CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE
CITY OF WINDSOR HEIGHTS, IOWA
Adopted June 15, 2026, by Ordinance No. 26-01
Prepared By:   Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
**** SUPPLEMENT RECORD ****
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date Subject
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date Subject
 
**** CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES ****
 
1.01 Title                  1.08 Amendments
1.02 Definitions            1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.03 City Powers            1.10 Altering Code
1.04 Indemnity              1.11 Severability
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.12 Right of Entry
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.13 General Standards for Action
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.14 Standard Penalty
 
1.01   TITLE.
   This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Windsor Heights, Iowa.
1.02   DEFINITIONS.
   Where words and phrases used in this Code are defined in the Code of Iowa,
such definitions apply to their use in this Code unless such construction would
be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision. Other words and phrases used herein have the
following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise in another portion of
this Code or unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest
intent of the Council or repugnant to the context of the provision:
   1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   2.   “City” means the city of Windsor Heights, Iowa.
   3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Windsor Heights, Iowa.
   4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code or a standard code adopted by reference).
   5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Windsor Heights, Iowa.
   6.   “Council” means the city council of Windsor Heights, Iowa.
   7.   “County” means Polk County, Iowa.
   8.   “IAC” means the Iowa Administrative Code.
   9.   “May” confers a power.
   10.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution, or motion.
   11.   “Must” states a requirement.
   12.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
   13.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Windsor Heights,
Iowa, as embodied in this Code, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance
adopting this Code, and those enacted hereafter.
   14.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust, or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
   15.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
   16.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
   17.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge
of the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   18.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
   19.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
   20.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code or by the Code of Iowa have their
ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with the
manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the provision.
1.03   CITY POWERS.
   The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if
not inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power
and perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the
rights, privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to
preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and
convenience of its residents, and each and every provision of this Code shall
be deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and the performance of
the foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04   INDEMNITY.
   The applicant for any permit or license under this Code, by making such
application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death of any person
or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property whatsoever,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising from or
related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the permit or
license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such applicant,
or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by or comply
with any of the provisions of this Code or the terms and conditions of such
permit or license, and such applicant, by making such application, forever
agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and employees, and
agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands, lawsuits, or
liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death, including all
costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing. The provisions
of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or license issued
under this Code or any other ordinance of the City, whether expressly recited
therein or not.
1.05   PERSONAL INJURIES.
   When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to
have been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person
by whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this Code, the rules of statutory construction as set
forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to ascertain the
intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term “statute” as used
therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term “ordinance” when applied
to this Code.
1.07   EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
   Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code, the provision shall be construed as authorizing
performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly authorized designee
of said officer or employee.
1.08   AMENDMENTS.
   All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code shall
include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or paragraph to
maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09   CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this Code, titles, headings
(chapter, section, and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references, and State
law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself, contained in
this Code, do not constitute any part of the law and are intended merely to
indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents of a section.
1.10   ALTERING CODE.
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions
or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages,
or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code in any manner that
will cause the law of the City to be misrepresented.
1.11   SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, provision, or part of this Code is adjudged invalid or
unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of this Code
as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof not adjudged invalid or
unconstitutional.
1.12   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   1.   Right of Entry. Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any
ordinance, or whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that there exists
an ordinance violation in any building or upon any premises within the
jurisdiction of the City, any authorized official of the City may, upon
presentation of proper credentials, enter such building or premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same and to perform any duty imposed upon such
official by ordinance; provided, except in emergencies, such official shall
first give the owner or occupant, if they can be located after reasonable
effort, 24-hour written notice of the authorized official’s intention to
inspect. In the event the owner or occupant refuses entry, the official is
empowered to seek assistance from any court of competent jurisdiction in
obtaining such entry.
   2.   Warrants. If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure,
or property pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having
the lawful right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to
enter upon or conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in
and for the County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an
administrative search warrant which is reasonable with respect to time and
scope. The presence or absence of law enforcement should be disclosed in the
application. The City shall notify the owner and occupant of the dwelling unit,
rooming unit, structure, building, or premises of the application for the
administrative search warrant by:
      A.   Posting such notice on the property to be inspected, and
      B.   Sending the notice via regular mail to the owner of record.
   The occupant of the dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure, building, or
premises shall have the opportunity to be heard at any hearing for an
administrative search warrant. No owner, operator, or occupant or any other
person having charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit,
structure, building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a
search warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.14)
1.13   GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
   Whenever this Code grants any discretionary power to the Council or any
commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does not specify
standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be exercised in
light of the following standard: the discretionary power to grant, deny, or
revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and circumstances
then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due consideration shall
be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and welfare, and the
decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under similar
circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14   STANDARD PENALTY.
   The doing of any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful, an offense, or a
misdemeanor by this Code or any technical code adopted in this Code by
reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by
this Code or any technical code adopted in this Code by reference is, unless
another penalty is specified, punishable by a fine in a sum not exceeding the
maximum punishable under State law for commission of a simple misdemeanor in
addition to applicable surcharges and costs. † 1
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3(2) and 903.1(1)(a))
 
Notes
1 †  EDITOR’S NOTE: For civil penalty for violations of this Code, see Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01   TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Windsor Heights,
Iowa. † 2
 
Notes
  †  EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 75-6 adopting a charter for the City was
2 passed and approved by the Council on September 15, 1975, and was published
  on September 16, 1975.
2.02   FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03   POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
   The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for staggered
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05   TERM OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06   COPIES ON FILE.
   The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the
official records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies
of the charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1(3))
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
3.01 Municipal Infraction    3.05 Alternative Relief
3.02 Environmental Violation 3.06 Alternative Penalties
3.03 Penalties               3.07 Habitual Offenders
3.04 Civil Citations
 
3.01   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
   A violation of this Code or any ordinance or code herein adopted by
reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by the
same, with the exception of those provisions specifically provided under State
law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious misdemeanor, or a
simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code of Iowa, is a
municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided herein. † 3
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22(3))
 
Notes
3 †  EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code, see
  Section 1.14.
3.02   ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
   A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of
Iowa or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the
Department of Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental
violation. However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable
until the City has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding
the violation or to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22(1))
   1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
   2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
   3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
3.03   PENALTIES.
A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22(1))
   1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
      A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00.
      B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00.
      Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a
repeat offense.
   2.   Special Civil Penalties.
      A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a
pretreatment standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an
industrial user is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each
day a violation exists or continues.
      B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
         (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
         (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the
time that the violation begins.
         (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
3.04   CIVIL CITATIONS.
   Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code may issue a civil
citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy of the citation
may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.305,
by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s last known mailing
address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the manner as provided
in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the conditions of Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be retained by the issuing
officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the Clerk of the District
Court. The citation shall serve as notification that a civil offense has been
committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22(4))
   1.   The name and address of the defendant.
   2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
   3.   The location and time of the infraction.
   4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
   5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
   6.   The time and place of court appearance.
   7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
   8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
   If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to
the condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local
housing regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or
safety violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District
Court, the City shall also file the citation in the office of the County
Treasurer.
3.05   ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22(9))
3.06   ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
   This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal
citation for a violation of this Code or regulation if criminal penalties are
also provided for the violation. Nor does it preclude or limit the authority of
the City to enforce the provisions of this Code by criminal sanctions or other
lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22(12))
3.07   HABITUAL OFFENDERS.
   For purposes of this section, “habitual offender” means any person that on
at least three occasions within a 12-month period has:
   1.   Received a citation, either civil or criminal, of a violation of this
Code; or
   2.   Has had abatement action initiated against any property the habitual
offender owns.
   It shall be a separate citable offense to be a habitual offender of this
Code. A habitual offender administrative fee, outlined in the Fee Schedule, may
be assessed for each citation above three issued to the same violator within
any 12-month period, which fee shall be in addition to any fine otherwise due
pursuant to this Code.
CHAPTER 4 
BOUNDARIES
 
4.01 Corporate Limits 4.02 Voting Precincts
 
4.01   CORPORATE LIMITS.
The corporate limits of the City are described as follows:
CITY OF WINDSOR HEIGHTS, IOWA
CORPORATE BOUNDARY
[A]   Commencing at the intersection of the centerline of Center Street and the
centerline of 63 rd Street (which point is the center of Sec. 2, T. 78N, R.
25W); thence northerly along the centerline of 63 rd Street (which line is the
east line of the NW¼ of Sec. 2, T. 78N, R. 25W) a distance of 3,150 feet, more
or less, to the centerline of University Avenue (which point is the NE corner
of the NW¼ of Sec. 2, T. 78N, R. 25W); thence westerly along the centerline of
University Avenue (which line is the south line of the SE¼ of Sec. 36, T. 79N,
R. 25W) a distance of 15 feet, more or less, to the centerline of 63 rd Street
(which point is 989.8 feet, more or less, east of the SW corner of the SE¼ of
Sec. 36, T. 79N, R. 25W); thence northerly along the centerline of 63 rd Street
a distance of 2,620 feet, more or less, to an extension to the east of the
centerline of College Avenue (which point is 992 feet, more or less, east of
the center of Sec. 36, T. 79N, R. 25W); thence east along an extension to the
east of the centerline of College Avenue (which line is the south line of the
NE¼ of Sec. 36, T. 79 N, R. 25 W) a distance of 8 feet, more or less, to the
centerline of 63 rd Street (which point is 1,000 feet east of the center of
Sec. 36, T. 79N, R. 25W); thence northerly along the centerline of 63 rd Street
a distance of 2,260 feet, more or less, to the south right-of-way line of
Hickman Road (which point is 33 feet east of the NE corner of Lot 1, SUBURBAN
FARMS, an Official Plat, and 33 feet south of the north line of the NE¼ of Sec.
36, T. 79N, R. 25W)[B] (the line between[A] and[B] being the common corporate
boundary line between the City of Windsor Heights and the City of Des Moines);
thence westerly along the south right-of-way line of Hickman Road (the location
of which line was established pursuant to a Joint Public Improvement Agreement
dated May 1, 1969, between the Iowa State Highway Commission and the City of
Windsor Heights, Iowa, identified as No. 68-P-175 in connection with Polk
County Project No. U-6-4(4)-40-77, which agreement is recorded in the office of
the Polk County Recorder in Book 4027, commencing at Page 601, as amended by
Amendment to Joint Public Improvement Agreement dated June 16, 1975, between
the same parties regarding the same project, which amendment is recorded in the
office of the Polk County Recorder in Book 4530, commencing at Page 663) in the
NE¼ of Sec. 36, T. 79N, R. 25W, the NW¼ of Sec. 36, T. 79N, R. 25W and the NE¼
of Sec. 35, T. 79N, R. 25W a distance of 6,216.9 feet, more or less, to the NW
corner of Lot 18, PLAZA HILLS PLAT 5, an Official Plat (which point is 74.1
feet south of the NW corner of the NE¼ of Sec. 35, T. 79N, R. 25W)[C]; thence
southerly along the west lines of PLAZA HILLS PLAT 5 and PLAZA HILLS PLAT 6, an
Official Plat (which line is the west line of the NE¼ of Sec. 35, T. 79N, R.
25W) a distance of 2,353.9 feet, more or less, to the northwest corner of Lot
135, PLAZA HILLS PLAT 5; thence easterly along the north lines of Lots 135 and
136, PLAZA HILLS PLAT 5, a distance of 342 feet, more or less, to the west
right-of-way line of College Drive (which point is the northeast corner of Lot
136, PLAZA HILLS PLAT 5); thence southerly along the west right-of-way line of
College Drive (which line is the east line of Lot 136, PLAZA HILLS PLAT 5) a
distance of 254 feet, more or less, to the north right-of-way line of Harbach
Boulevard (which point is the southeast corner of Lot 136, PLAZA HILLS PLAT 5);
thence easterly along an easterly extension of the north right-of-way line of
Harbach Boulevard a distance of 50 feet, more or less, to a point on the east
right-of-way line of College Drive (which point is on the west line of Lot 61,
PLAZA HILLS PLAT 5); thence southerly along the east right-of-way line of
College Drive (which line is the west line of Lot 61, PLAZA HILLS PLAT 5) a
distance of 33 feet, more or less, to the southwest corner of Lot 61, PLAZA
HILLS PLAT 5 (which point is on the south line of the NE¼ of Sec. 35, T. 79N,
R. 25W); thence easterly along the south lines of PLAZA HILLS PLAT 5 and PLAZA
HILLS PLAT 4, an Official Plat (which line is on the south line of the NE¼ of
Sec. 35, T. 79N, R. 25W) a distance of 1,577.5 feet, more or less, to the
northwest corner of PROGRESSO PLAT 10, an Official Plat; thence southerly along
the west lines of PLAT 10 and MOTT PLACE, an Official Plat, a distance of
2,410.5 feet, more or less, to the southwest corner of Lot 25, MOTT PLACE;
thence easterly along the south line of Lot 25, MOTT PLACE, a distance of 95
feet, more or less, to the northwest corner of Lot 27, MOTT PLACE; thence
southerly along the west line of Lot 27, MOTT PLACE, a distance of 208 feet,
more or less, to the north right-of-way line of University Avenue (which point
is the southwest corner of Lot 27, MOTT PLACE); thence easterly along the north
right-of-way line of University Avenue (which line is the south line of Lot 27,
MOTT PLACE) a distance of 8.5 feet, thence south 0° 00’ east a distance of 80.0
feet to the south right-of-way line of University Avenue; thence south 90° 0’
east along the south right-of-way line of University Avenue; (which line is 40
feet south of and parallel to the north line of Sec. 3, T. 78N, R. 25W) a
distance of 146.6 feet, to a point 40 feet south of and 21.9 feet east of the
NW corner of the NE¼ of the NE¼ of Sec. 3, T. 79N, R. 25W[D]; thence south 0°
00’ east a distance of 10 feet; thence north 90° 00’ east a distance of 22
feet; thence south 2° 18’ east, 40 feet west of and parallel to the centerline
of 73 rd Street, a distance of 117.5 feet; thence southerly 40.0 feet west of
and parallel to the centerline of 73 rd Street, along a curve concave westerly
with a radius of 1,100.57 feet and an internal angle of 10° 15’, with said
curve tangent to the preceding and following courses, a distance of 196.89
feet; thence south 7° 57’ west, 40 feet west of and parallel to the centerline
of 73 rd Street, a distance of 386 feet; thence south 6° 32’ west, 40 feet west
of and parallel to the centerline of 73 rd Street, a distance of 220 feet;
thence north 83° 28’ west, perpendicular to the centerline of 73 rd Street, a
distance of 28 feet; thence south 6° 32’ west, 40 feet west of and parallel to
the centerline of 73 rd Street, a distance of 300 feet, more or less, to the
northeasterly right-of-way line of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific
Railroad Company; (the line between[C] and[E] being the common corporate
boundary line between the City of Windsor Heights and the City of Clive) (the
line between[D] and[E] being the line which was established pursuant to an
Intergovernmental Corporation Boundary Agreement dated March 18, 1971, between
the City of Windsor Heights and the City of Clive, which agreement is recorded
in the office of the Polk County Recorder in Book 4198, commencing at Page 413,
and which agreement was legalized by Acts 1971 (64 G.A., 1st Sess.) ch. 284);
thence south 6° 32’ west, 40 feet west of and parallel to the centerline of 73
rd Street, a distance of 150 feet, more or less, to the southwesterly right-of-
way line of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company;
thence southerly and easterly along the west and south right-of-way lines of 73
rd Street (formerly Rancho Grande Boulevard) a distance of 293 feet, more or
less, to the northwest corner of RANCHO GRANDE, an Official Plat; thence
southerly along the west line of RANCHO GRANDE (which line is the west line of
the SE¼ of the NE¼ of Sec. 3, T. 78N, R. 25W) a distance of 1,003.7 feet, more
or less, to a point which is 415.5 feet north of the southwest corner of RANCHO
GRANDE[F]; thence southeasterly a distance of 55 feet, more or less, to a point
on the west line of Lot 13, RANCHO GRANDE, which point is 48 feet north of the
southwest corner of Lot 13, RANCHO GRANDE; thence southeasterly a distance of
180 feet, more or less, to the southeast corner of Lot 15, RANCHO GRANDE;
thence southeasterly a distance of 320 feet, more or less, to the northeast
corner of Lot 25, RANCHO GRANDE; thence southeasterly a distance of 65 feet,
more or less, to the northwest corner of Lot 26, RANCHO GRANDE; thence
southeasterly to a point on the south line of Lot 29, RANCHO GRANDE, which
point is 20 feet east of the southwest corner of Lot 29, RANCHO GRANDE[G] (the
line between[F] and[G] being the line which is the south right-of-way line of
Interstate Highway 235); thence east along the south line of RANCHO GRANDE, and
an extension thereof to the east, a distance of 614.4 feet, more or less, to
the centerline of Eighth Street (which point is 33 feet east of the southeast
corner of RANCHO GRANDE); thence northerly along the centerline of Eighth
Street (which is the east line of Sec. 3, T. 78N, R. 25W) a distance of 99.7
feet to the centerline of Center Street (which point is the southwest corner of
the NW¼ of Sec. 2, T. 78N, R. 25W); thence easterly along the centerline of
Center Street (which line is the south line of the NW¼ of Sec. 2, T. 78N, R.
25W) a distance of 977.5 feet to the east line of Lot 44, JANET’S WOODS, an
Official Plat[H] (the line between[E] and[H] being the common corporate
boundary line between the City of Windsor Heights and the City of West Des
Moines); thence easterly along the centerline of Center Street (which line is
the south line of the NW¼ of Sec. 2, T. 78N, R. 25W) a distance of 1,662.5
feet, more or less, to the point of beginning (the line between[H] and[A] being
the common corporate boundary line between the City of Windsor Heights and the
City of Des Moines).
Said boundaries may also be described as follows:
CITY OF WINDSOR HEIGHTS, IOWA
CORPORATE BOUNDARY
Commencing at the intersection of the centerline of Center Street and the
centerline of 63 rd Street; thence northerly along the centerline of 63 rd
Street a distance of 3,150 feet, more or less, to the centerline of University
Avenue; thence westerly along the centerline of University Avenue a distance of
15 feet, more or less, to the centerline of 63 rd Street; thence northerly
along the centerline of 63 rd Street a distance of 2,620 feet, more or less, to
an extension to the east of the centerline of College Avenue; thence east along
an extension to the east of the centerline of College Avenue a distance of 8
feet, more or less, to the centerline of 63 rd Street; thence northerly along
the centerline of 63 rd Street a distance of 2,260 feet, more or less, to the
south right-of-way line of Hickman Road; thence westerly along the south right-
of-way line of Hickman Road in the NE¼ of Sec. 36, T. 79N, R. 25W, the NW¼ of
Sec. 36, T. 79N, R. 25W and the NE¼ of Sec. 35, T. 79N, R. 25W a distance of
6,216.9 feet, more or less, to the NW corner of Lot 18, PLAZA HILLS PLAT 5, an
Official Plat; thence southerly along the west lines of PLAZA HILLS PLAT 5 and
PLAZA HILLS PLAT 6, an Official Plat a distance of 2,353.9 feet, more or less,
to the northwest corner of Lot 135, PLAZA HILLS PLAT 5; thence easterly along
the north lines of Lots 135 and 136, PLAZA HILLS PLAT 5, a distance of 342
feet, more or less, to the west right-of-way line of College Drive; thence
southerly along the west right-of-way line of College Drive a distance of 254
feet, more or less, to the north right-of-way line of Harbach Boulevard; thence
easterly along an easterly extension of the north right-of-way line of Harbach
Boulevard a distance of 50 feet, more or less, to a point on the east right-of-
way line of College Drive; thence southerly along the east right-of-way line of
College Drive a distance of 33 feet, more or less, to the southwest corner of
Lot 61, PLAZA HILLS PLAT 5; thence easterly along the south lines of PLAZA
HILLS PLAT 5 and PLAZA HILLS PLAT 4, an Official Plat a distance of 1,577.5
feet, more or less, to the northwest corner of PROGRESSO PLAT 10, an Official
Plat; thence southerly along the west lines of PROGRESSO PLAT 10 and MOTT
PLACE, an Official Plat, a distance of 2,410.5 feet, more or less, to the
southwest corner of Lot 25, MOTT PLACE; thence easterly along the south line of
Lot 25, MOTT PLACE, a distance of 95 feet, more or less, to the northwest
corner of Lot 27, MOTT PLACE; thence southerly along the west line of Lot 27,
MOTT PLACE, a distance of 208 feet, more or less, to the north right-of-way
line of University Avenue; thence easterly along the north right-of-way line of
University Avenue a distance of 8.5 feet; thence south 00º 00’ east a distance
of 80.0 feet to the south right-of-way line of University Avenue; thence south
90° 00’ east along the south right-of-way line of University Avenue a distance
of 146.6 feet, to a point 40 feet south of and 21.9 feet east of the NW corner
of the NE¼ of the NE¼ of Sec. 3, T. 78N, R. 25W; thence south 0° 00’ east a
distance of 10 feet; thence north 90° 00’ east a distance of 22 feet; thence
south 2° 18’ east, 40 feet west of and parallel to the centerline of 73 rd
Street, a distance of 117.5 feet; thence southerly, 40.0 feet west of and
parallel to the centerline of 73 rd Street, along a curve concave westerly with
a radius of 1,100.57 feet and an internal angle of 10° 15’, with said curve
tangent to the preceding and following courses, a distance of 196.89 feet;
thence south 7° 57’ west, 40 feet west of and parallel to the centerline of 73
rd Street, a distance of 386 feet; thence south 6° 32’ west, 40 feet west of
and parallel to the centerline of 73 rd Street, a distance of 220 feet; thence
north 83°28’ west, perpendicular to the centerline of 73 rd Street, a distance
of 28 feet; thence south 6° 32’ west, 40 feet west of and parallel to the
centerline of 73 rd Street, a distance of 300 feet, more or less, to the
northeasterly right-of-way line of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific
Railroad Company; thence south 6° 32’ west, 40 feet west of and parallel to the
centerline of 73 rd Street, a distance of 150 feet, more or less, to the
southwesterly right-of-way line of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific
Railroad Company; thence southerly and easterly along the west and south right-
of-way lines of 73 rd Street a distance of 293 feet, more or less, to the
northwest corner of RANCHO GRANDE, an Official Plat; thence southerly along the
west line of RANCHO GRANDE a distance of 1,003.7 feet, more or less, to a point
which is 415.5 feet north of the southwest corner of RANCHO GRANDE; thence
southeasterly a distance of 55 feet, more or less, to a point on the west line
of Lot 13, RANCHO GRANDE, which point is 48 feet north of the southwest corner
of Lot 13, RANCHO GRANDE; thence southeasterly a distance of 180 feet, more or
less, to the southeast corner of Lot 15, RANCHO GRANDE; thence southeasterly a
distance of 320 feet, more or less, to the northeast corner of Lot 25, RANCHO
GRANDE; thence southeasterly a distance of 65 feet, more or less, to the
northwest corner of Lot 26, RANCHO GRANDE; thence southeasterly to a point on
the south line of Lot 29, RANCHO GRANDE, which point is 20 feet east of the
southwest corner of Lot 29, RANCHO GRANDE; thence east along the south line of
RANCHO GRANDE, and an extension thereof to the east, a distance of 614.4 feet,
more or less, to the centerline of Eighth Street; thence northerly along the
centerline of Eighth Street a distance of 99.7 feet to the centerline of Center
Street; thence easterly along the centerline of Center Street a distance of
977.5 feet to the east line of Lot 44, JANET’S WOODS, an Official Plat; thence
easterly along the centerline of Center Street a distance of 1,662.5 feet, more
or less, to the point of beginning.
4.02   VOTING PRECINCTS.
   There are two election precincts, known as Windsor Heights 1 and Windsor
Heights 2, within the corporate limits of the City for all purposes under the
laws of the United States and the State.
   1.   Boundaries – Windsor Heights 1. The boundaries of the voting precinct
known as Windsor Heights 1 are as follows:
Commencing at the western boundary line and the south right-of-way line of
Hickman Road;
thence extending east along the south right-of-way line of Hickman Road;
thence south along the east boundary line of Lot 1 through 13, Wilshire Manor;
thence south along the east boundary line of Lot 401 through 411, Progresso
Plat No 9;
thence south along the east boundary line of Lot 254, Progresso Plat No 7;
thence south along the east boundary line of Lot 224, Progresso Plat No 7;
thence south along the east boundary line of Lot 223, Progresso Plat No 6;
thence south along the east boundary line of Lot 194, Progresso Plat No 6;
thence south along the east boundary line of Lot 167 and 168, Progresso Plat No
5;
thence south along the east boundary line of Lot 131, Progresso Plat No 4;
thence south along the east boundary line of Lot 137, Progresso Plat No 4;
thence south along the east boundary line of Lot 1, Mott Plat;
thence south along the east boundary line of Lot 97, Mott Plat;
thence south along the east boundary line of Lot 83 and 84, Mott Plat;
thence south along the east boundary line of Lot 69 and 70, Mott Plat;
thence south along the east boundary line of Lot 55 and 56, Mott Plat;
thence south along the east boundary line of Lot 41 and 42, Mott Plat;
thence west along the centerline of University Avenue;
thence south along the east line of Sec 3-78-25 extending to the centerline of
Center Street;
thence west along the centerline of Center Street to the corporate boundary
line;
thence following the corporate boundary line south, west, and north to the
point of beginning.
   2.   Boundaries – Windsor Heights 2. The boundaries of the voting precinct
known as Windsor Heights 2 are as follows:
Commencing at the west boundary line of Lot 9, Suburban Knolls Plat 2 line
extended and the south right-of-way line of Hickman Road;
thence east along the south right-of-way line of Hickman Road to the centerline
of 63 rd Street;
thence south along the centerline of 63rd Street to the centerline of Center
Street;
thence west along the centerline of Center Street;
thence north along the east line of Sec 3-78-25 extending to the centerline of
University Avenue;
thence east along the centerline of University Avenue;
thence north along the east boundary line of Lot 41 and 42, Mott Plat;
thence north along the east boundary line of Lot 55 and 56, Mott Plat;
thence north along the east boundary line of Lot 69 and 70, Mott Plat;
thence north along the east boundary line of Lot 83 and 84, Mott Plat;
thence north along the east boundary line of Lot 97, Mott Plat;
thence north along the east boundary line of Lot 1, Mott Plat;
thence north along the east boundary line of Lot 137, Progresso Plat No 4;
thence north along the east boundary line of Lot 131, Progresso Plat No 4;
thence north along the east boundary line of 167 and 168, Progresso Plat No 5
Lot;
thence north along the east boundary line of Lot 194, Progresso Plat No 6;
thence north along the east boundary line of Lot 223, Progresso Plat No 6;
thence north along the east boundary line of Lot 224, Progresso Plat No 7;
thence north along the east boundary line of Lot 254, Progresso Plat No 7;
thence north along the east boundary line of Lot 401 through 411, Progresso
Plat No 9;
thence north along the east boundary line of Lot 1 through 13, Wilshire Manor
to the point of beginning.
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01 Oaths                               5.08 Conflict of Interest
5.02 Bonds                               5.09 Resignations
5.03 Powers and Duties                   5.10 Removal of Appointed Officers and
                                         Employees
5.04 General Responsibility of Appointed 5.11 Vacancies
Officers
5.05 Books and Records                   5.12 Gifts
5.06 Transfer to Successor               5.13 Duty to Defend
5.07 Meetings
 
5.01   OATHS.
The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Qualify for Office. All elected officers and the following appointed
officers shall qualify for office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving,
when required, a bond:
      A.   City Administrator.
      B.   Clerk.
      C.   Deputy City Clerk.
      D.   Police Officers.
      E.   Fire Chief.
   2.   The oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after being certified as
elected or appointed but not later than 12:00 p.m. of the first day, which is
not a Sunday or a legal holiday, in January of the first year of the term for
which the officer was elected or appointed.
   3.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in
Windsor Heights as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
5.02   BONDS.
Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
   1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable except as allowed in Subsection 5.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
   2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
   3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be
filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23(6))
   4.   Record. The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24(1)(a))
   5.   Insurance Policy in Lieu of Bond. In lieu of a bond, a public officer
required to obtain a bond pursuant to Chapter 64 of the Code of Iowa may obtain
an insurance policy in an amount not less than the amounts required of a bond.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.3)
5.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code, or as otherwise directed by the Council unless
contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
5.04   GENERAL RESPONSIBILITY OF APPOINTED OFFICERS.
   The responsibility of appointed officers is as follows:
   1.   Council. The Mayor Pro Tem, City Administrator, City Attorney, and City
Engineer shall be directly responsible to the Council.
   2.   City Administrator. All other appointed officers shall be directly
responsible to the City Administrator.
   3.   Appointed Officers. All appointed officers shall be directly
responsible for employees of the City under their direct control and
supervision.
5.05   BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open
to examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 and 22.3A)
5.06   TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
   Each officer shall transfer to their successor in office all books, papers,
records, documents, and property in the officer’s custody and appertaining to
that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
5.07   MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
   1.   Definitions. The following terms are defined for use in this section.
      A.   “Closed session” means a meeting to which all members of the public
do not have access as allowed by Section 21.5 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   “Hybrid meeting” means a meeting involving both remote participation
and in-person participation by members.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(a))
      C.   “Open session” means a meeting to which all members of the public
have access.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.2(3))
      D.   “Remote participation” means real-time participation by a remotely
located individual in a meeting which is being held in a different physical
location using integrated audio, video, and other digital tools.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(b))
      E.   “Reasonable notice” means advising the news media who have filed a
request for notice with the governmental body and posting the notice on a
bulletin board or other prominent place which is easily accessible to the
public and clearly designated for that purpose at the principal office of the
body holding the meeting, or if not such office exists, at the building in
which the meeting is to be held.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4(1))
      F.   “Teleconference participation” means participation using audio
conference tools involving multiple participants in at least two separate
locations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(c))
      G.   “Virtual meeting” means a meeting involving real-time interaction
using integrated audio, video, and other digital tools, in which participants
do not share a physical location.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(d))
   2.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice, as defined by State law, of the
time, date, and place of each meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
   3.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   4.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time
and place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The
minutes shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   5.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote
of either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting
and in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
   6.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices
at any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
   7.   Electronic Meetings. A governmental body shall provide for hybrid
meetings, teleconference participation, virtual meetings, remote participation,
and other hybrid options for the members of the governmental body to
participate in official meetings. A governmental body conducting a meeting
pursuant to this subsection shall comply with all of the provisions of Chapter
21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
5.08 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect,
in any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services
to be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
   1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer, volunteer firefighter as defined in Section 85.61 of the Code of Iowa,
emergency medical care provider as defined in Section 147A.1 of the Code of
Iowa, or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding of
which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law. This subsection shall not be construed to prohibit nominal stipends,
compensation, incentives, or benefits for volunteer firefighters or emergency
medical care providers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(a))
   2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(b))
   3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(c))
   4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in Subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(e))
   5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(f))
   6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has
an interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee
was elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(g))
   7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(h))
   8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(i))
   9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(d))
   10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this
section, for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or
employee, if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a
cumulative total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(j))
   11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a
utility and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential
City utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(k))
   12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(l))
5.09   RESIGNATIONS.
   An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a
resignation in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and
considered. A person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for
appointment to the same office during the time for which the person was elected
if, during that time, the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(9))
5.10   REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall be sent
by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with the Clerk
within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a public
hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal. The
hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed unless
the person removed requests a later date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.11   VACANCIES.
   A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled
in accordance with Section 372.13(2) of the Code of Iowa.
5.12   GIFTS.
   Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
5.13   DUTY TO DEFEND.
   The City shall defend any of its officers, employees, and agents, whether
elected or appointed, and shall save harmless and indemnify the officers and
employees against any tort claim or demand, whether groundless or otherwise,
arising out of an alleged act or omission occurring within the scope of their
employment or duties. However, the duty to save harmless and indemnify does not
apply to awards of punitive damages. The exception for punitive damages does
not prohibit the City from purchasing insurance to protect its officers and
employees from punitive damages. The duty to save harmless and indemnify does
not apply and the City is entitled to restitution by an officer or employee if,
in an action commenced by the City against the officer or employee, it is
determined that the conduct of the officer or employee upon which the tort
claim or demand was based constituted a willful and wanton act or omission. Any
independent or autonomous board or commission of the City having authority to
disburse funds for a particular City function without approval of the Council
shall similarly defend, save harmless, and indemnify its officers and employees
against tort claims or demands. The duty to defend, save harmless, and
indemnify shall apply whether or not the City is a party to the action and
shall include, but not be limited, cases arising under Title 42 of the United
States Code. In the event the officer or employee fails to cooperate in the
defense against the claim or demand, the City shall have a right of
indemnification against that officer or employee.
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to Be Used 6.04 Preparation of Petition and Affidavit
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.05 Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals;
                                  Objections
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
 
6.01   NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
   All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02   NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
   Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 25 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03   ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
   The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04   PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
   Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy.
The petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5, and 45.6)
6.05   FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.
   The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of
validity thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the
effect of such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of
such petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by
the appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06   PERSONS ELECTED.
   The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on
the ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8(3))
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose         7.05 Operating Budget Preparation
7.02 Finance Officer 7.06 Budget Amendments
7.03 Cash Control    7.07 Accounting
7.04 Fund Control    7.08 Financial Reports
 
7.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules
and regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02   FINANCE OFFICER.
   The Finance Director is the finance and accounting officer of the City and
is responsible for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03   CASH CONTROL.
   To ensure the proper accounting and safe custody of monies the following
shall apply:
   1.   Deposit of Funds. All monies or fees collected for any purpose by any
City officer shall be deposited through the office of the Finance officer. If
any said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive.
   2.   Deposits and Investments. All monies belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, and 12C.1)
7.04   FUND CONTROL.
   There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Revenues. All monies received by the City shall be credited to the
proper fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
   2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
   3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(545 IAC 2.5(2))
   4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
monies may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5(3))
   5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited
by State law, monies may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5(4))
   6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits, liabilities, and the related
deferred inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of
resources, in excess of:
      A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
      B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(545 IAC 2.5(5))
   7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of
each month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05   OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
   The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
   1.   Proposal Prepared. The finance officer is responsible for preparation
of the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption
by the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
   2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other
administrative agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and
administer budgets must submit their budget proposals to the finance officer
for inclusion in the proposed City budget at such time and in such form as
required by the Council.
   3.   Submission to Council. The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
   4.   Annual Statement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 24.2A(2))
      A.   On or before 4:00 p.m. on March 5 of each year, the City shall file,
with the Department of Management, a report containing all necessary
information for the Department of Management to compile and calculate amounts
required to be included in the statement mailed under Paragraph B.
      B.   Not later than March 15, the County Auditor, using information
compiled and calculated by the Department of Management shall send to each
property owner or taxpayer within the County, by regular mail, an individual
statement containing all of the required information as provided under Section
24.2(2)(B)(1-10) of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the report
required under Paragraph A, the statements to be mailed under Paragraph B, and
the public hearing notice required under Paragraph D.
      D.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
City’s proposed property tax amount for the budget year and the City’s
information included in the statements under Paragraph B.
      The proposed property tax hearing shall be set on a date on or after
March 20 of the budget year immediately preceding the budget year for which the
tax is being proposed. At the hearing, the Council shall receive oral or
written testimony from any resident or property owner of the City. This public
hearing shall be separate from any other meeting of the Council, including any
other meeting or public hearing relating to the City’s budget, and other
business of the City that is not related to the proposed property tax amounts
and the information in the statements shall not be conducted at the public
hearing. After all testimony has been received and considered, the governing
body may decrease, but not increase the proposed property tax amount to be
included in the City’s budget.
         (1)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published not less than
four or more than 20 days in a newspaper published at least once weekly and
having general circulation in the City. However, if the City has a population
of 200 or less, publication may be made by posting in three public places in
the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 24.2A(4)(b)(2))
         (2)   Notice of the hearing shall also be posted and clearly
identified on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning on the date
of the newspaper publication and shall be maintained on the City’s internet
site with all such prior year notices.
         (3)   Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on
one or more social media applications, the public hearing notice or an
electronic link to the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such
account on a date no later than the date of publication of the notice.
         (4)   Failure of a newspaper to publish a required notice under this
paragraph shall not be considered a failure of a political subdivision to
provide required notice under this paragraph if all of the following conditions
are met:
            a.   Notice of the public hearing was provided to each property
owner and each taxpayer within the political subdivision in statements required
under Section 24.2A(2)(b) of the Code of Iowa.
            b.   The political subdivision can demonstrate to the County
Auditor that the political subdivision provided sufficient time for the
newspaper to publish the notice.
   5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may
make any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
   6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until completion of requirements,
of Subsection 4 of this section, the Council shall set a time and place for
public hearing on the budget to be held before April 30 and shall publish
notice of the hearing not less than four or more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice. Proof of publication of the notice under this
subsection must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16(3))
   7.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that
the budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days
before the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number
of copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and Clerk and have a copy posted at one of the places designated for the
posting of notices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16(2))
   8.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt,
by resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk shall
certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County Auditor
and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy certified may be less than,
but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget submitted at the
final hearing, unless an additional tax levy is approved at a City election.
Two copies each of the detailed budget as adopted and of the tax certificate
must be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16(5))
7.06   BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
   A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes
effective July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and
purpose specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
   1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(545 IAC 2.2)
   2.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(545 IAC 2.3)
   3.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(545 IAC 2.4)
   4.   Administrative Transfers. The finance officer shall have the authority
to adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
(545 IAC 2.4)
7.07   ACCOUNTING.
   The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
   1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained
books of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
   2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general
ledger controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
   3.   Checks. Two signatures are required on all City checks. Checks shall be
prenumbered and signed by any two of the following: Finance Director, City
Administrator, Clerk, Deputy City Clerk, Mayor, or Mayor Pro Tem, following
Council approval, except as provided by Subsection 5 of this section.
   4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates, and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
   5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize
the Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which if not
paid promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment or
additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment. The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include (but is
not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll, and
bond principal and interest.
7.08   FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
   1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
   2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. The Annual Financial Report shall be
prepared on forms and pursuant to instructions prescribed by the Auditor of
State. Beginning with the Annual Financial Report published by December 1,
2025, each report shall include a list of bonds, notes, or other obligations
issued by the City during the most recently completed fiscal year, and the
applicable lists for other fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 2024, for
which obligations remain unpaid, payable from any source, including the amount
of the issuance, the project or purpose of the issuance, whether the issuance
was approved at election, eligible to be subject to a petition for an election,
or was exempt from approval at election as the result of statutory exclusions
based on population of the City or amount of the issuance, and identification
of issuances from the fiscal year or prior fiscal years related to the same
project or purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
CHAPTER 9
HOTEL - MOTEL TAX
 
9.01 Definitions 9.03 Tax Exemption
9.02 Tax Imposed 9.04 Collection and Use
 
9.01   DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a
different intention, the following terms have, for the purpose of this chapter,
the following meanings:
   1.   “Extended stay hotel or motel” means any structure consisting of one or
more buildings, with more than five specific dwelling units with provisions for
living, eating, contain kitchen facilities for food preparation including, but
not limited to, refrigerators, stoves, and ovens, sanitation, separate bathroom
and kitchen sink, and sleeping in each unit, that is specifically constructed,
kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public to be a place
where temporary residence is offered for pay to persons, for a minimum stay of
more than 30 days and a maximum stay of 10 months within the dwelling units at
the structure, that is approved pursuant to a valid Certificate of Occupancy
issued by the Building Official having jurisdiction as having all of the
required dwelling unit features, and for which such valid Certificate of
Occupancy indicates the specific rooms within the structure that can be used as
dwelling units, and that is approved by the Fire Marshal for extended stay
temporary residence purposes. Each room shall be a minimum of 275 square feet
in area, exclusive of bathroom, closet, or balcony space. Weekly services for
each dwelling unit of linen change, towel change, soap change, general cleanup,
and a registration lobby staffed on a 12-hour daily basis and 24-hour daily
registration and emergency phone number are provided by the management. Each
extended stay dwelling unit and facilities are subject to the City’s rental
inspection outlined in Chapter 156 (Rental Housing Code). For the purposes of
parking requirements, extended stay hotels or motels will have to meet the
multi-family residential parking requirements.
   2.   “Hotel” means one or more buildings containing 20 or more guest rooms,
with such rooms being designed or intended to be used, or which are used as
temporary or overnight accommodations for guests in which daily services of
linen change, central telephone switchboard, towel change, soap change, general
cleanup, and a registration lobby staffed on a 24-hour daily basis are provided
by the management. Each room shall be a minimum of 250 square feet in area,
exclusive of bathroom, closet, or balcony space. No room may be used by the
same person or persons for a period exceeding 30 days per year. Access to all
rooms shall be provided through one or more common entrances. Accessory uses
are encouraged and permitted accessory uses include restaurants, cocktail
lounges, banquet halls, ballrooms, or meeting rooms.
   3.   “Lodging” means rooms, apartments, or sleeping quarters in a hotel,
motel, inn, public lodging house, rooming house, extended stay hotel or motel,
or manufactured or mobile home which is tangible personal property, or in a
tourist court, or in any place where sleeping accommodations are furnished to
transient guests for rent, whether with or without meals. Lodging does not
include rooms that are not used for sleeping accommodations.
   4.   “Motel” means a building or group of buildings containing dwelling
units, intended to be used or which are used as temporary or overnight
accommodations for guests, in which daily services of linen change, central
telephone switchboard, towel change, soap change, general cleanup, and a
registration lobby staffed on a 12-hour daily basis and 24-hour daily
registration and emergency phone number are provided by the management. Each
room shall be a minimum of 250 square feet in area, exclusive of bathroom,
closet, or balcony space. No room may be used by the same person or persons for
a period exceeding 30 days per year. Each living or sleeping unit shall have an
individual entrance from outside the building. Living or sleeping units may be
equipped with cooking facilities. Parking close to the entrance of each living
or sleeping unit should be made available.
   5.   “Renting” or “rent” means a transfer of possession or control of
lodging for a fixed or indeterminate term for consideration and includes any
kind of direct or indirect charge for such lodging or its use.
   6.   “Sales price” means the consideration for renting of lodging and means
the same as the term is defined in Section 423.1 of the Code of Iowa.
   All other words and phrases used in this chapter have the meaning provided
by this Code or, if unavailable, by Section 423.1 of the Code of Iowa.
9.02   TAX IMPOSED.
   There is hereby imposed a seven percent local hotel and motel tax upon the
sales price from the renting of lodging within the City.
9.03   TAX EXEMPTION.
   There is exempted from the provisions of this chapter and from the
computation of any amount of tax imposed by Section 9.02, all of the following:
   1.   The sales price from the renting of lodging which is rented by the same
person for a period of more than 31 consecutive days.
   2.   The sales price of lodging furnished to the guests of a religious
institution if the property is exempt under Section 427.1(8) of the Code of
Iowa, and the purpose of renting is to provide a place for a religious retreat
or function and not a place for transient guests generally.
   3.   The sales price from the renting of sleeping rooms in dormitories and
in memorial unions at all universities and colleges located in the City.
   4.   Pursuant to Section 427.1 of the Code of Iowa, the sales price of
lodging furnished to the guests of eligible religious institution if the
purpose of renting is to provide a place for a religious retreat or function
and not a place for transient guests generally.
   5.   The sales price of lodging furnished to the guests of a nonprofit
lodging provider and the purpose of renting is to provide a place for the
friends and family of a hospital patient during a time of medical need of the
patient and the length of stay is based upon the needs of the friends, family,
or patient. For purposes of this subsection, “nonprofit lodging provider” means
a nonprofit entity which is exempt from federal income taxation pursuant to
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code that maintains an established
facility that provides lodging to friends and family of a hospital patient
during a time of medical need of the patient.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 423A.5)
9.04   COLLECTION AND USE.
   The tax imposed in this chapter shall be remitted by the person or company
liable for same to the State Director of Revenue in the manner required by
State law, and the proceeds of such tax shall be used for the purposes stated
in Section 423A.7(4) of the Code of Iowa, to-wit:
   1.   The revenue derived from any hotel and motel tax authorized by the Code
of Iowa, Section 423A.4, shall be used as follows:
      A.   Each County or City which levies the tax shall spend at least 50
percent of the revenues derived therefrom for the acquisition of sites for, or
constructing, improving, enlarging, equipping, repairing, operating, or
maintaining of recreation, convention, cultural, or entertainment facilities
including, but not limited to, memorial buildings, halls, and monuments, civic
center convention buildings, auditoriums, coliseums, and parking areas or
facilities located at those recreation, convention, cultural, or entertainment
facilities or the payment of principal and interest, when due, on bonds or
other evidence of indebtedness issued by the County or City for those
recreation, convention, cultural, or entertainment facilities; or for the
promotion and encouragement of tourist and convention business in the city or
county and surrounding areas.
      B.   The remaining revenues may be spent by the City or County which
levies the tax for any City or County operations authorized by law as a proper
purpose for the expenditure within statutory limitations of city or county
revenues derived from ad valorem taxes.
      C.   Any city or county which levies and collects the local hotel and
motel tax authorized by Section 423A.4 of the Code of Iowa, may pledge
irrevocably an amount of the revenues derived therefrom for each of the years
the bonds remain outstanding to the payment of bonds which the City or County
may issue for one or more of the purposes set forth in paragraph a. Any revenue
pledged to the payment of such bonds may be credited to the spending
requirement of Paragraph A.
CHAPTER 10
URBAN RENEWAL
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED NAME OF AREA
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED          NAME OF AREA
16-10         November 7, 2016 Second Amended and Restated Urban Renewal Area
 
CHAPTER 11
URBAN REVITALIZATION
 
11.01 Purpose                    11.03 Designation of Revitalization Area
11.02 2018 Windsor Heights Urban
Revitalization Area
 
11.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to designate an area of the City as a
revitalization area upon the completion of procedures specified in Chapter 404
of the Code of Iowa.
11.02   2018 WINDSOR HEIGHTS URBAN REVITALIZATION AREA.
   The Council of the City of Windsor Heights, Iowa (the “City”) has, by
resolution, determined, with respect to an area within the City, and known as
the 2018 Windsor Heights Urban Revitalization Area, that:
   1.   The 2018 Windsor Heights Urban Revitalization Area is an area which is
appropriate as an economic development area as defined in Section 403.17 of the
Code of Iowa.
   2.   The 2018 Windsor Heights Urban Revitalization Area is an area which is
appropriate for public improvements related to housing and residential
development or construction of housing and residential development, including
single, family, and multifamily housing.
   3.   The economic development and promotion of housing and residential
development in the 2018 Windsor Heights Urban Revitalization Area is necessary
in the interest of the public welfare of the residents of the City and the 2018
Windsor Heights Urban Revitalization Area substantially meets the criteria set
forth in Section 404.1 of the Code of Iowa.
11.03   DESIGNATION OF REVITALIZATION AREA.
   In accordance with the Code of Iowa and in consideration of the recitations
set out in the preamble hereof, such property lying within the City and being
described as follows:
All real property situated within the incorporated municipal limits of the City
of Windsor Heights, Polk County, State of Iowa as of November 1, 2018.
is hereby designated as the 2018 Windsor Heights Urban Revitalization Area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fe49705f464a1b7c95ad75b2e720813156ca7ea7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-26.png]
 
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01 Term of Office    15.04 Compensation
15.02 Powers and Duties 15.05 Voting
15.03 Appointments
 
15.01   TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
   1.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the City
and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the City,
except for supervisory duties delegated to the City Administrator, give
direction to department heads concerning the functions of the departments, and
have the power to examine all functions of the municipal departments, their
records and to call for special reports from department heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14(1))
   2.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the police
and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor has all
the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14(2))
   3.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14(1))
   4.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance, amendment,
or resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an ordinance,
amendment, or resolution within 14 days after passage. The Mayor shall explain
the reasons for the veto in a written message to the Council at the time of the
veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 and 380.6(2))
   5.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council as
required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
   6.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered
into in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the
City where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law,
ordinance, or Council direction.
   7.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on behalf
of the City.
   8.   Professional Services. Upon order of the Council, secure for the City
such specialized and professional services not already available to the City.
In executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with
this Code and the laws of the State.
   9.   Licenses and Permits. Sign all licenses and permits that have been
granted by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be
issued by another municipal officer.
   10.   Nuisances. Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
   11.   Absentee Officer. Make appropriate provision that duties of any
absentee officer be carried on during such absence.
15.03   APPOINTMENTS.
   1.   The Mayor shall appoint the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
      A.   Mayor Pro Tem.
   2.   The following appointments shall be made by the Mayor with Council
approval:
      A.   Police Chief.
15.04   COMPENSATION.
   Beginning with calendar year 2008, the annual salary of the Mayor is
$7,000.00. Each calendar year the Mayor’s compensation amount is increased by a
percentage equal to the increase in the Midwest Consumer Price Index (CPI) for
the calendar year immediately preceding the increase in compensation, rounded
to the closest $100.00. If there is no increase in the Midwest CPI in a given
year, the Mayor’s compensation remains the same in the subsequent year.
15.05   VOTING.
   The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01 Vice President of Council 16.03 Voting Rights
16.02 Powers and Duties         16.04 Compensation
 
16.01   VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
   The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14(3))
16.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem
shall perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the
Mayor to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the
Mayor Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from
employment officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint,
employ, or discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14(3))
16.03   VOTING RIGHTS.
   The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14(3))
16.04   COMPENSATION.
   If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(8))
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01 Number and Term of Council 17.05 Appointments
17.02 Powers and Duties          17.06 Compensation
17.03 Exercise of Power          17.07 Expectations
17.04 Council Meetings
 
17.01   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
   The Council consists of five Council members elected at large for staggered
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 and 376.2)
17.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
   1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2(1))
   2.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all
funds, and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls, and claims, and order
payment thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers, and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2(1), 384.16, and 384.38(1))
   3.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2(1))
   4.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 26)
   5.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number,
duties, term of office, and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise
provided for by State law or the Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
   6.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council
shall prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other
elected City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not
become effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the
Council shall not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any
elected officer during the months of November and December in the year of a
regular City election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes
effective for all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council
members elected at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(8))
17.03   EXERCISE OF POWER.
   The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3(1))
   1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
   2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6(2))
   3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become
effective in one of the following ways:
      A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6(1)(a))
      B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6(1)(b))
      C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6(1)(c))
      D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment, or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6(2))
      E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment, or
resolution, a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage,
and an ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of
the ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of
passage, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6(3))
“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the Council
including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent but does not
include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1(a))
17.04   COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section 5.06.
Additional particulars relating to Council meetings are the following:
   1.   Regular Meetings. The time and place of the regular meetings of the
Council shall be fixed by resolution of the Council.
   2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor
or upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(5))
   3.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(1))
   4.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and
maintain records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(5))
   5.   Compelling Attendance. Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at once.
   6.   Rules of Conduct. The following rules are hereby adopted for the
conduct of those attending regular and special meetings of the Council in the
Council Chamber in the City Hall:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
      A.   No person shall be permitted to stand in the Council Chamber during
Council sessions between the audience seats and the Council members except the
persons addressing the Council, who shall do so from the speaker’s stand, and
except City officials and employees on City business.
      B.   No person shall enter the raised area at the east and west ends of
the Council table except upon invitation of the Council or a member thereof,
and except City officials and employees on City business.
      C.   Citizen comments shall be allowed during public hearings and during
public forum, if provided by the Council. Any person desiring to address the
Council may do so when recognized by the presiding officer, but the Council
reserves the right to limit the speaker’s time and the order in which speakers
may address the Council. The public forum is an opportunity to address matters
not on the Council agenda. While the Council may take comments into
consideration, it is not intended for discussion or dialogue.
      D.   No person shall be interrupted while addressing the Council except
by a member of the Council.
      E.   No member of the public shall be permitted to sit or lean upon the
Council table during sessions of the Council.
      F.   No person shall use unreasonably loud or abusive language or any
other language in the Council Chamber which disrupts or is intended to disrupt
the peace, quiet, and good order of a Council meeting.
      G.   Those having business before the Council shall have the right to
speak to items as they appear on the Council agenda, subject to the foregoing
constraints; those wishing to address matters not on the Council agenda must
wait until the agenda is completed and until recognized to speak by the
presiding officer.
      H.   Any person violating any of the foregoing rules shall be guilty of
disorderly conduct and disturbing a public assembly and, upon conviction, shall
pay a fine of not less than $25.00 or more than $50.00.
      I.   The Police Chief shall enforce the provisions of this section and
upon request, shall provide sufficient officers therefor.
17.05   APPOINTMENTS.
   The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their
powers, duties, compensation, and term of office:
   1.   City Clerk.
   2.   City Attorney.
   3.   City Administrator.
   4.   Finance Director.
   5.   Public Works Director
   6.   Planning and Zoning Commission.
   7.   Zoning Board of Adjustment.
17.06   COMPENSATION.
   Beginning with calendar year 2008, each member of the Council is paid as
compensation the sum of $51.00 for each meeting of the Council which they
attend, plus the sum of $584.00 for each calendar quarter. Each calendar year,
the compensation amount is increased by a percentage equal to the increase in
the Midwest Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the calendar year immediately
preceding the increase in compensation. Meeting pay is rounded up to the
closest one dollar. Quarterly pay is rounded to the closest $10.00. If there is
no increase in the Midwest CPI in a given year, then the Council compensation
shall remain the same in the subsequent year.
17.07   EXPECTATIONS.
   A Council member is expected to be dedicated to the concepts of effective
and democratic local government by responsible elected officials. Additionally,
the following ethical expectations are set forth. A Council member will:
   1.   Affirm the dignity and worth of the services rendered by government and
maintain a constructive, creative, and practical attitude toward local
government affairs and a deep sense of social responsibility as a trusted
public servant;
   2.   Be dedicated to the highest ideals of honor and integrity in all public
and personal relationships in order that the member may merit the respect and
confidence of the other officials and of the general public;
   3.   Recognize that the chief function of local government at all times is
to serve the best interests and greater good of all people;
   4.   Keep the community informed on local government affairs; encourage
communication between the citizens and all local government officers; emphasize
friendly and courteous service to the public; and seek to improve the quality
and image of public service;
   5.   Handle all matters of personnel on the basis of merit so that fairness
and impartiality govern decisions, pertaining to appointments and pay
adjustments;
   6.   Keep confidential all employee records and any other information that
is not yet available to the general public;
   7.   Seek no personal favor and seek no favors for those with whom the
Council member has a personal relationship.
CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.08 Records
18.02 Powers and Duties: General   18.09 Attendance at Meetings
18.03 Publication of Minutes       18.10 Licenses and Permits
18.04 Recording Measures           18.11 Notification of Appointments
18.05 Other Publications           18.12 Elections
18.06 Authentication               18.13 City Seal
18.07 Certification                18.14 City Funds
 
18.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   The Council shall appoint by majority vote, upon recommendation by the City
Administrator, a Clerk pursuant to a term as shall be established by resolution
by the Council and has the duties, powers, and functions prescribed in this
chapter, by State law, and other ordinances of the City. The Council shall
specify by resolution the compensation to be paid for such services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(3))
18.02   POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
   The Clerk (or, in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk)
has the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code, and the law.
18.03   PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
   Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting of the Council, the
Clerk shall cause the minutes of the proceedings of the Council, including the
total expenditure from each City fund, to be delivered to a newspaper of
general circulation in the City for publication. The publication shall include
a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall show the
gross amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(6))
18.04   RECORDING MEASURES.
   The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed, or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7(1 and 2))
18.05   OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
   The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments,
proceedings, and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
   1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code or law, the notice must be published at least once, not
less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the election, hearing,
or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
   2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code or law must
be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general circulation
in the City, except that ordinances and amendments may be published by posting
in the following places:
Windsor Heights City Hall
1145 66 th Street Suite 1
Windsor Heights, IA
 
Windsor Heights Public Safety Building
1133 66 th Street
Windsor Heights, Iowa
 
Hy-Vee Food Store
7101 University Avenue
Windsor Heights, Iowa
 
City website and social media platforms
The Clerk is hereby directed to post promptly such ordinances and amendments,
and to leave them so posted for not less than 10 days after the first date of
posting. Unauthorized removal of the posted ordinance or amendment prior to the
completion of the 10 days shall not affect the validity of said ordinance or
amendment. The Clerk shall note the first date of such posting on the official
copy of the ordinance and in the official ordinance book immediately following
the ordinance.
18.06   AUTHENTICATION.
   The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7(4))
18.07   CERTIFICATION.
   The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district,
building lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or
limits to the County Recorder containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08   RECORDS.
   The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
   1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances
and codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7(5))
   2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
   3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents (or accurate
reproductions) for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions)
relating to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption, or replacement of
public bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the
final maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions) relating to
real property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(3 and 5))
   4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of
any record, paper, or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments that by this Code
are required to be attested by the affixing of the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4 and 5) and 380.7(5))
   5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and
petitions directed to the Council or to the City generally. The Clerk shall
endorse thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
18.09   ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings, and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions. The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct record
of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
18.10   LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which shall show date of
issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number, name of person to
whom issued, term of license or permit, and purpose for which issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
18.11   NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
   The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to
offices in the City government of their positions and the time at which they
shall assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
18.12   ELECTIONS.
   The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in accordance with
Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.13   CITY SEAL.
   The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the
Clerk to all transcripts, orders, and certificates that it may be necessary or
proper to authenticate. The City seal is circular in form, in the center of
which are the words “WINDSOR HEIGHTS, IOWA” and around the margin of which are
the words “CITY SEAL.”
18.14   CITY FUNDS.
   The Clerk shall perform the following duties relating to City funds.
Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4)
   1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of
the City in the manner provided by law, and Council direction.
   2.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received on behalf of the City and specify the date, from whom, and for what
purpose received.
   3.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
   4.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received from
special assessments.
   5.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
CHAPTER 19
FINANCE DIRECTOR
 
19.01 Appointment  19.03 Duties of Finance Director
19.02 Compensation
 
19.01   APPOINTMENT.
   The Council shall appoint by majority vote, upon recommendation by the City
Administrator, the Finance Director.
19.02   COMPENSATION.
   The Finance Director is paid such compensation as specified by resolution of
the Council.
19.03   DUTIES OF FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   The duties of the Finance Director are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
   1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of
the City in the manner provided by law and Council direction.
   2.   Record of Fund. Keep the record of each fund separate.
   3.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received by the Finance Director on behalf of the City and specify the date,
from whom, and for what purpose received.
   4.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
   5.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received by
the Finance Director from special assessments.
   6.   Deposit Funds. Upon receipt of monies to be held in the Finance
Director’s custody and belonging to the City, deposit the same in depositories
selected by the Council.
   7.   Reconciliation. Reconcile depository statements with the Finance
Director’s books and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash and
investments of each fund and amounts received and disbursed.
   8.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
   9.   Other Duties. Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance.
   10.   Reconciliation with Clerk. Reconcile the Finance Director’s books with
the Clerk’s every month.
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01 Appointment and Compensation 20.06 Provide Legal Opinion
20.02 Attorney for City            20.07 Attendance at Council Meetings
20.03 Power of Attorney            20.08 Prepare Documents
20.04 Ordinance Preparation        20.09 Representation of City Employees
20.05 Review and Comment
 
20.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve at the
discretion of the Council. The City Attorney shall receive such compensation as
established by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
20.02   ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
   The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters
affecting the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any
court, tribunal, commission, or board. The City Attorney shall prosecute or
defend all actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
20.03   POWER OF ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
20.04   ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
   The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
20.05   REVIEW AND COMMENT.
   The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving
an opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to
or coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
20.06   PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
   The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Mayor, Council as a whole, City Administrator, Department Heads, inclusive of
Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
20.07   ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
20.08   PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
   The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts,
forms, and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
20.09   REPRESENTATION OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
   The City Attorney shall not appear on behalf of any City officer or employee
before any court or tribunal for the purely private benefit of said officer or
employee. The City Attorney shall, however, if directed by the Council, appear
to defend any City officer or employee in any cause of action arising out of or
in the course of the performance of the duties of his or her office or
employment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.8)
CHAPTER 21
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
 
21.01 Appointment and Compensation 21.04 Combined Offices
21.02 Term                         21.05 Powers and Duties
21.03 Chief Administrative Officer
 
21.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   The City Administrator shall be appointed by majority vote of the Council
and receive such compensation as shall be established by resolution.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
21.02   TERM.
   The City Administrator shall serve pursuant to a term as shall be
established by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
21.03   CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   The City Administrator shall be the Chief Administrative Officer of the
City.
21.04   COMBINED OFFICES.
   The Council may, by resolution passed by a majority of the entire Council,
combine the office of City Administrator with the offices of Clerk, Building
Official, or Zoning Administrator, and so long as the duties of any of those
offices are performed by the City Administrator, there shall be no appointment
to those offices.
21.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Administrator shall have the following powers and duties:
   1.   Administration. Supervise and direct the administration of the City
government.
   2.   Supervise Officers. Supervise and direct the official conduct of all
appointed officers of the City, except the Mayor Pro Tem and City Attorney.
   3.   Personnel. Appoint, promote, reassign, reclassify, discipline, demote,
and discharge all employees in compliance with law and ordinance.
   4.   Compensation of Employees. Fix the compensation of all employees
appointed by them, subject to the approval of the Council.
   5.   Investigation. Investigate, summarily and without notice, the conduct
and affairs of any department, agency, officer, or employee of the City.
   6.   Law Enforcement. Supervise the enforcement and execution of all laws
and ordinances within the City.
   7.   Contracts. Supervise the performance of all contracts for work to be
done for the City.
   8.   Purchasing. Supervise the purchase and receipt of all materials,
services, and supplies for and on behalf of the City.
   9.   Public Works. Supervise the construction, improvement, repair,
maintenance, and management of all City property, capital improvements, and
undertakings of the City, including the making and preservation of all surveys,
maps, plans, drawings, specifications, and estimates for capital improvements.
   10.   Attend Meetings. Attend all meetings of the Council and City
administrative agencies.
   11.   Recommendations. Recommend to the Council any measures as are
necessary or expedient for the good government and general welfare of the City.
   12.   Cooperation. Cooperate with any administrative agency of the City.
   13.   Accounting. Supervise the Finance Director and ensure that the
business affairs of the City are conducted by modern and efficient accounting
methods and cause accurate records to be kept.
   14.   Budget. Prepare and submit to the Council annually the required
budgets.
   15.   Financial Reports. Submit a written, itemized financial report to the
Council not later than the fifteenth day of each month, showing receipts,
disbursements, and investments for the preceding month.
   16.   Licenses. Provide for the issuance, suspension, and revocation of all
licenses and permits authorized or required by law or ordinance.
   17.   Oaths. Administer oaths.
   18.   Powers Assumed. Assume the powers and duties of the Clerk and Zoning
Administrator.
   19.   Other. Exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may
be directed by the Council.
CHAPTER 22
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
 
22.01 Public Works Director Appointed 22.03 Water Service
22.02 Duties of Public Works Director 22.04 Removal of Trees
 
22.01   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR APPOINTED.
   The Public Works Director shall be appointed and discharged by the City
Administrator, with approval of the Council.
22.02   DUTIES OF PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   The Public Works Director shall be responsible for the direction and control
of all operations and affairs of the Public Works Department and shall be
vested with all powers and duties for managing public works in the City,
including maintenance of public property in the City. The Public Works
Director’s responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the following:
   1.   Supervise the installation of water service pipes and their connection
to the water main and enforce regulations pertaining to water services.
   2.   Inspect sidewalks and driveways.
   3.   Supervise the upkeep and repair of streets, their markings, and traffic
signs.
   4.   Maintain the City’s property, park facilities, sewer system, and water
system.
   5.   Perform such other duties as may be directed by the City Administrator.
22.03   WATER SERVICE.
   This chapter applies to all replacements of existing water service pipes as
well as to new pipes. The Public Works Director shall make such rules, not in
conflict with the provisions of this chapter, as may be needed for the detailed
operation of the water system, subject to the approval of the Council. In the
event of an emergency, the Public Works Director may make temporary rules for
the protection of the system until due consideration by the Council may be had.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
22.04   REMOVAL OF TREES.
   The Public Works Director shall remove, on the order of the Council, any
tree on the streets of the City which interferes with the making of
improvements or with travel thereon. The Public Works Director shall,
additionally, remove any trees on the street, not on private property, which
have become diseased, or which constitute a danger to the public, or which may
otherwise be declared a nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(c) and 372.13(4))
CHAPTER 23
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
23.01 Planning and Zoning Commission 23.04 Compensation
23.02 Term of Office                 23.05 Powers and Duties
23.03 Vacancies
 
23.01   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of seven members appointed by the Council. The Commission
members shall be residents of the City and shall not hold any elective office
in the City government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6 and 392.1)
23.02   TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be four or five
years at the Mayor’s discretion to ensure the terms of not more than one-third
will expire in any one year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.03   VACANCIES.
   If any vacancy exists on the Commission, caused by resignation or otherwise,
a successor for the remainder of the term shall be appointed in the same manner
as the original appointee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.04   COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Selection of Officers. The Commission shall choose annually at its
first regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as
Vice Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during
the Chairperson’s absence or disability.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations. The Commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   3.   Zoning. The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and
duties and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other
related matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council amendments,
supplements, changes, or modifications, all as provided by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)
   4.   Recommendations on Improvements.  The design and proposed location of
public improvements shall be submitted to the Commission for its
recommendations prior to any actions being taken by the City for the
construction or placement of such improvements. Such requirements and
recommendations shall not act as a stay upon action for any such improvement if
the Commission, after 30 days’ written notice requesting such recommendations,
has failed to file the same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   5.   Review and Comment on Plats. All plans, plats, or re-plats of
subdivisions or re-subdivisions of land in the City or adjacent thereto, laid
out in lots or plats with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same
intended to be dedicated to the public in the City, shall first be submitted to
the Commission and its recommendations obtained before approval by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   6.   Fiscal Responsibilities. The Commission shall have full, complete, and
exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of money
appropriated to it and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments that
are received by the City for City planning and zoning purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   7.   Limitation on Entering Contracts. The Commission shall have no power to
contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended appropriation as
approved by the Council for the present year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   8.   Annual Report. The Commission shall each year make a report to the
Mayor and Council of its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts and
disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
CHAPTER 30
POLICE DEPARTMENT
 
30.01 Department Established        30.07 Police Chief Appointed
30.02 Organization                  30.08 Powers and Duties of Police Chief
30.03 Police Officer Qualifications 30.09 Departmental Rules
30.04 Required Training             30.10 Summoning Aid
30.05 Oath                          30.11 Taking Weapons
30.06 Compensation                  30.12 Unbiased Policing Policy
 
30.01   DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   The Police Department of the City is established to provide for the
preservation of peace and enforcement of law and ordinances within the
corporate limits of the City and elsewhere as provided by law.
30.02   ORGANIZATION.
   The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law enforcement
officers and personnel, whether full or part time, as may be authorized by the
Council.
30.03   POLICE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.
   In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy and the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)
30.04   REQUIRED TRAINING.
   All police officers shall have received the minimum training required by law
at an approved law enforcement training school within one year of employment.
Police officers shall also meet the minimum in-service training as required by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11(2))
(501 IAC 3 and 8)
30.05   OATH.
   Every police officer, before taking the position, shall qualify for office
by taking the oath presented by this Code.
30.06   COMPENSATION.
   Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
30.07   POLICE CHIEF APPOINTED.
   The Mayor shall appoint and dismiss the Police Chief subject to the consent
of a majority of the Council. A super majority vote of the Council is needed
for the removal of the Police Chief. The Police Chief shall select the other
members of the department, subject to the approval of the City Administrator.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
30.08   POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
   The Police Chief has the following powers and duties subject to the approval
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
   1.   General. Perform all duties required of the Police Chief by law or
ordinance.
   2.   Enforce Laws. Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations and bring
all persons committing any offense before the proper court.
   3.   Writs. Execute and return all writs and other processes directed to the
Police Chief.
   4.   Accident Reports. Report all motor vehicle accidents investigated to
the State Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
   5.   Prisoners. Be responsible for the custody of prisoners, including
conveyance to detention facilities as may be required.
   6.   Assist Officials. When requested, provide aid to other City officers,
boards, and commissions in the execution of their official duties.
   7.   Investigations. Provide for such investigation as may be necessary for
the prosecution of any person alleged to have violated any law or ordinance.
   8.   Record of Arrests. Keep a record of all arrests made in the City by
showing whether said arrests were made under provisions of State law or City
ordinance, the offense charged, who made the arrest, and the disposition of the
charge.
   9.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report
as well as such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor, Council, or
City Administrator.
   10.   Command. Be in command of all officers appointed for police work and
be responsible for the care, maintenance, and use of all vehicles, equipment,
and materials of the department.
   11.   Other Duties. Have such other duties as lawfully assigned.
30.09   DEPARTMENTAL RULES.
   The Police Chief shall establish such rules, not in conflict with the Code,
and subject to the approval of the Council, as may be necessary for the
operation of the department.
30.10   SUMMONING AID.
   Any police officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons
as the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the
arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)
30.11   TAKING WEAPONS.
   Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items
that are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have
within such person’s control, to be disposed of according to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)
30.12   UNBIASED POLICING POLICY.
   The Police Department shall be committed to the unbiased, equitable
treatment of all persons. The Police Department shall ensure all employees
observe, respect, and protect the constitutional rights of all persons.
   1.   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      A.   “Biased policing” means differential treatment in the performance of
law enforcement duties or delivery of police services towards a person or
classes of persons when one or more individual demographics were a motivating
factor in the action taken.
      B.   “Employee” means any member of the Police Department, including
volunteers.
      C.   “Fair and impartial treatment” means the belief that persons,
irrespective of individual demographics, shall be treated in the same basic
manner under the same or similar circumstances. Reasonable concessions and
accommodations may be made, when dealing with individuals with physical or
mental disabilities, injury, illness, or similar conditions, or when
information about them necessitates different treatment.
      D.   “Individual demographics” means personal characteristics to include,
but not be limited to, race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, age, gender,
gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status,
disability, immigration status, housing status, occupation, language fluency,
cultural group, political status, or any other identifiable characteristics.
      E.   “Racial profiling” means the selection of individuals based solely
on a common trait of a group. This includes, and is not limited to, race,
ethnic background, gender, sexual orientation, religion, economic status, age,
disability, political affiliation, national origin, or cultural group.
   2.   Prohibitions.
      A.   No employee shall engage in bias-based policing or profiling while
providing police services.
      B.   Bias based profiling shall not constitute probable cause or a
reasonable and articulable suspicion that an offense has been or is being
committed so as to justify the detention of an individual, the investigatory
stop of a motor vehicle, custody or arrest, search or frisk, field contact, or
seizure and forfeiture of property.
      C.   Employees shall not use any terms, language, or remarks that are
derogatory, tend to belittle, show contempt for, or defame any individual
demographic, except when necessary to include such terms, language, or remarks
used by another for the preparation of an official report or testimony.
      D.   Employees shall not take any law enforcement action based on
information from members of the public or other employees they know, or
reasonably should know, under all circumstances present is the product of, or
motivated by bias-based profiling unless the circumstances indicate that harm
is imminent or a crime has been committed.
      E.   Discriminatory pretextual stops are prohibited under State and
federal law and are prohibited by this subchapter.
   3.   Complaint Process.
      A.   Any person claiming to be aggrieved or to have witnessed bias based
profiling may file a complaint. Further, no person shall be discouraged,
intimidated, or coerced from filing such a complaint, nor shall any person be
discriminated or retaliated against because they have filed a complaint with
the Police Department.
      B.   Any employee observing bias-based profiling by another employee
shall immediately direct the employee displaying the behavior to stop or
immediately report the incident to a supervisor. Any employee who stops or
reports any practice in violation of this subchapter shall not be discriminated
against in any manner for opposing such conduct, testifying, assisting, or
participating in any investigation, proceeding, or hearing arising out of a
violation of this subchapter.
      C.   Employee complaints shall be filed with the employee’s supervisor or
the Police Chief. Any external complaints shall be filed with the Police
Department or the City Administrator’s office.
      D.   Bias-based profiling complaints received by the Police Department or
City Administrator shall be investigated as outlined in Department Policy. When
necessary, an alternate investigator may be assigned by the Police Chief.
   4.   Training. All police employees shall receive annual training on the
prevention of bias-based policing and profiling that may include, but are not
limited to:
      A.   Ethics;
      B.   De-escalation;
      C.   Motor vehicle and Terry stops;
      D.   Citizen contacts;
      E.   Probable cause and reasonable suspicion;
      F.   Diversity;
      G.   Implicit bias; and
      H.   Racial profiling.
   5.   Annual Review. The Police Chief shall review this chapter at least
annually. The City Administrator shall certify this review to the Council.
CHAPTER 31
ALARM SYSTEMS
 
31.01 Definitions                    31.04 Nonliability of City
31.02 Purpose                        31.05 Penalty
31.03 Enforcement and Administration
 
31.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Alarm company” means a business providing among its services alarm
sales, installation, service, monitoring, or billing of alarm users or the
service of receiving on a continuous basis, through trained employees,
emergency signals from alarm systems, and thereafter immediately relaying the
message by live voice to the emergency dispatch center or such other places as
directed by the City.
   2.   “Alarm system” means any device used to detect or prevent intrusion,
criminal activity, or other such emergency situation which, when activated,
causes notification to be made directly or indirectly to the Police Department
or Fire Department, or any such device or system designed primarily for the
purpose of giving an audible or visual signal of an attempted intrusion,
criminal activity, fire, or other such emergency. An alarm system, for the
purpose of this chapter, does not include an alarm installed on a motor
vehicle.
   3.   “Alarm system operator” means an alarm user or other person using an
alarm system.
   4.   “Alarm user” means the person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company, or organization of any kind in control of any building
who owns, leases, installs, or contracts for, or otherwise obtains an alarm
system and thereafter contracts with or hires an alarm company to monitor or
service the alarm device, or who owns or operates an alarm system.
   5.   “Building” means any single-family housing, multi-family dwelling,
apartment, commercial business, school, church, religious facility, structure,
or place within the City.
   6.   “Chief” means the Police Chief or Fire Chief, or designated
representative, who is authorized by the Chief to exercise any power or duty
conferred to the Chief under this chapter.
   7.   “Coordinator” means an individual designated to enforce the provisions
of this chapter.
   8.   “False alarm” means any alarm signal that is activated by error or
mistake, system malfunction, malicious misuse, or on purpose, when an emergency
situation requiring a response did not exist at or about the time of the
response. The burden of proving that such an alarm signal was not a false alarm
shall be on the alarm user.
      A.   Error or Mistake. Any action by an alarm user, or any action by an
agent or employee of the alarm user, or any other person in the building, which
results in the activation of the alarm system when no emergency exists, and no
attempt to cancel the alarm by contacting the 911 call center was made.
      B.   System Malfunction. Any activation of an alarm system caused by a
mechanical malfunction, flaw in the design, installation, or maintenance of the
alarm system. This does not include any activation caused by extraordinary
violent conditions of nature.
      C.   Malicious Misuse. Any intentional activation of an alarm system when
no emergency exists.
      D.   Non-Emergency Activation. Any system activation that did not
constitute an emergency; however, the system operated properly based on
conditions or human actions at that time. (Examples include smoke detector
activation from burned food, children activating a pull station, unintentional
security system activation with prompt follow up to the 911 call center, or
extraordinary violent conditions of nature.)
   9.   “Monitoring” means the process by which an alarm company or its
designated alarm answering service receives signals from an alarm system and
relays an alarm dispatch request to the emergency dispatch center, or other
places as directed by the City, for the purpose of summoning police or fire
personnel to the building.
31.02   PURPOSE.
   It is the finding of the Council that false alarms seriously undermine the
morale and safety of Fire and Police Departments personnel as well as
unnecessarily expose to danger the citizens of the City who encounter emergency
vehicles responding to false alarms, result in a waste of City resources, and
result in citizens ignoring alarm system signals. The purpose of this chapter
is to provide regulations applicable to alarm systems and to encourage the
effective use of alarm systems. The most significant desired result of this
chapter is to enhance public safety and more efficiently and safely use City
emergency response resources by reducing the number of false alarms received.
31.03   ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION.
   1.   Grace Period After Installation of an Alarm System.
      A.   Upon the installation date of a new or replacement alarm system, a
grace period of 14 calendar days will be allowed for the alarm user and alarm
system operators to become familiar with the operations of the alarm system and
to make corrections to the operation of the alarm system. Service charges for
false alarms shall be waived during the grace period, provided the number of
false alarms during the grace period is not excessive. An excessive number of
false alarms is:
         (1)   Equal to three or more false alarms in one calendar day or 24-
hour period.
         (2)   Equal to six or more false alarms in the first 14 calendar days
since installation of the alarm system.
      B.   The appropriate Chief, or Chief’s designated representative, may
waive the service charge fee for an excessive number of false alarms during the
grace period, at their discretion, due to extenuating circumstances as
determined on a case-by-case review.
   2.   Excessive False Alarms; Service Charge Fees.
      A.   Because a false alarm for security, intrusion, robbery, and other
non-fire causes usually requires from one to three police officers to respond
in individual vehicular units, depending on the type of alarm, and a false
alarm for fire suppression or other firefighting incidents usually requires
multiple firefighters from the Fire Department to respond in multiple and
specialized firefighting equipment, depending on the type of alarm, the City
shall assess a service charge fee to any alarm user that generates an
unnecessary number of false alarm responses during a calendar year. The alarm
user shall pay the City the assessed false alarm fee within 20 days of the date
an invoice is given to the alarm user for any false alarm created by the alarm
user’s alarm system in accordance with the Fee Schedule.
      B.   After the second false alarm, the alarm user shall receive a written
notice from the Chief. The notice shall require that by a specified date the
alarm user shall have their alarm system inspected by an alarm company and
alarm user shall review operational procedures with the alarm system operator
and any other individuals having access to the use and operation of the alarm
system. Notice or billing from the City to any alarm user shall be deemed to
have been given or rendered on the date such notice or billing is deposited in
the U.S. Mail, first class postage, addressed to the alarm user at the address
shown for the alarm user. The alarm user shall notify the applicable Chief, in
writing, after the inspection by the alarm company has been completed and shall
provide to the Chief a copy of any report of service, repair, or inspection of
the alarm system given by the alarm company. An alarm company providing an
inspection or repair of an alarm system shall notify the Chief in advance of
such service. The alarm company shall be assessed a fee set in the Fee Schedule
by the City when the Police Department or Fire Department respond to a false
alarm and it is determined by the City that an on-site employee of the alarm
company directly caused the false alarm. In such a circumstance, the false
alarm shall not count against the alarm user.
   3.   Appeal Process for False Alarm Service Charges. An alarm user assessed
a false alarm fee may appeal the false alarm fee in writing to the Public
Safety Committee. The filing of an appeal with the Public Safety Committee
stays the assessment of the false alarm fee until the Public Safety Committee
makes a final decision.
      A.   The alarm user shall file a written appeal to the Public Safety
Committee by setting forth the reasons for the appeal within 10 days after
receipt of the false alarm fee invoice. The Public Safety Committee will review
relevant information, including conditions of nature, for the date and time of
the occurrence of the false alarm. The Public Safety Committee may reverse the
assessment of the false alarm fee only if there was no false alarm or the false
alarm was not contributed to by the acts or omissions of the alarm user or the
alarm user’s family, pets, guests, employees, or invitees.
      B.   The Public Safety Committee shall notify the alarm user, the alarm
company, and the coordinator of its decision within five working days. The
decision of the Public Safety Committee is final as to administrative remedies
of the City.
31.04   NONLIABILITY OF CITY.
   The City shall not be liable for any defects in the operation of any alarm
system, for any failure or neglect to respond appropriately upon receipt of an
alarm from such a source, for any failure or neglect of any person in
connection with the installation, operation, disconnection, or removal of
equipment, the transmission of alarm signals, or the relaying of such signals
or messages.
31.05   PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this chapter for any
particular provision or section, any person violating any provision of this
chapter or any rule or regulation adopted herein by reference shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the standard penalty as stated in the Fee Schedule.
CHAPTER 35
FIRE DEPARTMENT
 
35.01 Establishment and Purpose 35.05 Department Members
35.02 Organization              35.06 Duties of Members
35.03 Fire Chief Appointed      35.07 Fires Outside City Limits
35.04 Duties of Fire Chief      35.08 Authority to Cite Violations
 
35.01   ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
   A Fire Department is hereby established to prevent and extinguish fires and
to protect lives and property against fires, to promote fire prevention and
fire safety, to provide out-of-hospital emergency medical services, to respond
to and mitigate hazardous materials incidents, and to answer all emergency
calls for which there is no other established agency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.16)
35.02   ORGANIZATION.
   The Fire Department shall consist of the Fire Chief and such other officers
and personnel as may be authorized by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
35.03   FIRE CHIEF APPOINTED.
   The Fire Chief shall be appointed and discharged by the City Administrator,
with approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
35.04   DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall have the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
   1.   Personnel. Appoint, assign, reassign, promote, reclassify, discipline,
demote, and discharge all personnel of the Fire Department in compliance with
law and ordinance.
   2.   Set Compensation. Fix the compensation of all personnel appointed by
the Fire Chief, subject to the approval of the Council.
   3.   Management. Be responsible for the direction and control of all
operations and affairs of the Fire Department; be vested with all powers,
rights, and privileges attending the responsibility of management; and exercise
the same, where appropriate, by rules, directives, or other orders which shall
be binding on all personnel of the Fire Department when duly promulgated.
   4.   Organization. Determine and establish the form of organization of the
Fire Department; create subordinate organizational subdivisions or sections
within the Fire Department; and determine and define the functions, duties, and
responsibilities of each.
   5.   Classification Plan. Determine and establish such classifications or
ranks, grades, and positions for personnel within the Fire Department as the
Fire Chief may deem appropriate as provided in the Department Rules and
Regulations; prescribe the uniform and uniform insignia for all ranks; define
and designate the authority, responsibility, duties, assignments, rights, and
privileges for each such rank, grade, or position; and establish the order of
succession to positions of command within the Fire Department.
   6.   Employee Performance. Regulate attendance, conduct, training,
discipline, and procedures for all personnel of the Fire Department; make all
other rules, regulations, and orders as may be deemed necessary for the
management of the Fire Department and its personnel; and institute a system of
periodic performance evaluation for all members of the Fire Department.
   7.   Property. Acquire, hold, control, and maintain all property, equipment,
facilities, and premises necessary to the operation of the Fire Department; and
dispose of the same in such manner as may be authorized by law.
   8.   Records. Establish and modify systems for the reception, processing,
and maintenance of reports and records of all occurrences, or alleged
occurrences of fire, arson, and Fire Code violations in the City, and of the
administration, management, and operations of the Fire Department; and
establish procedures, not inconsistent with law, for the safekeeping,
photocopying, and destruction of records of the Fire Department.
   9.   Reports. Compile annually an analytical report based upon the records
maintained by the Fire Department and summarizing the activities of the Fire
Department for the year. The report shall be filed with the Council and may
contain recommendations for the improvement of the Fire Department.
   10.   Fire Prevention. Enforce all laws and ordinances regulating fire
prevention requirements with the City.
   11.   Right of Entry. Have the power of entry into any building or premises
within the Fire Chief’s jurisdiction for the purpose of making such
investigation or inspection which, under law or ordinance, the Fire Chief may
consider necessary to be made.
   12.   Fire Hazards. Make such recommendations to owners, occupants,
managers, or caretakers of buildings for the purposes of eliminating fire
hazards as are provided for by law or ordinance.
   13.   State Fire Marshal. At the request of the State Fire Marshal, and as
provided by law, aid such Marshal in the performance of the Marshal’s duties by
investigating, preventing, and reporting data pertaining to fires.
   14.   Building Plans. Review all commercial building and remodeling plans
for compliance with appropriate fire codes; file a report of findings to
appropriate departments or agencies.
   15.   Water Supply. Review and monitor the City water system as it relates
to fire protection, making recommendations to the Public Works Director
regarding repairs, modifications, or additions to said system as required to
maintain or improve fire protection.
   16.   Emergency Management. Serve in capacity of Emergency Management
Officer for the City; coordinate activities with the County Emergency
Management Agency; write and update a disaster plan for the City; develop and
maintain the emergency operations center as a functional system capable of
operating effectively in a disaster mode; seek available State and federal
moneys to improve disaster response capabilities; assure that all City
personnel are aware of their duties in a disaster situation; conduct at least
one disaster drill each year to test response capabilities; and perform other
tasks assigned by the Council and the County Emergency Management Agency.
   17.   Council Meetings. Attend all Council meetings unless excused by the
City Administrator.
   18.   Authority at Fires. When in charge of a fire scene, direct an
operation as necessary to extinguish or control a fire, perform a rescue
operation, investigate the existence of a suspected or reported fire, gas leak,
or other hazardous condition, or take any other action deemed necessary in the
reasonable performance of the Fire Department’s duties.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
   19.   Control of Scenes. Prohibit an individual, vehicle, or vessel from
approaching a fire scene and remove from the scene any object, vehicle, vessel,
or individual that may impede or interfere with the operation of the Fire
Department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
   20.   Authority to Barricade. When in charge of a fire scene, place or erect
ropes, guards, barricades, or other obstructions across a street, alley, right-
of-way, or private property near the location of the fire or emergency so as to
prevent accidents or interference with the firefighting efforts of the Fire
Department, to control the scene until any required investigation is complete,
or to preserve evidence related to the fire or other emergency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.3)
35.05   DEPARTMENT MEMBERS.
   Persons 18 years of age or older who meet established entrance requirements
for the Fire Department shall be appointed to serve as paid-on-call
firefighters, fire medics, and staff specialists.
35.06   DUTIES OF MEMBERS.
   When called by the Fire Chief or the dispatcher, all members shall report
for duty immediately in the manner directed by the Chief. They shall be subject
to call at any time. They shall obey strictly the commands of any other officer
who has been appointed by the Chief to be in command. Members shall follow all
rules and regulations established for the Fire Department.
35.07   FIRES OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   The Fire Department shall answer calls to fires and other emergencies
outside the City limits within the limits established by Mutual Aid and
Automatic Aid agreements.
35.08   AUTHORITY TO CITE VIOLATIONS.
   Fire officials acting under the authority of Chapter 10A, Subchapter V, Part
2 of the Code of Iowa, may issue citations in accordance with Chapter 805 of
the Code of Iowa, for violations of Chapter 10A, Subchapter V, Part 2 of the
Code of Iowa or a violation of a local fire safety code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.41)
CHAPTER 36
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
36.01 Purpose                     36.05 Notifications
36.02 Definitions                 36.06 Police Authority
36.03 Cleanup Required            36.07 Liability
36.04 Liability for Cleanup Costs
 
36.01   PURPOSE.
   In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety, and welfare from
the leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated
to establish responsibility for the treatment, removal, and cleanup of
hazardous substance spills within the City limits.
36.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Cleanup” means actions necessary to contain, collect, control,
identify, analyze, clean up, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous
substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381(1))
   2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual,
imminent, or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance
onto the land, into a water of the State, or into the atmosphere which creates
an immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety or to the
environment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381(4))
   3.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substances that
presents a danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not
limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an
irritant or that generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means. “Hazardous substance” may include any hazardous waste identified or
listed by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under
Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1,
1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381(5))
   4.   “Responsible person” means a person who at any time produces, handles,
stores, uses, transports, refines, or disposes of a hazardous substance, the
release of which creates a hazardous condition, including bailees, carriers,
and any other person in control of a hazardous substance when a hazardous
condition occurs, whether the person owns the hazardous substance or is
operating under a lease, contract, or other agreement with the legal owner of
the hazardous substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381(7))
36.03   CLEANUP REQUIRED.
   Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection,
dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of a hazardous substance, so that the
hazardous substance or a constituent of the hazardous substance may enter the
environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including
groundwaters, the responsible person shall cause the condition to be remedied
by a cleanup, as defined in the preceding section, as rapidly as feasible to an
acceptable, safe condition. The costs of cleanup shall be borne by the
responsible person. If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to
begin in a reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the
incident, the City may, by an authorized officer, give reasonable notice, based
on the character of the hazardous condition, said notice setting a deadline for
accomplishing the cleanup and stating that the City will proceed to procure
cleanup services and bill the responsible person for all costs associated with
the cleanup if the cleanup is not accomplished within the deadline. In the
event that it is determined that immediate cleanup is necessary as a result of
the present danger to the public health, safety, and welfare, then no notice
shall be required, and the City may proceed to procure the cleanup and bill the
responsible person for all costs associated with the cleanup. If the bill for
those services is not paid within 30 days, the City Attorney shall proceed to
obtain payment by all legal means. If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the
capacity of the City to finance it, the authorized officer shall report to the
Council and immediately seek any State or federal funds available for said
cleanup.
36.04   LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
   The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the City for all of the
following:
   1.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the City or the agents of the
City as a result of the failure of the responsible person to clean up a
hazardous substance involved in a hazardous condition.
   2.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City or the agents of the City to
evacuate people from the area threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the
person.
   3.   The reasonable damages to the City for the injury to, destruction of,
or loss of City property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction, or loss.
   4.   The excessive and extraordinary cost incurred by the City or the agents
of the City in responding at and to the scene of a hazardous condition caused
by that person.
36.05   NOTIFICATIONS.
   1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing
of a hazardous substance shall notify the State Department of Natural Resources
and the Police Chief of the occurrence of a hazardous condition as soon as
possible but not later than six hours after the onset of the hazardous
condition or discovery of the hazardous condition. The Police Chief shall
immediately notify the Department of Natural Resources.
   2.   Any other person who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
Police Chief, which shall then notify the Department of Natural Resources.
36.06   POLICE AUTHORITY.
   If the circumstances reasonably so require, the law enforcement officer or
an authorized representative may:
   1.   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition, and
   2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
   No person shall disobey an order of any police officer issued under this
section.
36.07   LIABILITY.
   The City shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries,
or losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the City is the
responsible person as defined in Section
36.02(4).
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC OFFENSES
 
40.01 PUBLIC PEACE
40.02 PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
40.03 PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
40.04 DRUGS AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
40.05 WEAPONS
40.06 ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
40.07 MINORS
40.08 PARK REGULATIONS
40.09 OTHER PUBLIC OFFENSES ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS
 
CHAPTER 40 - PUBLIC OFFENSES
SUBCHAPTER 40.01
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01.01 Assault            40.01.04 Failure to Disperse
40.01.02 Harassment         40.01.05 Disorderly Houses; Social Hosts
40.01.03 Disorderly Conduct 40.01.06 Public Exposure
 
40.01.01   ASSAULT.
   No person shall, without justification, commit assault defined as follows:
   1.   Types of Assault.
      A.   Any act which is intended to cause pain or injury to, or which is
intended to result in physical contact which will be insulting or offensive to
another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1(2)(a))
      B.   Any act which is intended to place another in fear of immediate
physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting, or offensive,
coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1(2)(b))
      C.   Intentionally points any firearm toward another or displays in a
threating manner any dangerous weapon toward another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1(2)(c))
   2.   Exceptions. An act described as assault in Subsection 1 shall not be an
assault under the following circumstances:
      A.   If the person doing any of the enumerated acts, and such other
person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social, or other activity, not
in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable incident of such
sport or activity and does not create an unreasonable risk of serious injury or
breach of the peace.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1(3)(a))
      B.   If the person doing any of the enumerated acts is employed by a
school district or accredited nonpublic school, or is an area education agency
staff member who provides services to a school or school district, and
intervenes in a fight or physical struggle, or other disruptive situation, that
takes place in the presence of the employee or staff member performing
employment duties in a school building, on school grounds, or at an official
school function regardless of the location, whether the fight or physical
struggle or other disruptive situation is between students or other
individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention is reasonably
necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1(3)(b))
40.01.02   HARASSMENT.
   1.   Definition. The following term is defined for use in this section.
      A.   “Personal contact” means an encounter in which two or more people
are in visual or physical proximity to each other. Personal contact does not
require a physical touching or oral communication, although it may include
these types of contacts.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7(8)(b))
   2.   Harassment. No person shall commit harassment. A person commits
harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or alarm another person, the
person does any of the following:
      A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7(1)(a)(1))
      B.   Places a simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near a building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or car, or boat occupied by
another person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7(1)(a)(2))
      C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without the other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7(1)(a)(3))
      D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law
enforcement authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing
that the information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal
act, knowing the act did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7(1)(a)(4))
   3.   Act of Harassment. A person commits harassment when the person,
purposefully and without legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another
person, with the intent to threaten, intimidate, or alarm that other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7(1)(b))
   4.   Exceptions. The following do not constitute harassment.
      A.   A photograph or film involving voluntary exposure by a person in
public or commercial settings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7(6)(a))
      B.   Disclosures made in the public interest, including but not limited
to, the reporting of unlawful conduct, disclosures by law enforcement, news
reporting, legal proceeding disclosures, or medical treatment disclosures.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7(6)(b))
      C.   Disclosures by an interactive computer service of information
provided by another information content provider, as those terms are defined in
47 U.S.C. §230.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 780.7(6)(c))
40.01.03   DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or
in or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided, that participants in
athletic contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that
sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(a))
   2.   Noise. Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which intentionally or recklessly causes unreasonable distress
to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(b))
   3.   Abusive Language. Directs abusive epithets or makes any threatening
gesture that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a
violent reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(c))
   4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of
authority, the person disturbs any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by
conduct intended to disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(d))
   5.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiates or
circulates a report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing
such report to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(e))
   6.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly uses the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(f))
      A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(f)(2)(a))
      B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(f)(2)(b))
      C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(f)(2)(c))
      D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(f)(2)(d))
      E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(f)(2)(e))
      F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(f)(2)(f))
   7.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
      A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
      B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the
person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction
by another.
      C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral
procession, or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral,
memorial service, funeral procession, or burial.
   This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5(2))
40.01.04   FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   A police officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly
or persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to
disperse. Any person within hearing distance of such command, who refuses to
obey, commits a simple misdemeanor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
40.01.05   DISORDERLY HOUSES; SOCIAL HOSTS.
   1.   Definition.
      A.   Any room, house, building, structure, place, or premises wherein or
upon which any unlawful or illegal acts are committed in violation of local,
State, or federal law, or which is kept in such a manner as to disturb, annoy,
or scandalize the public generally or persons within a particular neighborhood
is hereby declared to be a disorderly house.
      B.   Any room, house, building, structure, place, or premises which is
kept, maintained, used, erected, established, or run for any of the following
purposes (as the same are defined in the Code of Iowa) is hereby declared to be
a disorderly house; provided, however, this shall not be construed to be
conclusive, limiting, or restrictive:
         (1)   Prostitution, pandering, or public indecency;
         (2)   Unlawful manufacture, cultivation, growth, production,
processing, sale, distribution, storage, use, or possession for any unlawful
manufacture or use of any controlled substance;
         (3)   Gambling or the keeping of gambling devices;
         (4)   Acts of disturbing the peace or disorderly conduct, as those
terms are described in Section
40.01.03 of this subchapter;
         (5)   The reception, retention, or disposition of stolen moveable
property of another;
         (6)   Clairvoyance, fortune telling, or divination;
         (7)   Consumption of alcohol by any person under the age of 21. † 4
   2.   Disorderly Houses Prohibited. It is unlawful for the owner, lessee,
renter, proprietor, or any other person to keep, run, or maintain a disorderly
house, or to knowingly collect or permit to be collected therein persons who
are engaging in any unlawful act or to knowingly make, cause or permit, or
suffer to be made therein any loud or improper noise to the annoyance or
disturbance of any person or neighborhood. A disorderly house is declared to be
a public nuisance.
   3.   Visiting Disorderly House Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to
become or remain an inmate of any disorderly house, or to frequent or visit
with knowledge of, and participation in, the illegal activities occurring
therein.
   4.   Social Hosts. The purpose of this subsection is to protect the public
interest, welfare, health, and safety within the City by prohibiting the
services to and consumption of alcoholic beverages by persons under the age of
21 at premises located in the City. The Council finds that the occurrence of
social gatherings at premises where alcoholic beverages are served to or
consumed by persons under the age of 21 is harmful to such persons themselves
and a threat to public welfare, health, and safety. The Council further finds
that persons under the age of 21 often obtain alcoholic beverages at such
gatherings and that persons who are in control of such premises know or have
reason to know of such service or consumption and will be more likely to ensure
that alcoholic beverages are neither served to nor consumed by persons under
the age of 21 at these gatherings. Based on these findings, the Council has
deemed it necessary to enact the following regulations:
      A.   Definitions. The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in
this subsection, have the meanings ascribed to them herein, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
         (1)   “Alcoholic beverage” means any beverage containing more than
one-half of one percent of alcohol by volume, including alcoholic liquor, wine,
and beer.
         (2)   “Emergency responders” means firefighters, law enforcement
officers, emergency medical service personnel, and other personnel having
emergency response duties.
         (3)   “Enforcement services” means the salaries and benefits of
emergency responders for the amount of time actually spent responding to or
remaining at an event, gathering, or party and administrative costs
attributable to the incident and includes the actual costs for medical
treatment for any injured emergency responder and the costs of repairing any
damage to equipment or vehicles.
         (4)   “Event, gathering, or party” means any group of three or more
persons who have assembled or gathered together for a social occasion or other
activity where an underage person has consumed or possessed an alcoholic
beverage.
         (5)   “Parent” means any person having legal custody of a juvenile as:
            a.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent;
            b.   A legal guardian; or
            c.   A person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
         (6)   “Premises” means any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment,
condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting
room, park, or any other place of assembly, public or private, whether occupied
on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or
specifically for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented, or used with or without permission or compensation.
         (7)   “Social host” means any person who aids, conducts, allows,
entertains, organizes, supervises, controls, or permits an event, gathering, or
party. This includes, but is not limited to:
            a.   The person who owns, rents, leases, or otherwise has control
of the premises where the event, gathering, or party takes place;
            b.   The person in charge of the premises; or
            c.   The person who organized the event. If the social host is a
juvenile, then the parents of that juvenile will be jointly and severally
liable for any violation of this subsection.
         (8)   “Underage person” means any individual under the age of 21.
      B.   Prohibited Acts. It is unlawful for any social host to host an
event, gathering, or party on premises when the person knows or reasonably
should know that an underage person has consumed an alcoholic beverage, or
possessed an alcoholic beverage with the intent to consume it, and the person
fails to take reasonable steps to prevent the possession or consumption by the
underage person. A social host who hosts such an event, gathering, or party
does not have to be present at the time the prohibited act occurs.
      C.   Exceptions. This Subsection 4 does not apply to conduct solely
between an underage person and their parents while present in the parents’
household, to legally protected religious observances, and to situations where
underage persons are lawfully in possession of alcoholic beverages during the
course and scope of employment.
      D.   Enforcement. The provisions of this subsection shall be enforced by
officers of the Police Department. The Police Department shall have primary but
not exclusive enforcement responsibility for this subsection.
      E.   Violations. Violations of this Subsection 4 are declared to be
municipal infractions pursuant to
Chapter 3.
 
Notes
4 †  EDITOR’S NOTE: See Subsection 4 for further provisions regarding
  consumption of alcoholic beverages by minors.
40.01.06   PUBLIC EXPOSURE.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall expose those parts of their
body hereinafter listed to another in any public place or in any place where
such exposure is seen by another person located in any public place:
   1.   The pubic hair, pubes, perineum, or anus of a male or female, the penis
or scrotum of a male, or the vagina of a female, excepting such body parts of
prepubescent infants of either sex.
   This section does not apply to limited or minimal exposures incident to the
use of public restrooms or locker rooms or such other places where such
exposures occur incident to the prescribed use of those facilities. This
section does not apply to exposures occurring in live stage places, live
theatrical performances, or live dance performances conducted in a theatre,
concert hall, or similar establishment which is primarily devoted to theatrical
performances.
CHAPTER 40 - PUBLIC OFFENSES
SUBCHAPTER 40.02
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
 
                                                            40.02.08 Abandoned
40.02.01 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  or Unattended
                                                            Refrigerators
40.02.02 False Reports to or Communications with Public     40.02.09 Antenna
Safety Entities                                             and Radio Wires
40.02.03 Providing False Identification Information         40.02.10 Urinating
                                                            and Defecating
40.02.04 Refusing to Assist Officer                         40.02.11 Fireworks
40.02.05 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        40.02.12 Littering
                                                            Prohibited
                                                            40.02.13 Smoking
40.02.06 Interference with Official Acts                    and Tobacco Use
                                                            Prohibited at City
                                                            Facilities
40.02.07 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control 40.02.14 Failure to
Device                                                      Assist
 
40.02.01   DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any
corrosive, caustic, poisonous, or other injurious substance unless the person
delivers such into the hands of a competent person or otherwise takes
reasonable precautions that the substance will not be taken by children or
animals from the place where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
40.02.02   FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
   No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
   1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department,
a law enforcement authority, or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
   2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that they are
not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
   3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
40.02.03   PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
   No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
40.02.04   REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
40.02.05   HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer
or employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
40.02.06   INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
   No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to
be a peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A
of the Code of Iowa, medical examiner, or firefighter, whether paid or
volunteer, or a person performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303
(4) of the Code of Iowa, in the performance of any act that is within the scope
of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care
provider, medical examiner, or firefighter, or person performing bailiff
duties, or shall knowingly resist or obstruct the service or execution by any
authorized person of any civil or criminal process or order of any court. The
terms “resist” and “obstruct” as used in this section do not include verbal
harassment unless the verbal harassment is accompanied by a present ability and
apparent intention to execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
40.02.07   REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
   No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
40.02.08   ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
   No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
40.02.09   ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
   It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2))
40.02.10   URINATING AND DEFECATING.
   It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk,
street, alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building,
including but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway,
doorway, or window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
40.02.11   FIREWORKS.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
   1.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
      A.   “Consumer fireworks” means the following fireworks, as described in
Chapter 3 of the American Pyrotechnics Association (“APA”) Standard 87-1:
         (1)   First-class consumer fireworks:
a.   Aerial shell kits and reloadable tubes;
b.   Chasers;
c.   Helicopters and aerial spinners;
d.   Firecrackers;
e.   Mine and shell devices;
f.   Missile-type rockets;
g.   Roman candles;
h.   Sky rockets and bottle rockets;
i.   Multiple tube devices under this paragraph which are manufactured in
accordance with APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.5.
         (2)   Second-class consumer fireworks:
a.   Cone fountains;
b.   Cylindrical fountains;
c.   Flitter sparklers;
d.   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices, including multiple tube ground and
hand-held sparkling devices that are manufactured in accordance with APA
Standard 87-1, Section 3.5;
e.   Ground spinners;
f.   Illuminating torches;
g.   Toy smoke devices that are not classified as novelties pursuant to APA
Standard 87-1, Section 3.2;
h.   Wheels;
i.   Wire or dipped sparklers that are not classified as novelties pursuant to
APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.2.
      B.   “Display fireworks” includes any explosive composition, or
combination of explosive substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration,
or detonation, and includes fireworks containing any explosive or flammable
compound, or other device containing any explosive substance. “Display
fireworks” does not include novelties or consumer fireworks enumerated in
Chapter 3 of the APA Standard 87-1.
      C.   “Novelties” includes all novelties enumerated in Chapter 3 of the
APA Standard 87-1, and that comply with the labeling regulations promulgated by
the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission.
   2.   Display Fireworks. It is unlawful for any person to use or explode any
display fireworks; provided, the Council may, upon application in writing,
grant a permit for the display of display fireworks by municipalities, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of individuals
approved by the City when the display fireworks will be handled by a competent
operator,   but no such permit shall be required for the display of display
fireworks at the State Fairgrounds by the State Fair Board, at incorporated
county fairs, or at district fairs receiving State aid. No permit shall be
granted hereunder unless the operator or sponsoring organization has filed with
the City evidence of insurance in the following amounts:
      A.   Personal Injury:   $250,000.00 per person.
      B.   Property Damage:   $50,000.00.
      C.   Total Exposure:   $1,000,000.00.
   3.   Consumer Fireworks.
      A.   Except between 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on July 3 (or 9:00 a.m. and
11:00 p.m. if July 3 falls on a Saturday or Sunday), and except between 9:00
a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on July 4, and except between 9:00 a.m. and 11:59 p.m. on
December 31 and except between 12:00 a.m. and 12:30 a.m. on January 1, it shall
be unlawful for any person to use or explode any explosive, explosive material,
First-Class Consumer Fireworks, or Second-Class Consumer Fireworks within the
corporate limits of the City.
      B.   No person under the age of 18 shall discharge consumer fireworks
without parental supervision.
      C.   Consumer fireworks shall not be discharged by persons showing
visible signs of, or determined to be, intoxicated or under the influence of a
drug or narcotic.
      D.   Any person discharging a consumer fireworks device assumes all
responsibility for its operation and the consequences thereof. No person shall
discharge a consumer fireworks device in a reckless manner or manner likely to
cause death, injury, fire, or property damage.
      E.   It shall be unlawful to alter, remove, or discharge components of a
consumer fireworks device from its intended method of discharging.
      F.   A person shall not use consumer fireworks on real property other
than that person’s real property or on the real property of a person who has
consented to the use of consumer fireworks on that property. Unless
specifically authorized through the issuance of a City permit, the use of
fireworks is strictly prohibited on property owned by the City, including, but
not limited to, parks, streets, trails, City Hall, public safety, and any other
property owned by the City.
   4.   Sale of Fireworks.
      A.   Prior to any person engaging in the sale of consumer fireworks, the
following shall be provided to the Fire Chief:
         (1)   License. Proof of valid license issued from the State Fire
Marshal.
         (2)   Liability Insurance. Proof of liability insurance separate from
the building property insurance specifically showing coverage of fireworks
sales for an aggregate amount of $2,000,000.
         (3)   Fire Inspection. Any property, building, or premise, whether it
be permanent or temporary, intended for the sale of consumer fireworks shall
have an initial fire inspection completed by the Fire Chief prior to engaging
in the sale of consumer fireworks. The Fire Chief, or their designee, shall
cause an annual inspection to occur meeting the requirements of the National
Fire Protection Code 1124 (2006 edition) and the current Fire Code adopted by
the City. Inspection costs shall be assessed as follows:
            a.   Permanent structure where fireworks are sold - annual
inspection fee of $100.00.
            b.   Temporary or non-brick or mortar building where fireworks are
sold - annual inspection fee of $200.00.
      B.   Safety Requirements. The following safety requirements shall be
adopted for all locations where consumer fireworks are sold:
         (1)   All transportation, storage, and sales of consumer fireworks
shall conform to the safety standards set forth by the National Fire Protection
Code 1124 (2006 Edition), including, but not limited to, those standards
concerning separation distance requirements and aggregate weight limits.
         (2)   Smoking, open flame source, or matches shall not be located
within 50 feet where consumer fireworks are sold. The following exemptions
apply:
            a.   Lighters and matches may be sold as part of a retail business
in commercial structures who engage in other merchandise sales where consumer
fireworks are not the primary business.
            b.   Locations that engage in consumer fireworks sales as a primary
source of revenue may sell extended lighters so long as lighters are located in
a sealed package and not opened within the store premises.
         (3)   All electrical wiring shall meet NFPA 70 National Electrical
Code. Permanent structures or buildings used primarily for consumer fireworks
sales shall meet wiring requirements for a hazardous location, including
covered light fixtures to avoid sparks upon failure or damage to lights.
         (4)   Locations shall maintain 48-inch clear aisles between consumer
fireworks display shelves.
         (5)   Locations shall maintain two approved exits for egress during an
emergency. All approved exits shall be clearly marked with signage; except
that, exit signs shall be illuminated in permanent structures.
         (6)   Consumer fireworks sales shall only be permitted in a single
story at grade building or structure to facilitate easy exiting during an
emergency.
         (7)   Locations shall have a minimum of two 10-pound ABC rated fire
extinguishers mounted in accordance with NFPA 10. Additional fire extinguishers
shall be placed in locations to prevent travel distance exceeding 75 feet in
order to reach a fire extinguisher.
         (8)   All doors used as service doors outside the view of a clerk
shall be locked to prevent unauthorized persons from entering the building
unnoticed. If doors are approved exit doors as part of the two approved exits
needed, they shall be operable without special tools, keys, or knowledge.
Delayed or alarmed egress doors are permitted so long as release is activated
within eight seconds.
         (9)   No persons under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or narcotics
shall be allowed to remain in the business where consumer fireworks are sold as
a primary business.
         (10)   Any person engaged in consumer firework sales in any other zone
other than commercial and industrial zoned areas shall not be approved for
sales within the City limits.
         (11)   No person shall sell a DOT 1.4 Class Consumer Firework to a
person under the age of 18.
         (12)   Consumer fireworks shall not be sold to an intoxicated person
or to any person whom a reasonable person would believe may be impaired by
other substances.
      C.   This section does not prohibit the sale by a resident, dealer,
manufacturer, or jobber of such fireworks as are not prohibited; or the sale of
any kind of fireworks if they are to be shipped out of State; or the sale or
use of blank cartridges for a show or theatre, or for signal purposes in
athletic sports, or by railroads or trucks for signal purposes, or by a
recognized military organization. This section does not apply to any substance
or composition prepared and sold for medicinal or fumigation purposes.
   5.   Novelties. This section does not apply to novelties.
40.02.12   LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)
40.02.13   SMOKING AND TOBACCO USE PROHIBITED AT CITY FACILITIES.
   1.   Definitions.
      A.   City Facilities. The term “City facilities” means all property,
whether or not enclosed, under the control of the City. City facilities
include, but are not limited to, all: work areas; employee lounges; restrooms;
conference rooms; classrooms; cafeterias; meeting rooms; elevators; stairways;
parking garages; parking lots; vehicles and equipment owned, rented, or leased
by the City; and any public or private area open to the public for recreational
purposes, such as fairgrounds; athletic fields; beaches; gardens; parks;
parklets; plazas; skate parks; swimming pools; trails; outdoor picnic tables;
and grassy areas. City facilities do not include streets and sidewalks used
only as pedestrian or vehicular thoroughfares, unless otherwise prohibited by
this section or other law.
      B.   Electronic Smoking Device. The term “electronic smoking device”
means any device that can be used to deliver aerosolized or vaporized nicotine
or other substance to the person inhaling from the device, including, but not
limited to, an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, vape pen, or e-hookah.
      C.   Smoking. The term “smoking” means inhaling, exhaling, burning, or
carrying any lighted or heated cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other lighted or
heated tobacco, nicotine, or plant product intended for inhalation, including
hookah and marijuana, whether natural or synthetic. “Smoking” also includes the
use of an electronic smoking device.
      D.   Tobacco Product. The term “tobacco product” means any product that
is made from or derived from tobacco, or that contains nicotine, that is
intended for human consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether smoked,
heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, or ingested by any other means,
including, but not limited to, a cigarette, a cigar, pipe tobacco, chewing
tobacco, snuff, or snus. “Tobacco product” also includes electronic smoking
devices. “Tobacco product” does not include drugs, devices, or combination
products authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as those
terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   2.   Smoking and Tobacco Use Prohibited. Smoking and tobacco use is
prohibited in all City facilities at all times. No person shall smoke, use,
sell, or distribute any tobacco product at or on any City facilities.
   3.   Violations. Violations of this section are declared to be municipal
infractions pursuant to Chapter 3. Any person who smokes or uses tobacco in an
area where smoking and tobacco use is prohibited by the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a municipal infraction, punishable by a fine set in
the fee schedule.
40.02.14   FAILURE TO ASSIST.
   A person who reasonably believes another person is suffering from a risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death shall, if the person is able,
attempt to contact local law enforcement or local emergency response
authorities, if doing so does not place the person or other person at risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death. No person shall without
lawful cause violate the provisions of this section. A person shall not be
required to contact local law enforcement or emergency response authorities if
the person knows or reasonably believes that the other person is not in need of
help or assistance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.12)
CHAPTER 40 - PUBLIC OFFENSES
SUBCHAPTER 40.03
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
40.03.01 Trespassing                40.03.06 Use of Streets
40.03.02 Criminal Mischief          40.03.07 Picketing of a Residence or
                                    Dwellings
40.03.03 Defacing Proclamations or  40.03.08 Use of Public Property for Drug
Notices                             Trafficking
40.03.04 Fraud and Theft            40.03.09 Graffiti Prohibited
40.03.05 Coasters and Roller Skates 40.03.10 Other Public Property Offenses
 
40.03.01   TRESPASSING.
   1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8(1))
   2.   Definitions. The following terms have been defined for use in this
section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(1))
      A.   “Property” means any land, dwelling, building, conveyance, vehicle,
or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or privately owned.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(1)(a))
      B.   “Public utility” means a public utility as defined in Section 476.1
of the Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478
of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(1)(b))
      C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(1)(c))
      D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person
owning, leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this
State.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(1)(d))
      E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property
owned, leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(1)(e))
      F.   “Reasonable expectation of privacy” means circumstances in which a
reasonable person would believe that the person could disrobe or partially
disrobe in privacy, without being concerned that the person disrobing or
partially disrobing was being viewed, photographed, or filmed when doing so.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(1)(f))
      G.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(a))
         (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of
the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(a)(1))
         (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any police [peace] officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to
supervise the use or maintenance of the property. A person has been notified or
requested to abstain from entering or remaining upon or in property within the
meaning of this subparagraph if any of the following are applicable:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(a)(2))
            a.   The person has been notified to abstain from entering or
remaining upon or in property personally, either orally or in writing,
including by a valid court order under Chapter 236 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(a)(2)(a))
            b.   A printed or written notice forbidding such entry has been
conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to the property or the
forbidden part of the property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(a)(2)(b))
         (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect
of unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(a)(3))
         (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing
therefrom, altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein
anything animate or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(a)(4))
         (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This subparagraph does not apply to passage
over a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct,
bridge, trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not
been notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(a)(5))
         (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This subparagraph does not
apply to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has
not been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(a)(6))
   3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(b))
      A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(b)(1))
      B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(b)(2))
      C.   This section shall not apply to the following persons:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(3))
         (1)   Representatives of the State Department of Transportation, the
Federal Railroad Administration, or the National Transportation Safety Board
who enter or remain upon or in railway property while engaged in the
performance of official duties.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(3)(a))
         (2)   Employees of a railway corporation who enter or remain upon or
in railway property while acting in the course of employment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(3)(b))
         (3)   Any person who is engaged in the operation of a lawful business
on railway station ground or in the railway depot.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(3)(c))
         (4)   Representatives of the State Utilities Commission, the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission, or the Federal Communications Commission who
enter or remain upon or in public utility property while engaged in the
performance of official duties.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(3)(d))
         (5)   Employees of a public utility who enter or remain upon or in
public utility property while acting in the course of employment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(3)(e))
40.03.02   CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
40.03.03   DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
   It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down,
or destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement, or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
40.03.04   FRAUD AND THEFT.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice in the fifth
degree as defined in Sections 714.8 and 714.13 of the Code of Iowa, or to
commit theft in the fifth degree as defined in Sections 714.1 and 714.2 of the
Code of Iowa. A person commits theft when the person does any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
   1.   Takes possession or control of the property of another, or property in
the possession of another, with the intent to deprive the other thereof.
   2.   Misappropriates property which the person has in trust, or property of
another which the person has in the person’s possession or control, whether
such possession or control is lawful or unlawful, by using or disposing of it
in a manner which is inconsistent with or a denial of the trust or of the
owner’s rights in such property, or conceals found property, or appropriates
such property to the person’s own use, when the owner of such property is known
to the person.
   3.   Obtains the labor or services of another, or a transfer of possession,
control, or ownership of the property of another, or the beneficial use of
property of another, by deception.
   4.   Exercises control over stolen property, knowing such property to have
been stolen, or having reasonable cause to believe that such property has been
stolen, unless the person’s purpose is to promptly restore it to the owner or
to deliver it to an appropriate public officer.
   5.   Takes, destroys, conceals, or disposes of property in which someone
else has a security interest, with intent to defraud the secured party.
   6.   Makes, utters, draws, delivers, or gives any check, share draft, draft,
or written order on any bank, credit union, person or corporation, and obtains
property, the use of property, including rental property, or service in
exchange for such instrument, if the person knows that such check, share draft,
draft or written order will not be paid when presented.
   7.   Obtains gas, electricity, or water from a public utility or obtains
cable television or telephone service from an unauthorized connection to the
supply or service line or by intentionally altering, adjusting, removing, or
tampering with the metering or service device so as to cause inaccurate
readings.
   8.   Knowingly and without authorization accesses or causes to be accessed a
computer, computer system, or computer network, or any part thereof, for the
purpose of obtaining computer services, information, or property or knowingly
and without authorization and with the intent to permanently deprive the owner
of possession, takes, transfers, conceals, or retains possession of a computer,
computer system, or computer network or any computer software or computer
program, or computer data contained in a computer, computer system, or computer
network.
   9.   Obtains the temporary use of video rental property with the intent to
deprive the owner of the use and possession of the video rental property
without the consent of the owner, or lawfully obtains the temporary use of
video rental property and fails to return the video rental property by the
agreed time with the intent to deprive the owner of the use and possession of
the video rental property without the consent of the owner. The aggregate value
of the video rental property involved shall be the original retail value of the
video rental property.
   10.   Any act that is declared to be theft by any provision of the Code of
Iowa.
40.03.05   COASTERS AND ROLLER SKATES.
No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, or similar device shall go upon any roadway, except when crossing a
street on a crosswalk.
40.03.06   USE OF STREETS.
   1.   Removal of Warning Devices. It is unlawful for a person to willfully
remove, throw down, destroy, or carry away from any street or alley any lamp,
obstruction, guard, or other article or things, or extinguish any lamp or other
light, erected or placed thereupon for the purpose of guarding or enclosing
unsafe or dangerous places in said street or alley without the consent of the
person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
   2.   Obstructing or Defacing. It is unlawful for any person to obstruct,
deface, or injure any street or alley in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
   3.   Placing Debris On. It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on
any street or alley any glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash,
garbage, rubbish, litter, offal, leaves, grass, or any other debris likely to
be washed into the storm sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance
likely to injure any person, animal, or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
   4.   Playing In. It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games
on streets or alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such
purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2))
   5.   Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley. It is unlawful for any person
to travel or operate any vehicle on any street or alley temporarily closed by
barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed thereon by the authority or
permission of any City official, police officer, or member of the Fire
Department.
   6.   Use for Business Purposes. It is unlawful to park, store, or place,
temporarily or permanently, any machinery or junk or any other goods, wares,
and merchandise of any kind upon any street or alley for the purpose of
storage, exhibition, sale or offering same for sale, without permission of the
Council.
   7.   Washing Vehicles. It is unlawful for any person to use any public
sidewalk, street, or alley for the purpose of washing or cleaning any
automobile, truck equipment, or any vehicle of any kind when such work is done
for hire or as a business. This does not prevent any person from washing or
cleaning their own vehicle or equipment when it is lawfully parked in the
street or alley.
   8.   Burning Prohibited. No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or
other combustible material in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced
street or alley.
40.03.07   PICKETING OF A RESIDENCE OR DWELLING.
It is unlawful for any person to engage in focused picketing before, about, or
immediately adjacent to the residential lot or dwelling of any individual in
the City.
   1.   For the purpose of this section, “before, about, or immediately
adjacent to” means:
      A.   Within one house on either side of the targeted residential lot or
dwelling; or
      B.   On any public property immediately adjacent to the targeted
residential lot or dwelling; or
      C.   On any public property directly across the street from the targeted
residential lot or dwelling.
   2.   For the purpose of this section, “focused picketing” means any
picketing or organized demonstration that is intended or can be reasonably
viewed as one or more of the following:
      A.   Intended or reasonably calculated to cause emotional distress or
disturbance to the occupants of the targeted residential lot or dwelling; or
      B.   Causing emotional distress or disturbance to the occupants of the
targeted residential lot or dwelling; or
      C.   Intended or reasonably calculated to disturb the sense of peace and
tranquility of the occupants of the targeted residential lot or dwelling; or
      D.   Causing a disturbance to the sense of peace and tranquility of the
occupants of the targeted residential lot or dwelling.
40.03.08   USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY FOR DRUG TRAFFICKING.
   1.   No person shall behave in or upon any public property in a manner in
and under circumstances by which they manifest the purpose of inducing,
inviting, enticing, persuading, soliciting, or procuring another to conduct an
illegal drug transaction.
   2.   The violator’s conduct must be such as to demonstrate a specific intent
to induce, invite, entice, persuade, solicit, or procure another to conduct an
illegal drug transaction.
   3.   Intent to induce, invite, entice, persuade, solicit, or procure another
to conduct an illegal drug transaction shall be shown by specific acts which
may, but need not, include any of the following:
      A.   Repeatedly beckoning to, stopping, or attempting to stop or engage
passersby in conversation; or
      B.   Repeatedly stopping or attempting to stop motor vehicle operators by
hailing, waving of arms, or any other bodily gesture; or
      C.   Repeatedly interfering with the free passage of other persons.
40.03.09   GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   No person shall, by use of any substance whatsoever, including spray paint,
inscribe graffiti upon any structure, sidewalk, street surface, or other public
or private property.
40.03.10   OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
The following chapters of this Code contain regulations prohibiting or
restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed to be public
property offenses:
   1.   Chapter 52 – Abandoned Vehicles.
   2.   Chapter 53 – Litter Control.
   3.   Chapter 54 – Noise Control.
   4.   Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling.
   5.   Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations.
      A.   Section 136.16 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements.
      B.   Section 136.20 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks.
      C.   Section 136.21 – Defacing.
      D.   Section 136.22 – Debris on Sidewalks.
      E.   Section 136.24 – Merchandise Display.
      F.   Section 136.25 – Sales Stands.
CHAPTER 40 - PUBLIC OFFENSES
SUBCHAPTER 40.04
DRUGS AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
 
40.04.01 Purpose                      40.04.05 Possession of Drug Paraphernalia
40.04.02 Controlled Substance Defined 40.04.06 Manufacture, Delivery, or
                                      Offering For Sale
40.04.03 Drug Paraphernalia Defined   40.04.07 Possession of a Controlled
                                      Substance
40.04.04 Determining Factors
 
40.04.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit the use, possession with intent
to use, manufacture, and delivery of drug paraphernalia as defined herein.
40.04.02   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE DEFINED.
   The term “controlled substance” as used in this chapter is defined as the
term “controlled substance” is defined in the Uniform Controlled Substance Act,
Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa, as it now exists or is hereafter amended.
40.04.03   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA DEFINED.
The term “drug paraphernalia” as used in this chapter means all equipment,
products, and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use, or
designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, concealing, containing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act,
Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa. It includes, but is not limited to:
   1.   Growing Kits. Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting of any species of
plant which is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can
be derived.
   2.   Processing Kits. Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing
controlled substances.
   3.   Isomerization Devices. Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or
designed for use in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a
controlled substance.
   4.   Testing Equipment. Testing equipment used, intended for use, or
designed for use in identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or
purity of controlled substances.
   5.   Scales. Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances.
   6.   Diluents. Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose, or lactose, used, intended for use, or designed
for use in cutting controlled substances.
   7.   Separators; Sifters. Separation gins and sifters used, intended for
use, or designed for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise
cleaning or refining marijuana.
   8.   Mixing Devices. Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and mixing devices
used, intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled
substances.
   9.   Containers. Capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers used,
intended for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances.
   10.   Storage Containers. Containers and other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in storing or concealing controlled substances.
   11.   Injecting Devices. Hypodermic syringes, needles, and other objects
used, intended for use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting
controlled substances into the human body.
   12.   Ingesting-Inhaling Device. Objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing heroin, marijuana,
cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human body, such as:
      A.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes with
or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls;
      B.   Water pipes;
      C.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
      D.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
      E.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials, such as
a marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held in the
hand;
      F.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
      G.   Chamber pipes;
      H.   Carburetor pipes;
      I.   Electric pipes;
      J.   Air driven pipes;
      K.   Chillums;
      L.   Bongs;
      M.   Ice pipes or chillers.
40.04.04   DETERMINING FACTORS.
In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia for the purpose of
enforcing this chapter, the following factors should be considered in addition
to all other logically relevant factors:
   1.   Statements. Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the
object concerning its use.
   2.   Prior Convictions. Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or of anyone
in control of the object under any State or federal law relating to any
controlled substance.
   3.   Proximity to Violation. The proximity of the object, in time and space,
to a direct violation of the Uniform Controlled Substance Act, Chapter 124 of
the Code of Iowa.
   4.   Proximity to Substances. The proximity of the object to controlled
substances.
   5.   Residue. The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object.
   6.   Evidence of Intent. Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of
an owner or of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom
he or she knows, or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to
facilitate a violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124 of
the Code of Iowa.
   7.   Innocence of an Owner. The innocence of an owner, or of anyone in
control of the object, as to a direct violation of the Uniform Controlled
Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa, should not prevent a finding
that the object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   8.   Instructions. Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use.
   9.   Descriptive Materials. Descriptive materials accompanying the object
explaining or depicting its use.
   10.   Advertising. National and local advertising concerning its use.
   11.   Displayed. The manner in which the object is displayed for sale.
   12.   Licensed Distributor or Dealer. Whether the owner, or anyone in
control of the object, is a legitimate supplier of like or related items to the
community, such as a licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products.
   13.   Sales Ratios. Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales
of the objects to the total sales of the business enterprise.
   14.   Legitimate Uses. The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the
object in the community.
   15.   Expert Testimony. Expert testimony concerning its use.
40.04.05   POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into
the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled
Substance Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.
40.04.06   MANUFACTURE, DELIVERY, OR OFFERING FOR SALE.
   It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver,
manufacture with intent to deliver, or offer for sale drug paraphernalia,
intending that the drug paraphernalia will be used, or knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know that it will be used, or knowing
that it is designed for use to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Uniform
Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.
40.04.07   POSSESSION OF A CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.
   It is unlawful to be in possession of a controlled substance in violation of
the Uniform Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 40 – PUBLIC OFFENSES
SUBCHAPTER 40.05
WEAPONS
 
40.05.01 Lasers and Simulated Laser   40.05.05 Slings and Slingshots
Devices
40.05.02 Sale or Exchange of Daggers, 40.05.06 Bows and Arrows
Brass Knuckles
40.05.03 Knives on School Property    40.05.07 Throwing and Shooting;
                                      Discharging Weapons
40.05.04 Blowguns                     40.05.08 Furnishing Weapons to Minors
 
40.05.01   LASERS AND SIMULATED LASER DEVICES.   
   1.   Definitions. Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly
indicates a different intention, the following terms, for the purpose of this
section, have the meanings given in this subsection.
      A.   “Laser” means any pointing device, siting device, or other device
that converts incident electromagnetic radiation of mixed frequencies to one or
more discrete frequencies of highly amplified and coherent visible radiation.
This includes any device that emits light amplified by the stimulated emission
of radiation that is visible to the human eye.
      B.   “Minor” means any person under 18 years of age.
      C.   “School or other educational facility” means the buildings, grounds,
or facilities (or any portion thereof) owned, occupied by, or under the custody
or control of public or private institutions for the primary purpose of
providing educational or recreational instruction to students.
      D.   “Simulated laser” means any pointing device, siting device, or other
device that emits a beam of light similar in effect or appearance to that of a
laser.
      E.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is, or may be, transported or drawn upon a street, including motor
vehicles, motorcycles, and bicycles.
   2.   Pointing of Lasers at Individuals. No person shall use a laser or
simulated laser in such a manner as to cause the beam of such laser or
simulated laser to come into direct contact with another individual. A
violation of this provision shall be classified as an “assault” under Section
40.01.01 and shall be punishable accordingly.
   3.   Pointing of Lasers at a Police Officer or Emergency Service Provider.
No person shall use a laser or simulated laser in such a manner as to cause the
beam of such laser or simulated laser to come into direct contact with a law
enforcement official, uniformed police officer, uniformed traffic enforcement
officer, uniformed member of a paid or volunteer fire department, uniformed
emergency medical service worker, uniformed ambulance worker, or other
uniformed City, County, State, or federal peace officer, investigator, or
emergency service worker. A violation of this provision shall be classified as
an “assault” under Section
40.01.01. Any person found guilty of this provision shall be punished with the
maximum fine allowed by law.
   4.   Pointing of Lasers at a Vehicle. No person shall use a laser or
simulated laser in such a manner as to cause the beam of such laser or
simulated laser to come into direct contact with a vehicle. For purposes of
this provision, the term “vehicle” includes only those vehicles being operated
on a public street at the time the vehicle comes into contact with any laser or
simulated laser. A violation of this provision shall be classified as
“harassment” under Section
40.01.02 and shall be punishable accordingly.
   5.   Pointing of Lasers at Police or Emergency Service Vehicles. No person
shall use a laser or simulated laser in such a manner as to cause the beam of
such laser or simulated laser to come into direct contact with a vehicle being
operated by a law enforcement official, uniformed police officer, uniformed
traffic enforcement officer, uniformed member of a paid or volunteer fire
department, uniformed emergency medical service worker, uniformed ambulance
worker or other uniformed City, County, State, or federal peace officer,
investigator, emergency service worker, or law enforcement official on duty and
performing official acts with the City. A violation of this provision shall be
classified as “harassment” under Section
40.01.02. Any person found guilty of this provision shall be punished with the
maximum fine allowed by law.
   6.   Pointing of Lasers at a Public Facility. No person shall use a laser or
simulated laser in such a manner as to cause the beam of such laser or
simulated laser to come into direct contact with any facility, property, or
equipment owned or operated by the City or any other governmental entity. A
violation of this provision shall be classified as “harassment” under Section
40.01.02. Any person found guilty of this provision shall be punished with the
maximum fine allowed by law.
   7.   Use of Lasers by Minors. No person shall furnish to any minor by gift,
sale, or otherwise, any laser or simulated laser unless:
      A.   Said minor is on the property of a school or other educational
facility and actually participating in a supervised school program at the time
the minor is given actual possession of the laser or simulated laser; or
      B.   Said minor is using the laser or simulated laser on private property
and in the direct supervision of an adult.
40.05.02   SALE OR EXCHANGE OF DAGGERS, BRASS KNUCKLES.
   No person shall exhibit for sale, exchange, gift, or any other purpose, in
any showcase, show window, or other place, exposed to public view, any dagger,
Bowie knife, stiletto, butterfly knife, switchblade knife, or other knife or
instrument which opens by hand pressure applied to a button or other device in
the handle of the knife or by operation of inertia, gravity, or both, throwing
stars, or any other martial arts weapon, brass knuckles, or knuckles of lead,
brass, or other metal or materials; or display any sign, poster, cartoon, or
card, suggesting the keeping for sale, exchange, or gift of any of the above
described sections. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the
display of such articles for educational or historical purposes.
40.05.03   KNIVES ON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   No person shall possess, own, or carry, on or about their person, whether
concealed or not, any knife on primary or secondary school property within the
City, with the exception of a knife or knives furnished by such school system
or specifically authorized by such school system, and then only in connection
with the specific activity for which so authorized.
40.05.04   BLOWGUNS.
   No person shall use any blowgun or similar device, or throw any stone,
stick, or other substance in such a manner as to hit, injure, or endanger any
person, window, or other property.
40.05.05   SLINGS AND SLINGSHOTS.
   No person shall keep, possess, sell, give, use, fire, shoot, or discharge
any sling, slingshot, wrist slingshot, or wrist-supported slingshot of any type
or kind within the corporate limits.
40.05.06   BOWS AND ARROWS.
No person shall shoot a bow and arrow, except pursuant to the following
subsections, within the City or within a City-owned park, without permission
from the Police Chief. Such permission shall limit the time and place of
shooting and may be revoked by the Police Chief. To “shoot a bow and arrow”
means to place a nock of the arrow in the string of a bow or of any other
object and to release the arrow in such fashion that when the string is pulled
and released, the arrow thrusts forward.
   1.   General Regulations. No person shall shoot a bow and arrow within the
City or in a City-owned park, except as follows:
      A.   Any person may participate in a supervised program of physical
education or competitive sports in a public or private school or in a City park
area designated by the City.
      B.   Any person may shoot a bow and arrow at a public or private lane or
range that has been certified by the Archery Lane Operators Association or the
National Field Archery Association.
      C.   Any participant may shoot a bow and arrow in a tournament which
either has been approved by the City Administrator at least one week prior to
the time of the tournament and for which tournament rules have been submitted
to the City Administrator or is conducted at a licensed lane or range.
      D.   Any person may shoot a bow and arrow on private or school property
provided the requirements of the following subsection are met.
   2.   Use of Bows and Arrows on Private Property. No person shall shoot a bow
and arrow in such fashion that it travels beyond the boundaries of the private
or school property on which the person is shooting. Any person shooting a bow
and arrow on private or school property shall direct the arrow toward a
backdrop composed of a substance which will not allow the arrow to pass
through, and such backdrop must extend at least five feet beyond the target on
the top and both sides and must extend from the bottom of the target to the
ground. The target shall be constructed and installed so that the target face
cannot move more than two inches in any direction.
   3.   Use of Bows and Arrows for Hunts. No person shall shoot a bow and arrow
within the City limits or in a City-owned park at any living being such as an
animal, bird, fish, or fowl.
   4.   Use of Bows and Arrows by Minors. No person shall furnish to any minor
under 15 years of age by gift, sale, or otherwise, any arrows or components
thereof unless said minor is participating in a supervised school program or is
practicing at an approved public or private archery lane or range or is
practicing on the private property of the supervising adult.
40.05.07   THROWING AND SHOOTING; DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
   It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind
or to shoot, fire, or discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers, pistols, guns, air
guns, BB guns, or firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
authorization of the Council. The term “air gun” means any gun, including
handguns, capable of propelling a pellet or other projectile from the barrel of
such gun by non-explosive means, such as compressed air, CO2, or other gas. The
term “BB gun” means any such gun capable of propelling a BB or other projectile
from the barrel by means of a spring mechanism or air. The terms “shoot,”
“fire,” and “discharge” mean the act of triggering the mechanism of such air
gun or BB gun so that it propels a pellet, BB or other projectile from the
barrel of such gun.
40.05.08   FURNISHING WEAPONS TO MINORS.
   No person shall give, sell, lend, or provide to any person under the age of
18 years any sword, dirk, dagger, or knife other than an ordinary penknife or
pocketknife with a blade not to exceed three inches in length, or any spring
blade, switch blade, or snap blade knife, or any blackjack, bludgeon, or
similar weapon, or metallic knuckles, or any firearm, air gun, or other missile
throwing device, or any ammunition or missiles for use therewith, or any
explosive substance or device, or any other device designed primarily for use
as a weapon; provided, however, arms, ammunition, and other equipment for
hunting, fishing, and other lawful sports may be furnished to a person under
the age of 18 years by or with the consent of that person’s parent or guardian.
No minor under 18 years of age shall possess, own, or carry on or about their
person, whether concealed or not, within the City any knife which opens by hand
pressure applied to a button, lever, switch, or other device in the handle of
the knife or by operation of inertia, gravity, or both. No person under the age
of 18 shall shoot, fire, or discharge any air gun or BB gun unless under the
direct supervision of an adult.
CHAPTER 40 - PUBLIC OFFENSES
SUBCHAPTER 40.06
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
40.06.01 Persons Under Legal Age 40.06.03 Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
40.06.02 Public Consumption or   40.06.04 Prohibited Sales and Acts
Intoxication
 
40.06.01   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE. As used in this section, “legal age” means
21 years of age or more.  
   1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence, and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a retail alcohol licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47(3))
   2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for
the purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from
any retail alcohol licensee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(3))
40.06.02   PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
   1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
      A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of
Iowa and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
      B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine
to determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using
devices and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
      D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a
public or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through Grade 12.
   2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer upon
the public streets or highways. A person shall not use or consume alcoholic
liquor in any public place, except premises covered by a retail alcohol
license. A person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or beer
on public school property or while attending any public or private school-
related function. A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place.
   3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
   4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public
intoxication under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that
the person may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense.
If a device approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample
of a person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that needs to be offered the person arrested.
In a prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical
test performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
40.06.03   OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES. (See Sections 60.03.01(50) and
(51).)
40.06.04   PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
See Section
120.05 for restrictions imposed on persons or clubs holding a liquor license or
retail wine or beer permit.
CHAPTER 40 - PUBLIC OFFENSES
SUBCHAPTER 40.07
MINORS
 
40.07.01 Cigarettes and Tobacco      40.07.03 Persons Under Legal Age
40.07.02 Contributing to Delinquency
 
40.07.01   CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
   It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to purchase, or attempt
to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor
products, or cigarettes. It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
smoke, use, or possess any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, vapor products, or cigarettes. Possession of tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes by a
person under 21 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this section
if said person possesses the tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part of the person’s employment and
said person is employed by a person who holds a valid permit under Chapter 453A
of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for sale or sells cigarettes or
tobacco products.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
40.07.02   CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
   It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age
to commit any act of delinquency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)
40.07.03   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
   See Section
121.09 for provisions relating to persons selling, giving, or otherwise
supplying tobacco, tobacco products, or cigarettes to persons under 21 years of
age.
CHAPTER 40 - PUBLIC OFFENSES
SUBCHAPTER 40.08
PARK REGULATIONS
40.08.01 Park Hours                      40.08.12 Buildings and Animals
40.08.02 Park Shelter, Performance       40.08.13 Dogs and Pets
Pavilion, and Baseball Diamond Fees
40.08.03 Parking                         40.08.14 Posted Notices
40.08.04 Use of Drives Required          40.08.15 Unauthorized Signs
40.08.05 Public Meetings and Organized   40.08.16 Moving Benches and Tables
Uses
40.08.06 Destruction of Plant or Animal  40.08.17 Removal of Wood, Grass, or
Life                                     Gravel
40.08.07 Fires                           40.08.18 Golf Balls
40.08.08 Fireworks and Explosives        40.08.19 Power-Driven Model Airplanes
40.08.09 Waste Material and Littering    40.08.20 Responsibility of Parent or
                                         Guardian
                                         40.08.21 Roller Skates, Roller Blades,
40.08.10 Camping Areas                   Skateboards, Coasters, Scooters, and
                                         Bicycles
40.08.11 Disorderly and Obscene Conduct; 40.08.22 Misdemeanor
Nuisances
 
40.08.01   PARK HOURS.
No person shall remain in any public park, community center, or City
recreational facility during the periods of time set by this section unless
special permission shall have been given by the City Administrator for such
person or group of persons to remain there:
   1.   No person shall remain in or on any City park or the grounds thereof
from sunset to sunrise.
   2.   Any person can utilize any City trail 24 hours a day.
40.08.02   PARK SHELTER, PERFORMANCE PAVILION, AND BASEBALL DIAMOND FEES.
   The shelter house, performance pavilion and baseball diamond of the City
park located at 6900 School Street may each be reserved for meetings,
gatherings, and organized events, such as picnics, parties, and entertainment
for charitable purposes, upon receipt of signed rental agreement and payment of
a daily fee. Rental agreements may be electronically signed. Such assemblages
shall be conducted in a lawful and orderly manner. The rental fees for the use
of these facilities and associated amenities (such as audio-visual equipment)
are established by resolution of the Council.
40.08.03   PARKING.
   All vehicles parked in a park shall be parked in designated parking areas.
40.08.04   USE OF DRIVES REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive any vehicle, or ride or drive any horse, in any
portion of a park except upon the established drives or roadways therein or
such other places as may be officially designated by the City.
40.08.05   PUBLIC MEETINGS AND ORGANIZED USES.
   Public meetings, religious, political, or otherwise, including picnics,
parties, and entertainment for charitable or religious purposes, may be held in
any public park upon first obtaining permission from the City Administrator.
Such assemblages shall be conducted in a lawful and orderly manner, shall be
under the supervision of the City, and shall occupy such ground as may be
reserved for them. Permits shall be obtained from the City Administrator for
use of parks and facilities by organized groups for all such purposes including
athletic and sporting activities.
40.08.06   DESTRUCTION OF PLANT OR ANIMAL LIFE.
   No unauthorized person shall in any manner deface, injure, or remove any
tree, shrub, or plant standing or growing in any public park or recreation
facility, or pick or destroy any flowers or seeds growing therein. No persons,
except persons authorized, shall remove or attempt to remove, injure, or kill
any wild or captive animal in any public park or recreation facility.
40.08.07   FIRES.
   No person shall kindle, build, maintain, or in any way light a fire in any
public park in the City except in fireplaces provided, or in self-supporting
barbecue grills or stoves in places designated as picnic areas, or by special
written permit from the City Administrator after a determination that such fire
creates no hazards to the park or to persons in the immediate vicinity. No fire
shall be built within 10 feet of any tree or building or beneath the branches
of any tree or in any underbrush unless such fire is enclosed within a stove,
oven, or fireplace provided on the premises by the City for use in picnic
cooking. Any fire shall be continuously under the care and control of a
competent person; from the time it is kindled until it is extinguished.
40.08.08   FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   No person shall use firearms, explosives, weapons, firecrackers, or
fireworks of any character in any public park, except as otherwise provided by
ordinance.
40.08.09   WASTE MATERIAL AND LITTERING.
   No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter, or
foreign substance on the ground or in any area or receptacle in a park except
in receptacles provided for that purpose. Park waste receptacles shall not be
used for dumping trash or rubbish introduced in that form to the park.
40.08.10   CAMPING AREAS.
   No person shall camp in any portion of a park or right-of-way.
40.08.11   DISORDERLY AND OBSCENE CONDUCT; NUISANCES.
   No person shall use any loud, violent, obscene, or profane language while in
any public park, nor shall any person conduct themselves in a disorderly or
obscene manner or commit any nuisance therein.
40.08.12   BUILDINGS AND ANIMALS.
   No person shall disturb or interfere with any building or improvement of any
kind made or being made in or about any public park or disturb or interfere
with birds or animals kept or found therein.
40.08.13   DOGS AND PETS.
   No dog or pet shall be allowed to run at large in any public park. Any dog
or pet shall be deemed to be found running at large, unless the owner carries
such dog or pet or leads such dog or pet by a chain, strap, or rope not
exceeding six feet in length, or keeps any such dog or pet confined in an
automobile. However, any dog or pet especially trained to assist a blind or
partially blind person and accompanying such person shall not be deemed to be
running at large, even though restraints as described herein are not used. Such
person shall keep the guide dog under control and shall be liable for any
damage done to the premises or facilities by the dog or pet. The Police Chief
shall remove and impound any dog or pet running at large in any public park.
40.08.14   POSTED NOTICES.
   No person shall enter upon any land owned or leased to the City and under
its jurisdiction and conduct activities thereon in disregard of signs or posted
notices forbidding the same.
40.08.15   UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   No person shall post, paste, fasten, paint, or affix any non-City affiliated
placard, bill, notice, or sign upon any structure, tree, stone, fence, or
enclosure along or within any park.
40.08.16   MOVING BENCHES AND TABLES.
   No person shall move benches, seats, or tables from their places in any
park, except on picnic grounds.
40.08.17   REMOVAL OF WOOD, GRASS, OR GRAVEL.
   No person shall cut or remove any wood, turf, grass, soil, rock, sand, or
gravel from any public park without written permission from the Council.
40.08.18   GOLF BALLS.
   No one shall drive, hit, or play with a golf ball in any City park except in
an area clearly designated by a sign permitting such activity, posted in a
conspicuous place.
40.08.19   POWER-DRIVEN MODEL AIRPLANES.
   No one shall fly, glide, or play with a fuel-powered model airplane in any
City park except in an area clearly designated by a sign permitting such
activity, posted in a conspicuous place.
40.08.20   RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   No parent, guardian, or custodian of a minor shall allow the minor to do any
act prohibited by any provision of the rules set out by the provisions of this
subchapter.
40.08.21   ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER BLADES, SKATEBOARDS, COASTERS, SCOOTERS, AND
BICYCLES.
   No person shall ride in, ride upon, or in any manner operate any roller
skates, roller blades, skateboard, coaster, scooter, bicycle, or similar
devices in the following facilities: outdoor performance pavilion in Colby
Park. The provisions of this section shall not apply to wheelchairs or other
devices designed to aid handicapped or impaired persons when operated by a
handicapped or impaired person.
40.08.22   MISDEMEANOR.
   Any person who violates Sections
40.08.01 through
40.08.21 of this subchapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (See Fee
Schedule.)
CHAPTER 40 - PUBLIC OFFENSES
SUBCHAPTER 40.09
OTHER PUBLIC OFFENSES ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS
 
40.09.01 Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient 40.09.03 Sidewalk Regulations
Merchants
40.09.02 Adult Entertainment Facilities
 
40.09.01   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS.
   1.   Permit Required. See Section
122.02 for provisions relating to licenses required for persons engaged in
peddling and soliciting.
   2.   Display of Permit. See Section
122.07 for provisions requiring peddlers and solicitors to keep license
available.
   3.   Time Restrictions. See Section
122.09 for provisions relating to times when peddlers and solicitors may
operate.
40.09.02   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES.
   See
Chapter 125 for provisions relating to the operation of an adult entertainment
facility.
40.09.03   SIDEWALK REGULATIONS.
   1.   Interference with Sidewalk Improvements. See Section
136.11 for provisions relating to driving vehicles upon or removing,
destroying, marring, or defacing any part of a sidewalk.
   2.   Fires or Fuels. See Section
136.20 for provisions relating to fires or fuels on sidewalks.
   3.   Defacing. See Section
136.21 for provisions relating to painting or writing on sidewalks.
   4.   Debris. See Section
136.22 for provisions relating to throwing or depositing trash or debris of any
kind on sidewalks.
   5.   Merchandise Display. See Section
136.24 for provisions relating to sale of merchandise on sidewalks.
   6.   Sales Stands. See Section
136.25 for provisions relating to vending machines or other sales stands on
sidewalks.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01 Definition of Nuisance 50.05 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated   50.06 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
50.03 Nuisances Prohibited   50.07 Termination of Rental Certificate
50.04 Nuisance Abatement     50.08 Rebuttable Presumption
 
50.01   DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
   Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02   NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
   1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture which, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public.
   2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
   3.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the
water of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of others.
   4.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by trees,
hedges, fences, billboards, buildings, or other obstructions (including
moveable objects), the public roads, private ways, streets, alleys, commons,
landing places, or burying grounds. All obstructions, whether natural or
manmade, which hinder persons from having an adequate view of traffic so as to
prevent them from the continued safe travel on a public street.
   5.   Obstructing Air Traffic. Any object or structure erected within 1,000
feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or landing
place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-off and
landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or enjoyment
of the land on which the same is located.
   6.   Storing of Flammable Material. Depositing or storing of flammable
material, including, but not limited to, old rags, rope, cordage, rubber,
bones, and paper, by dealers in such articles within the fire limits of the
City, unless in a building of fireproof construction.
   7.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.
   8.   Weeds, Brush. Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other
vegetation in the City so as to constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard, or
which otherwise constitute a nuisance under this chapter. For purposes of this
subsection, all growths of grass or weeds in excess of six inches in height
shall be deemed to be a nuisance. Exempt from this subsection are growths used
primarily for educational and/or research purposes, so long as the growths are
controlled. Also exempt from this subsection is ornamental grass.
   9.   Sewage. The discharge or exposure of sewage, garbage, or any other
organic waste matter into or on any public place.
   10.   Poison. The deposit of any poisonous material or thing on any
premises, so as to allow access to it by any animal or person.
   11.   Stagnant Water. Breeding places for mosquitoes, to include stagnant
water in fishponds, swimming pools, tires, open barrels, and other devices
holding water.
   12.   Construction Debris. Depositing, or permitting to be deposited, dirt,
debris, or other sedimentation resultant from grading, construction,
demolition, or repair activities:
      A.   Onto public rights-of-way in amounts which could cause a danger to
public health, safety, or welfare; or
      B.   Into public storm sewers or drainage ways in amounts which could
cause an obstruction to the flow of same; or
      C.   Into a public stream, river, or lake in amounts which could cause
pollution of same.
   13.   Dangerous Structures. Residential or non-residential structures,
including those damaged by fire or decay, the condition of which constitutes a
hazard to safety or to health as determined by the Building Official.
   14.   Faulty Water Service. Discharge of water upon or under public streets
or sidewalks by reason of faulty water service.
   15.   Light Trespassing. No person shall permit artificial lighting, whether
located inside or outside a structure, to create direct glare or light trespass
onto adjacent residential property in a manner that interferes with the
reasonable use and enjoyment of that property, including but not limited to
direct glare, light spillover from windows, skylights or other openings onto
adjacent property from indoor and/or outdoor lighting fixtures that emit light
beyond their intended area.
   16.   Dangerous Machinery. All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public
place, or so situated or operated on private property as to attract the public.
   17.   Loose Overhanging Objects. Loose, overhanging objects or accumulations
of ice or snow, which by reason of location above ground level constitute a
danger of falling on persons in the vicinity thereof.
   18.   Fireworks. All use or display of fireworks, except as permitted by law
or this Code. The use of illegal fireworks will be deemed an immediate nuisance
and shall be subject to enforcement by municipal infraction.
   19.   Required Improvements. Failure to install any improvement required by
any portion of this Code, or other law or agreement.
   20.   Tree of Heaven. The Tree of Heaven is an invasive species and should
not be allowed to grow.
   21.   Nuisance Houses. Houses that require more than one police response to
the same location or address within a 180-day period, during which police
response an officer makes a determination that something at or on the location
or address is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or is an obstruction to the free use of property, essentially
interfering unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
   22.   Businesses, the operation or maintenance of which adversely impacts
nearby residential or commercial uses and which:
      A.   Jeopardizes or endangers the public health or safety, or the health
of safety of persons residing or working on the premises or in the surrounding
area;
      B.   Has resulted in or facilitated any of the following activities:
disturbance of the peace, illegal drug activity, including sales or possession
thereof, public drunkenness, drinking in public, harassment of passersby,
gambling, prostitution, sale of stolen goods, public urination, theft,
assaults, batteries, acts of vandalism, excessive littering, illegal parking,
excessive noise (particularly between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.),
noxious smells or fumes, traffic violations, or police detention, citations or
arrests; or
      C.   Violates any other section of this article or any other City, State,
or federal regulation, ordinance, or statute.
   23.   Violations of the Code. Violations constitute nuisances in other
chapters of this Code.
50.03   NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance,
public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or
State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.04   NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine, on a case-by-case basis, whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section 50.05 or the
municipal infraction procedure referred to in Section
50.06. With regard to the nuisance enumerated in Section
50.02(22), property owners will be notified after the first determination by a
police officer that conditions exist posing a nuisance and that a second
determination of this kind will immediately constitute the failure to abate a
nuisance as outlined in Section
50.05(8), subjecting the property owner to applicable fines.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(h))
50.05   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE. † 5   
   Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(h))
   1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall
contain:
      A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
      B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
      C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
      D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
      E.   Assessment of City Costs. The City Administrator shall send a
statement of the total expense incurred to the property owner who has failed to
abide by the notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not
been paid within one month, the City Administrator shall certify the costs to
the County Treasurer and such costs shall then be collected with, and in the
same manner, as general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(h))
   2.   Method of Service. The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or
sent by certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(h))
   3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the time
stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance
exists, and it must be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before the
Council at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the Council
shall be conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered
abated within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
   4.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in Subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
Subsection 1 and 2 of this section, and the hearing as provided in Subsection 3
of this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(h))
   5.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or
condition neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the
required action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred.
The itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(h))
   6.   Collection of Costs. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total
expense incurred, by certified mail, to the property owner who has failed to
abide by the notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not
been paid within 30 days after the statement was sent, the Clerk may retain
attorneys or private collection agents for the purpose of collecting any
default in payment of any fine or penalty or installment of that fine or
penalty. Any fees or costs incurred by the City with respect to attorneys or
private collection agents retained under this subsection shall be charged to
the offender.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(h))
   7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to
abate the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the
assessment to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same
manner and with the same interest rates provided for assessments against
benefited property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
   8.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who
shall fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time
required and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code.
 
Notes
  †  EDITOR’S NOTE: Caution is urged in the use of this administrative abatement
  procedure, particularly where cost of abatement is more than minimal or where there
  is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does in fact exist. If compliance is not
5 secured following notice and hearings, we recommend you review the situation with
  your attorney before proceeding with abatement and assessment of costs. Your
  attorney may recommend proceedings in court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa
  rather than this procedure.
50.06   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section
50.05, the requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures
applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 3 of this Code.
50.07   TERMINATION OF RENTAL CERTIFICATE.
   Rental certificates shall automatically terminate and become null and void
upon issuance of a nuisance abatement notice that is related, in any way, to
property to which a Rental Certificate applies. The owner of any such rental
property shall be required to register the property again, including the
complete inspection process, as provided in
Chapter 156. Failure to obtain a valid Rental Certificate is a municipal
infraction.
50.08   REBUTTABLE PRESUMPTION.
   In any proceeding charging a violation of this chapter, proof that the
particular violation described constitutes a violation of this chapter,
together with proof that the particular named violator was the owner, agent,
tenant, or lessee of the residential dwelling, commercial establishment, or
real property upon which the violation occurred, shall be deemed to create a
rebuttable presumption that such violator was the party violating this chapter.
As to property abandoned in the public real property, it is presumed that the
abandoned property was placed there by or with the consent of the owner, agent,
tenant, or lessee of the abutting property.
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES
 
51.01 Definitions                              51.03 Exceptions
51.02 Damaged or Inoperable Vehicle a Nuisance 51.04 Abatement
 
51.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined.
   1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery
and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery or appliances; iron, steel
or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass, tinware,
plastic or old or discarded household goods or hardware. Neatly stacked
firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk. Junk
also includes the following:
      A.   Hazardous accumulations of rubbish or trash and rank growth of weeds
or other vegetation and plants tending to harbor vermin or rodents, or which
are otherwise conducive to hazard.
      B.   Abandoning or otherwise leaving unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked or fastened, which
are outside of enclosed buildings and may become accessible to children or
others, or allowing any such refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to
remain outside of enclosed buildings on premises in the person’s possession or
control, abandoned or unattended and so accessible to children or others.
   2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle legally placed in storage with the
County Treasurer or unlicensed and having any of the following characteristics:
      A.   Broken Glass. Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield,
window, headlight or taillight, or any other cracked or broken glass.
      B.   Broken, Loose, or Missing Part. Any vehicle with a broken, loose, or
missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel, or trunk lid.
      C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects. Any vehicle that has become
the habitat for rats, mice, snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
      D.   Flammable Fuel. Any vehicle that contains gasoline or any other
flammable fuel.
      E.   Inoperable. Any motor vehicle that lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or that cannot be moved under its own power or has not been used as
an operating vehicle for a period of 30 days or more.
      F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any other vehicle that, because of
its defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to
the public health and safety.
Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.
   3.   “Vehicle” means and includes any device in, upon, or by which a person
or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street,
excepting devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary
rails or tracks, and includes, without limitation, motor vehicle, bus, motor
home, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, wagon, or any
combination thereof.
51.02   DAMAGED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLE A NUISANCE.
   The City hereby declares that the parking or storage of damaged vehicles on
private property within the corporate limits of the City, where not authorized
by law, is a nuisance because the same is injurious to health, indecent, and
offensive to the senses, and is an obstruction to the free use of property, so
as essentially to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property.
51.03   EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to:
   1.   Storage in Buildings. Damaged or inoperable vehicles kept on private
property stored entirely within an enclosed building; or
   2.   On Premises of Licensed Vehicle Recycler. Damaged vehicles kept on
private property in a GC or LI District under the Zoning Code by a person
licensed as an authorized vehicle recycler under the provisions of Chapter 321H
of the Code of Iowa, when storage thereof is permitted under the Certificate of
Occupancy issued for the private property involved.
51.04   ABATEMENT.
   Whenever the City Administrator or other authorized municipal officer finds
that a violation of this chapter has occurred, such officer has the authority
to determine, on a case-by-case, basis whether to utilize the nuisance
abatement procedure described in Section 50.05 or the municipal infraction
procedure referred to in Section
50.06.
CHAPTER 52
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
52.01 Definitions                       52.07 Disposal of Totally Inoperable
                                        Vehicles
52.02 Authority to Take Possession of   52.08 Proceeds from Sales
Abandoned Vehicles
52.03 Notice by Mail                    52.09 Duties of Demolisher
52.04 Reclamation of Abandoned Vehicles 52.10 Bids for Towing and Storage
52.05 Fees for Impoundment              52.11 Abatement
52.06 Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
 
52.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89(1) and Sec. 321.90)
   1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
      A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
      B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more
than 24 hours.
      C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property
for more than 24 hours.
      D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days. However, a police
authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
      E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority
to create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
      F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
   2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
   3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
   4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
52.02   AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request
of any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic,
shall take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take
into custody any abandoned vehicle on private property. The police authority
may employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private
entity, equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving,
storing, or disposing of abandoned vehicles. A property owner or other person
in control of private property may employ a private entity that is a garage
keeper to dispose of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into
custody the abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative. If a
police authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the
police authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses
of the registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89(2))
52.03   NOTICE BY MAIL.
   1.   A police authority or private entity that takes into custody an
abandoned vehicle shall send notice by certified mail that the vehicle has been
taken into custody, no more than 20 days after taking custody of the vehicle.
Notice shall be sent to the last known address of record of the last known
registered owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle.
   2.   Notice shall be deemed given when mailed. The notice shall include all
of the following:
      A.   A description of the year, make, model, and vehicle identification
number of the vehicle.
      B.   The location of the facility where the vehicle is being held.
      C.   Information for the persons receiving the notice of their right to
reclaim the vehicle and personal property contained therein within 10 days
after the effective date of the notice. Persons may reclaim the vehicle or
personal property upon payment of all towing, preservation, and storage charges
resulting from placing the vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of
the notice required pursuant to this section.
      D.   A statement that failure of the owner, lienholders, or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders, and claimants
of all right, title, claim, and interest in the vehicle or personal property.
      E.   A statement that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property
is deemed consent for the police authority or private entity to sell the
vehicle at a public auction or dispose of the vehicle to a demolisher and to
dispose of the personal property by sale or destruction.
   3.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity
without a police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the
private entity may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90
(1) of the Code of Iowa and may proceed to sell or dispose of the vehicle.
   4.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority
or by a private entity hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that
any person claiming rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who
disputes the planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police
authority or private entity, or of the assessment of fees and charges provided
by this section, may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority
to contest those matters.
   5.   If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a hearing or exercise
their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the 10-day
reclaiming period, the owner, lienholders, or claimants shall no longer have
any right, title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the personal
property.
   6.   A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize any right,
title, claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders, or claimants after the
expiration of the 10-day reclaiming period.
   7.   If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the
identities and addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders,
notice by one publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area
where the vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of
notice under Subsection 2 of this section. The published notice may contain
multiple listings of abandoned vehicles but shall be published within the same
time requirements and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed
notice in Subsection 2 of this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89(3))
52.04   RECLAMATION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   Prior to driving an abandoned vehicle away from the premises, a person who
received (or who is reclaiming the vehicle on behalf of a person who received)
notice under Section 80.03 shall present to the police authority or private
entity, as applicable, the person’s valid driver’s license and proof of
financial liability coverage as provided in Section 321.20B of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89(3)(a))
52.05   FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay all fees, fines, and costs
associated with the impoundment, including those established by the storage
facility; whereupon the vehicle shall be released.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89(3)(a))
52.06   DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the
police authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or
not the motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways and shall
dispose of the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89(4))
52.07   DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found
any abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle
whose title certificate is faulty, lost, or destroyed, may dispose of such
motor vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without
notification procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
The police authority shall give the applicant a Certificate of Authority. The
applicant shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a Junking Certificate
and shall surrender the Certificate of Authority in lieu of the Certificate of
Title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90(2)(e))
52.08   PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
   Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the
expense of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification
required, in accordance with State law. Any balance shall be held for the owner
of the motor vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days and then shall be
deposited in the State Road Use Tax Fund. Where the sale of any vehicle fails
to realize the amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply
for reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89(4))
52.09   DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
   Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor
vehicle for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish
such motor vehicle. A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or
demolish a vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the Junking Certificate
issued for the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90(3)(a))
52.10   BIDS FOR TOWING AND STORAGE.
   At least once each year, the Council may take bids from privately owned
garages for schedules of fees for towing and storing impounded vehicles or
vehicles taken up because of illegal parking. Thereupon, the Council shall
designate such bidders as shall be geographically located to tow and store such
vehicles at a minimum cost in the event City facilities are not available for
towing or storing vehicles to be impounded. The Police Chief is hereby
authorized to direct the public garage designated by the Council as aforesaid
and located nearest to such vehicle to tow and store the same until disposed of
as provided in this chapter. Such garage is hereby authorized to retain such
vehicle until the fees for towing and storage on the basis of its bid shall be
paid.
52.11   ABATEMENT.
   Whenever the City Administrator or other authorized municipal officer finds
that a violation of this chapter has occurred, such officer has the authority
to determine, on a case-by-case basis, whether to utilize the nuisance
abatement procedure described in Section
50.05 or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in Section
50.06.
CHAPTER 53
LITTER CONTROL
 
53.01 Definitions                    53.06 Distributing Handbill at Private
                                     Premises
53.02 Throwing or Distributing       53.07 Owner to Maintain Premises Free of
Handbills in Public Places           Litter
53.03 Posting Notices Prohibited     53.08 Clearing of Litter from Private
                                     Property by City
53.04 Placing Handbills on Vehicles  53.09 Abatement
53.05 Depositing Handbills on Vacant
Premises
 
53.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined.
   1.   “Commercial handbill” means any printed or written matter, any sample
or device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper booklet, or any other
printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature
which:
      A.   Advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity, or thing;
or
      B.   Directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      C.   Directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit, but the terms of this clause
do not apply where an admission is charged or a collection is taken up for the
purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind when the same is held, given, or
takes place in connection with the dissemination of information which is not
restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good morals, public peace,
safety, and good order; provided, nothing in this clause shall be deemed to
authorize the holding, giving, or taking place of any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind without a license, where such
license is or may be required by any law of the State or under any ordinance of
the City; or
      D.   While containing reading matter other than advertising matter, is
predominately and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes, or for the private benefit and gain of
person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
   2.   “Litter” means any decomposable or non-decomposable solid or other
waste material.
   3.   “Noncommercial handbill” means any printed or written matter, any
sample, or device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine,
paper booklet, or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies
of any matter of literature not included in the preceding definitions of a
commercial handbill or newspaper.
   4.   “Person” means any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization of any kind.
   5.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
53.02   THROWING OR DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   1.   No person shall throw or deposit, or cause to be thrown or deposited,
any commercial or non-commercial handbill in or upon any sidewalk, street, or
other public place within the City.
   2.   If handbills become deposited upon any public place, the person
distributing or causing distribution of such handbills shall remove them the
same day.
53.03   POSTING NOTICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster, or other paper or device,
calculated to attract the attention of the public, to any lamppost, public
utility pole, shade tree upon any public property, or public structure or
building, except as may be authorized or required by law.
53.04   PLACING HANDBILLS ON VEHICLES.
   No person shall place any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon
any vehicle not owned or controlled by said person.
53.05   DEPOSITING HANDBILLS ON VACANT PREMISES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or non-commercial handbill
in or upon any private premises, whether owned by such person or not, which are
temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant. Nothing herein provided
shall prevent the owner or person in control of such property from properly and
securely storing such materials thereon.
53.06   DISTRIBUTING HANDBILL AT PRIVATE PREMISES.
   1.   No person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or non-
commercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except by
handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant, or
other person then present in or upon such private premises.
   2.   However, in cases of inhabited premises which are not posted, such
person, unless requested by anyone upon such premises not to do so, may place
or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited private premises, if
such handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent such handbill
from being blown or drifted about such premises or sidewalks, streets, or other
public places, and except that mailboxes may not be so used when so prohibited
by federal postal law or regulations.
   3.   The provisions of this section do not apply to the distribution of mail
by the United States or to newspapers, except that newspapers shall be placed
on private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other public place or
upon private property.
53.07   OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, this section does not
prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection.
53.08   CLEARING OF LITTER FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY BY CITY.
   1.   Notice to Remove. The City Administrator is hereby authorized and
empowered to notify the owner of any open or vacant private property within the
City or the agent of such owner to properly dispose of litter located on such
owner's property. Such notice shall be by certified mail addressed to the owner
at their last known address.
   2.   Action Upon Noncompliance. Upon the failure, neglect, or refusal of any
owner or agent so notified, to properly dispose of litter within a time set by
the City Administrator, after receipt of written notice provided for in
Subsection 1 of this section, or within this set time after the date of such
notice, in the event the notice is returned to the City because of inability to
make delivery thereof, provided the notice was properly addressed to the last
known address of such owner or agent, the City Administrator is hereby
authorized and empowered to pay for the disposing of such litter or to order
its disposal by the City.
   3.   Assessment and Allocation of Costs. When the City has affected the
removal of litter from private property or has paid for its removal, the actual
cost of removal of such litter shall be paid by the owner of the property and
shall be assessed against such property and collected by the City in any manner
provided by law.
53.09   ABATEMENT.
   Whenever the City Administrator or other authorized municipal officer finds
that a violation of this chapter has occurred, such officer has the authority
to determine, on a case-by-case basis, whether to utilize the nuisance
abatement procedure described in Section
50.05 or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in Section
50.06.
CHAPTER 54
NOISE CONTROL
 
54.01 Purpose                      54.06 Measurement of Noise and Sound
54.02 Scope of Regulations         54.07 Noise Permit for Sound Equipment
54.03 Definitions                  54.08 Other Laws and Ordinances
54.04 Noise Disturbance Prohibited 54.09 Penalty
54.05 Sounds Not Allowed           54.10 Abatement
 
54.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for the control of
noise pollution in the City thereby protecting the public’s health, safety, and
general welfare.
54.02   SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   This chapter applies to the control of all noise originating within the
limits of the City, except in the following cases:
   1.   A State or federal agency has adopted a different standard or rule than
prescribed within this chapter which preempts the regulation of noise from a
particular source so as to render this chapter inapplicable; or
   2.   The Council has determined that, by reason of public acceptance of the
activity producing a particular noise or noises, such noise is deemed
acceptable to the City.
   3.   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency.
   4.   The emission of sound in the legal discharge of weapons or in fireworks
displays licensed by the City.
   5.   Emergency work or repair work performed by or for governmental entities
or public service utilities.
54.03   DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a
different intention, the following terms have the following meanings.
Definitions of technical terms used in this chapter which are not herein
defined shall be obtained from publications of acoustical terminology issued by
the American National Standards Institute (ANSI):
   1.   “Application” means the application submitted to the City requesting a
Noise Permit.
   2.   “Decibel” means a logarithmic and dimensionless unit of measure often
used in describing the amplitude of sound and is denoted as dB.
   3.   “Emergency” means any occurrence or set of circumstances involving
actual or imminent physical or psychological trauma or property damage which
demands immediate action.
   4.   “Emergency work” means any work performed for the purpose of
alleviating or resolving an emergency.
   5.   “Motor vehicle” means any motor-powered vehicle designed to carry at
least one passenger or driver and of the type typically licensed for use on the
public highways. Motor vehicles include most motorcycles.
   6.   “Motorcycle” means any two or three-wheeled motor vehicle.
   7.   “Noise” means any sound which disturbs humans or which causes or tends
to cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
   8.   “Noise disturbance” means those sounds defined as “sounds not allowed”
in Section
54.05.
   9.   “Person” means, unless used in such a manner to denote only a human
being, any firm, partnership, domestic or foreign corporation, association,
joint stock company, trust, or other association or entity, City, County, or
State government and subdivisions or agencies thereof, and the federal
government and subdivisions and agencies thereof.
   10.   “Powered model vehicle” means any self-propelled, airborne,
waterborne, or landborne model plane, vessel, or vehicle which is not designed
to carry persons, including, but not limited to, any model airplane, boat, car,
or rocket.
   11.   “Public right-of-way” means the traveled portion of any street or
alley or similar place which is owned or controlled by the City or other
governmental entity.
   12.   “Real property boundary” means an imaginary line along the ground
surface, and its vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by
one person from that owned by another person, but not including intrabuilding
real property division.
   13.   “"Recreational vehicle” means any motor powered vehicle designed to
carry at least one passenger or driver and equipped for use in racing or other
recreational events or uses off of public right-of-way on public or private
property; except, however, for the purposes of this chapter, any such vehicle
which is licensed for use on the public highways is deemed a motor vehicle (or
motorcycle if two-or-three wheeled) and not a recreational vehicle. Examples of
recreational vehicles are snowmobiles, minibikes, stockcars, or motorboats.
   14.   “Residential property” means any property zoned R-1, R-2, R-3, or MH.
   15.   “Sound” means an oscillation in pressure, particle displacement,
particle velocity, or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal
forces that cause compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description
of sound may include any characteristic of such sound, including duration,
intensity, and frequency.
   16.   “Sound equipment” means any loudspeaker, amplifier, or other device
for producing, reproducing, or amplifying sound; except, however, sound
equipment does not include: sirens and other equipment used to alert persons to
the existence of an emergency; equipment used by law enforcement and other
public safety officials in the performance of their official duties; church
carillons, bells, or chimes; mobile radio or telephone signaling devices; or
automobile and truck radios or players of recorded music used and intended for
the use and enjoyment of the occupants of the vehicle, provided that the sound
emitted from the vehicle does not exceed 70 dB(A) or 80 dB(C) when measured at
a distance of 25 feet.
   17.   “Sound level meter” means an instrument, including a microphone,
amplifier, output meter, and weighting networks, that is sensitive to pressure
fluctuations. The output meter reads sound pressure level in decibels when
properly calibrated and the instrument is of Type 2 or better as specified in
American National Standards Institute, USA standard specification for general
purpose sound level meters (S1.4-1971), and preferred center frequencies for
acoustical measurements (S1.6-1960), or any subsequent nationally adopted
standard superseding such standards. A “weighted sound level” or “sound level”
means the sound pressure level in decibels as measured on a sound level meter
using the A weighting network. The level so read shall be designated as dB(A)
or dBA. C “weighted sound level” or “sound level” means the sound pressure
level in decibels as measured on a sound level meter using the C weighting
network. The level so read shall be designated as dB(C) or dBC.
   18.   “Weeknight” means the days of the week Sunday through Thursday
evening.
   19.   “Weekend night” means the days of the week Friday or Saturday evening.
54.04   NOISE DISTURBANCE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully make, continue, cause, or allow
any noise disturbance within the City.
54.05   SOUNDS NOT ALLOWED.
   1.   Noise Disturbance Described. The term “noise disturbance” means any of
the following sounds:
      A.   Alarm Testing. The sound emitted by the intentional sounding
outdoors of any privately owned fire alarm, burglar alarm, siren, whistle, or
similar stationary emergency signaling device for the essential testing of such
device, when conducted between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
      B.   Automobile Radios. The sound emitted by an automobile or truck
radio, tape deck, or compact disc player, or other such standard equipment used
and intended for the use and enjoyment of such vehicle’s occupants while such
vehicle is on the public right-of-way, provided that the sound emitted from the
vehicle does not exceed 70 dB(A) or 80 dB(C) when measured at a distance of 25
feet.
      C.   Chain Saws. The sound emitted by motor powered tree trimming
equipment operated between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      D.   Construction Noise. The sound made by privately owned and operated
tools or equipment in erection, demolition, excavation, drilling, or other such
construction work which is received between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. at the real property boundary of residential property.
      E.   Engine Brake Noise. The sound made by an engine brake device of a
diesel engine truck.
      F.   Engine Repairs and Testing. The sound made by the repairing,
rebuilding, modifying, or testing a motor vehicle or recreational vehicle which
is received between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. at the real property
boundary of residential property.
      G.   Injurious or Disturbing Sounds Generally. Any sound which endangers
or injures the health, safety, or welfare of a human being, disturbs a
reasonable human being of normal sensitivities, or causes, or tends to cause,
an adverse physiological or physical effect on human beings, or devalues or
injures property.
      H.   Lawn and Garden Equipment. The sound emitted by motor powered,
muffler equipped lawn and garden equipment operated between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      I.   Loading and Unloading. The sound made by outdoor loading, unloading,
opening, closing, or handling of boxes, crates, containers, building materials,
trash cans, containers, receptacles, or dumpsters which are received at the
real property boundary of residential property between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m.
      J.   Musical Instruments. The sound made by a drum, horn, reed, or string
instrument, or other musical instrument or device which is received between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. at the real property boundary of residential
property.
      K.   Noisy Exhaust System. The sound made by a motor vehicle or a
recreational vehicle whose exhaust system is defective or has been modified by
the installation of a muffler cutout or bypass.
      L.   Off-Road Motorcycle and Recreational Vehicle Noise. The sound made
on private or City-owned property other than a public right-of-way by a
motorcycle or recreational vehicle and received between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. at the real property boundary of residential property, provided;
however, the sound made by a motorcycle when traveling from private property to
a public right-of-way, or vice versa, in pursuance of normal ingress or egress
for purposeful transportation is not a “noise disturbance” unless made so by
some provisions of this section.
      M.   Powered Model Vehicles. The sound made by the operation of a powered
model vehicle which is received between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.at
the real property boundary of residential property.
      N.   Racing. The sound made by a motor vehicle or recreational vehicle on
private property or public right-of-way during any racing event or time trial,
whether organized or unorganized.
      O.   Screeching Tires. The sound made by the intentional screeching or
squealing of the tires of a motor vehicle.
      P.   Selling by “Hawking” or “Barking.” The sound of selling by shout or
outcry when made within the area of the City-zoned residential or commercial.
      Q.   Sound Equipment. The sound made by sound equipment (see definition
of sound equipment) operated upon the public right-of-way, in any building, or
upon any public or private premises shall be classified as a noise disturbance
if either:
         (1)   The sound is in excess of the maximum permitted levels shown in
the chart below when measured at the property boundary, or anywhere within the
property, of a receiving land use, or if in a park, approximately 200 feet from
the source of the sound or, when a complaint is received, at the nearest
boundary of the property where the complaining party was disturbed; or
         (2)   The sound is of a nature that cannot accurately be measured by a
sound level meter, and such sound is disturbing to a reasonable human being of
normal sensitivities.
      R.   Maximum Permitted Levels.
 
Zoning District           Time                      Receiving Land Use Maximum
                                                    dB Permitted
R-1, R-2, R-3, MH         Between 7:00 a.m. and 10: 65 dBA or 70 dBC
                          00 p.m.
Between 10:00 p.m. and 7: 55 dBA or 60 dBC
00 a.m.
UC, CC                    All times                 70 dBA or 75 dBC
Industrial                All times                 70 dBA or 80 dBC
 
   2.   Noise Permit. Sound in excess of the maximum permitted levels shall not
be a noise disturbance if such sound is emitted in accordance with a Noise
Permit issued by the City.
54.06   MEASUREMENT OF NOISE AND SOUND.
   The measurement of sound or noise shall be made with a sound level meter
meeting the standards prescribed by the American National Standards Institute.
The instruments shall be maintained in calibration and good working order. A
calibration check shall be made of the system at the time of any noise
measurement. Measurements recorded shall be taken so as to provide a proper
representation of the noise source. The microphone shall be positioned so as
not to create an unnatural enhancement or diminution of the measured noise. A
windscreen for the microphone shall be used when required. The measurement
shall be an A or C weighted, slow response sound level.
54.07   NOISE PERMIT FOR SOUND EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall use, operate, or cause to be used or operated any sound
equipment upon the public right-of-way, in any building, or upon any public or
private premises, if the sound is in excess of the maximum permitted levels
under Section
54.05(1)(Q) when measured at the property boundary, or anywhere within the
property, of a receiving land use, or if in a park, approximately 200 feet from
the source of the sound or, when a complaint is received, at the nearest
boundary of the property where the complaining party was disturbed, unless such
person has obtained a Noise Permit in accordance with this section, and the
actual use or operation of such sound equipment is not inconsistent with
statements made in the application, the conditions imposed in the Sound
Equipment Permit, or the limitations specified in Paragraph D of this section.
Any person who operates any sound equipment in violation of this section, and
without obtaining a Noise Permit, shall be subject to having the event stopped
or the sound equipment turned off or reduced to a legal level. Such remedy
shall be in addition to any other rights and remedies of the City. A Noise
Permit shall not be transferable, and it shall be conspicuously displayed on or
adjacent to the sound equipment.
   1.   Application for Permit. Applications for Noise Permits shall be made in
writing to the Clerk or Deputy City Clerk and shall contain the following
information:
      A.   Name, address, phone numbers, and signature of applicant.
      B.   The purpose for which the sound equipment will be used.
      C.   The location where the sound equipment will be used.
      D.   The number of days of use and proposed hours of operation of the
sound equipment.
      E.   A general description of the sound equipment, including the license
number of any motor vehicle upon which it is to be operated.
      F.   Any other information as may be required by the Clerk or Deputy City
Clerk.
   2.   Permit Fee.
      A.   A permit fee shall be paid by the applicant for the permit, with the
amount of the fee determined in accordance with an established Fee Schedule,
which Fee Schedule may be modified from time to time with the approval of the
Council.
      B.   No fee is required for a Noise Permit issued to City, State, or
federal government or any governmental subdivision or agency thereof.
   3.   Issuance of Permit.
      A.   Applications for Noise Permits shall be reviewed and then issued or
denied by either the Clerk or their designee. The applicant may appeal the
denial of a Noise Permit by filing a written request for appeal with the Clerk
or their designee, requesting that the denial of the application for Noise
Permit be reviewed by the Council at the Council’s next regularly scheduled
meeting. The City shall consider the following factors in connection with the
issuance of a Noise Permit:
         (1)   The location of the proposed event or source of the noise in
relation to surrounding residences or businesses;
         (2)   The time of day and day of the week for which the permit is
requested. The City shall not issue a Noise Permit that extends after 10:00
p.m. on a weeknight or after 11:00 p.m. on a weekend night or on the night of a
holiday, except in unusual circumstances, for good cause shown and approval by
the Council;
         (3)   The duration of the activity for which the Noise Permit is
requested;
         (4)   Whether the applicant has misrepresented any information in past
Noise Permits;
         (5)   Whether the applicant has failed to comply with conditions set
forth in prior Noise Permits that have been issued by the City;
         (6)   Whether the applicant has had prior violations of the noise
ordinance; and
         (7)   Such other considerations as are advisable to protect the
health, welfare, and quality of life for the residents and businesses of the
City.
      B.   No person or establishment may be granted a Noise Permit between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. more often than three times in any calendar
year, except in unusual circumstances, for good cause shown and approval by the
Council.
   4.   Limitations.
      A.   Any other language in this section to the contrary notwithstanding,
a Sound Equipment Permit shall not be issued if:
         (1)   The sound to be emitted by the sound equipment is other than
human speech or music.
         (2)   The sound equipment is to be operated for commercial advertising
purposes or for the purpose of attracting the attention of the public to any
building, structure, or vehicle for monetary profit or for the purpose of
advertising such sound equipment.
         (3)   The sound to be emitted by the sound equipment would be a noise
disturbance under Section
54.05 (other than Subsection Q of said section).
      B.   A Noise Permit issued in violation of this subsection is void and of
no force and effect.
   5.   Conditions.
      A.   When a permit is issued pursuant to this chapter, the sound levels
listed in the following table shall be the maximum levels permitted when
measured at the edge of the City street, the alley right-of-way, or the
property line, whichever reasonably appears to be nearest to the source of the
sound, or if in a park, approximately 200 feet from the source of the sound:
         (1)   Maximum Permitted Levels.
 
Zoning District   Time                        Receiving Land Use Maximum dB
                                              Permitted
R-1, R-2, R-3, MH Between 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 70 dBA or 80 dBC
                  p.m.
UC, CC            All times                   75 dBA or 85 dBC
LI                All times                   75 dBA or 85 dBC
 
      B.   When granting the permit, the Council may impose lower sound level
limits based upon the location and length of the proposed event for which the
permit is requested, and the Council or City staff may impose other reasonable
conditions and requirements to be met or fulfilled by the Noise Permit holder
preliminary to or at the time of the use or operation of the sound equipment.
Such conditions shall be those necessary or advisable to protect the health,
welfare, and quality of life of the residents of the City and may include,
without limitation, restrictions on the time of day the sound equipment can be
used or operated and restrictions on the length of time that the sound
equipment may be used or operated. The permit holder shall be responsible for
monitoring the level of sound to ensure that the conditions of the permit are
not violated.
   6.   Noncompliance by Permittee; City Authority. Should the person holding a
permit not attentively observe all limitations and restrictions found in this
chapter and in the Noise Permit, the City authorities shall be authorized to
stop such permitted event or to turn the sound equipment off or reduce it to
the level authorized by the Noise Permit.
54.08   OTHER LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   No provisions of this chapter should be construed to legalize or permit
sounds, devices, or activities made unlawful by other ordinances of the City or
State or federal statutes.
54.09   PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this chapter for any
particular provision or section, any person violating any provision of this
chapter or any rule or regulation adopted herein by reference shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the standard penalty as stated in Section 1.14.
54.10   ABATEMENT.
   Whenever the City Administrator or other authorized municipal officer finds
that a violation of this chapter has occurred, such officer has the authority
to determine, on a case-by-case basis, whether to utilize the nuisance
abatement procedure described in Section
50.05 or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in Section 50.06
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01 Definitions                      55.20 Display of License Tag
55.02 Pets; Types and Numbers of       55.21 Duplicate License Tag
Animals Permitted
55.03 Enclosures                       55.22 Duplicate License Tag Fee
55.04 Offenses                         55.23 Transfer of License or License Tag
                                       Prohibited
55.05 Seizure and Impounding           55.24 Expiration of License and License
                                       Tag
55.06 Notice to Owner of Licensed      55.25 Trapping
Animal
55.07 Disposition of Impounded Animals 55.26 Quarantine for a Minimum Period of
                                       14 Days
55.08 Animal Neglect                   55.27 Requirements When an Animal Has
                                       Bitten a Person
55.09 Livestock Neglect                55.28 Report of Person Whose Animal Has
                                       Been Bitten
55.10 Livestock                        55.29 Fees
55.11 Annual License Required          55.30 Pet Awards Prohibited
55.12 Exceptions to License            55.31 Indoor Pets
Requirements
55.13 Applications for Licenses        55.32 Feeding Deer
55.14 License Fees                     55.33 Designation of Urban Deer
                                       Management Zone
55.15 Delinquency                      55.34 Community Cats
55.16 Delinquent Fee List              55.35 Tampering With Rabies Vaccination
                                       Tag
55.17 Public Hearing; Delinquent Fee   55.36 Tampering with an Electronic
List                                   Handling Device
55.18 Vaccination of Dogs and Cats     55.37 False Representation of Service
                                       Animal
55.19 Issuance of License and License  55.38 Penalty
Tag
 
55.01   DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
   1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium,
including, but not limited to, print, radio, television, sign, display, label,
tag, or articulation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1(1))
   2.   “Animal” means a living creature, not human, and being either domestic
or wild.
   3.   “Animal Control Officer” means a person designated by the City to
perform such duties involving animal control and to have authority to enforce
this chapter and Chapter 56.
   4.   “Animal shelter” means a facility which is used to house or contain
dogs or cats, or both, and which is owned, operated, or maintained by an
incorporated humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention
of cruelty to animals, or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare,
protection, and humane treatment of such animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2(3))
   5.   “At large” means an animal off the premises of the owner or competent
person. The owner or competent person of an animal is strictly liable to
control such animal as required herein. The penalty for violation of this
chapter is imposed without regard to any wrongful intention of the violator.
The owner or competent person of an animal shall prevent said animal from
running at large within the corporate limits of the City. An animal properly
licensed as required by this chapter shall not be deemed at large if such
animal:
      A.   Is confined within a suitable enclosure under the control of a
competent person; or
      B.   Is confined within a motor vehicle under the control of a competent
person; or
      C.   Is under the control of a person competent to restrain and control
the animal, either by leash, cord, chain, or other similar restraint not more
than 10 feet in length, or properly restrained within a motor vehicle; or
      D.   Is properly housed in a veterinary hospital or licensed kennel, pet
shop, or City designated animal pound; or
      E.   Is a public safety canine performing official duties; or
      F.   Is in a designated off-leash area of a City dog park provided the
person in charge of the dog is at all times abiding by the rules and
regulations of the off-leash area.
   6.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1(2))
      A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
      B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
      C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
      D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
   7.   “Cat” means all members of the Felis Domestica species, male or female,
altered or unaltered.
   8.   “Commercial establishment” means an animal shelter, boarding kennel,
commercial breeder, commercial kennel, dealer, pet shop, pound, public auction,
or research facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1(5))
   9.   “Community cat” means a cat that meets the requirements of Section
55.34(1).
   10.   “Competent person” means a person of such maturity as to be able to
exercise control over a dog or cat.
   11.   “Dog” means and includes members of the canine species, male or
female, altered or unaltered.
   12.   “Fair” means any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1(3))
      A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
      C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
   13.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in
Section 99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1(4))
   14.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas, and emus; farm deer (as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa); or poultry.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1(4))
   15.   “Owner” means any person or persons, firm, association, or
corporation, owning, keeping, paying the license for, or harboring a dog, cat,
horse, or other animal; provided, however, that owner does not include persons
providing food, water, shelter, or veterinary care to a community cat.
   16.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1(5))
   17.   “Pound” means a facility for the prevention of cruelty to animals
operated by the State, a municipal corporation, or other political subdivision
of the State for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized stray, homeless,
abandoned, or unwanted dogs, cats, or other animals; or a facility operated for
such a purpose under a contract with any municipal corporation or incorporated
society.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2(20))
   18.   “Research facility” means any school or college of medicine,
veterinary medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, or osteopathic medicine, or hospital,
diagnostic or research laboratories, or other educational or scientific
establishment situated in the State concerned with the investigation of, or
instruction concerning the structure or function of living organisms, the
cause, prevention, control, or cure of diseases or abnormal conditions of human
beings or animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2(24))
   19.   “Veterinarian” means a veterinarian licensed pursuant to Chapter 169
of the Code of Iowa who practices veterinary medicine in the State.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1(17))
55.02   PETS; TYPES AND NUMBERS OF ANIMALS PERMITTED.
   1.   The following animals may be owned as pets under the following
conditions:
      A.   Dogs not to exceed three in number and cats not to exceed three in
number at or in a residential dwelling, which dogs and cats are owned and
maintained in compliance with the provisions of this chapter relating to such
animals.
      B.   Rabbits not to exceed three in number at or in a residential
dwelling, and which must be maintained in a hutch or other type of enclosure.
      C.   Domestic poultry and fowl; that is, poultry and fowl ordinarily
raised for production of eggs or meat, not to exceed 10 in number considered
together at or in a residential dwelling and maintained at all times in a pen
or coup.
      D.   Vietnamese Pot Bellied Pigs, Asian Pot Bellied Pigs, or pot bellied
pigs not to exceed two in number of the types considered together at or in a
residential dwelling.
      E.   The young produced by any pets permitted herein may be maintained at
or in a residential dwelling with the parent animals for a period of
approximately eight weeks, but in no case longer than 10 weeks.
   2.   Notwithstanding Subsection 1(C), the following are not allowed:
      A.   Roosters or male domestic poultry;
      B.   Geese or members of the Anser and Branta genera;
      C.   Guineafowl;
      D.   Peacocks or peafowl.
55.03   ENCLOSURES.
   Any enclosure, pen, coup, or hutch in which pets are maintained shall be
cleaned at least every other day or more often if deemed advisable or necessary
by a health officer or the Police Chief. Said enclosures shall be located at a
minimum of 25 feet from a neighboring residential dwelling. No animal may be
enclosed or fenced in the front yard of a residential dwelling.
55.04   OFFENSES.
   No owner of any dog, cat, or other animal (or any person having control or
responsibility thereof) shall:
   1.   Allow or permit such animal to run at large.
   2.   Allow or permit such animal to urinate or defecate on private property
without the express consent of the owner of such property.
   3.   Fail to pick up and dispose of any feces deposited by such animal on
private property without the express consent of the owner thereof.
   4.   Allow or permit such animal to urinate or defecate on public property,
including, but not limited to, public property located between curb lines of
public streets and adjacent property lines and public property located within
parks.
   5.   Fail to pick up and dispose of any feces deposited by such animal on
public property.
   6.   Allow or permit such animal to pass upon public or private property
thereby causing damages to or interference with such property.
   7.   Allow or permit a dog to cause annoyance or disturbance to any person
by frequent and habitual barking, howling, or yelping.
   8.   Allow or permit an animal to run after, chase, or attack any person or
vehicle or place any person in reasonable fear of attack or injury.
   9.   Keep, shelter, or harbor any unlicensed animal.
   10.   Keep, shelter, or harbor any animal without a license tag attached to
its collar or harness as required by this chapter.
   11.   Keep, shelter, or harbor any animal with an expired license tag
attached to its collar or harness.
   12.   Keep, shelter, or harbor any unvaccinated animal.
   13.   Keep, shelter, or harbor any animal without a vaccination tag attached
to its collar or harness as required by law.
   14.   Keep, shelter, or harbor any animal with an expired vaccination tag
attached to its collar or harness.
   15.   Allow or permit such animal to destroy or damage property other than
the property of the owner of such animal.
   16.   Abandon any animal within the corporate limits of the City; provided,
however, that a community cat may be released at the location where it was
captured.
   17.   The penalty for violation of this chapter is imposed without regard to
any wrongful intention of the violator, owner, or competent person.
55.05   SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDING.
   Any animal found in violation of the provisions of Section
55.04 of this chapter may be seized and impounded. It is the duty of the Police
Chief, duly appointed Animal Control Officer of the City, or designee, to cause
any animal in violation of this chapter to be seized and impounded.
55.06   NOTICE TO OWNER OF LICENSED ANIMAL.
   The owner of any animal licensed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter which has been seized and impounded shall be notified of such seizure
and impounding within three business days thereof by such person and in such
manner as the Council may direct by resolution.
55.07   DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   The owner of any animal licensed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter which has been seized and impounded may obtain the release of such
animal by the payment of the City Administrative Fee as outlined in the current
Fee Schedule. Once the release is issued, the owner of such animal will be
required to redeem the animal from the animal pound or shelter, which may
include payment of additional fees to the pound or shelter caring for the
animal. Any such animal not redeemed by the owner within seven days of the date
impounded may be disposed of in accordance with law. The owner of any
unlicensed or unvaccinated animal which has been seized and impounded may
obtain the release of such animal, upon proper identification of the owner and
the animal, by obtaining a license for such animal in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and by the payment of the administrative fee and any
animal pound or shelter costs.
55.08   ANIMAL NEGLECT.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of an animal and
confines that animal to fail to provide the animal with any of the following
conditions for the animal’s welfare:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
      A.   Access to food in an amount and quality reasonably sufficient to
satisfy the animal’s basic nutrition level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.
      B.   Access to a supply of potable water in an amount reasonably
sufficient to satisfy the animal’s basic hydration level to the extent that the
animal’s health or life is endangered. Access to snow or ice does not satisfy
this requirement.
      C.   Sanitary conditions free from excessive animal waste or the
overcrowding of animals to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered.
      D.   Ventilated shelter reasonably sufficient to provide adequate
protection from the elements and weather conditions suitable for the age,
species, and physical condition of the animal so as to maintain the animal in a
state of good health to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered. The shelter must protect the animal from wind, rain, snow, or sun
and have adequate bedding to provide reasonable protection against cold and
dampness. A shelter may include a residence, garage, barn, shed, or doghouse.
      E.   Grooming, to the extent it is reasonably necessary to prevent
adverse health effects or suffering.
      F.   Veterinary care deemed necessary by a reasonably prudent person to
relieve an animal’s distress from any of the following:
         (1)   A condition caused by failing to provide for the animal’s
welfare as described in this section.
         (2)   An injury or illness suffered by the animal causing the animal
to suffer prolonged pain and suffering.
   2.   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A person operating a commercial establishment under a valid
authorization issued or renewed under Section 162.2A of the Code of Iowa, or a
person acting under the direction or supervision of that person, if all of the
following apply:
         (1)   The animal, as described in Subsection 1, was maintained as part
of the commercial establishment’s operation.
         (2)   In providing conditions for the welfare of the animal, as
described in Subsection 1, the person complied with the standard of care
requirements provided in Section 162.10A(1) of the Code of Iowa, including any
applicable rules adopted by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship
applying to:
a.   State licensee or registrant operating pursuant to Sections 162.10A(2)(a)
or (2)(b) of the Code of Iowa; or
b.   A permittee operating pursuant to Section 162.10A(2)(c) of the Code of
Iowa.
      B.   A research facility if the research facility has been issued or
renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land
Stewardship pursuant to Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa and performs functions
within the scope of accepted practices and disciplines associated with the
research facility.
55.09   LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
   It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place
to fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices, or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance, or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means that causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
55.10   LIVESTOCK.
   It is unlawful for a person to keep livestock within the City except by
written consent of the Council or except in compliance with the City’s zoning
regulations.
55.11   ANNUAL LICENSE REQUIRED.
   The owners of all dogs and cats six months of age or older shall annually
obtain a license therefor as hereinafter provided. Every owner of a dog or cat
under the age of six months on January 1 of any year shall apply for an annual
license for each such dog or cat on or before the first day of the first month
after each such dog or cat reaches the age of six months.
55.12   EXCEPTIONS TO LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   The requirements for licensing dogs and cats shall not apply to such animals
if one or more of the following situations apply:
   1.   In transit through the City only.
   2.   First 30 days of residency by the owner.
   3.   Housed in a veterinary hospital.
   4.   Housed temporarily in an animal grooming shop.
   5.   Housed in a licensed kennel.
   6.   Housed in an accredited institution for research purposes only.
55.13   APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES.
   The owner of a dog or cat for which a license is required shall, on the
first day of January of each year, apply to the Police Department for a license
for each such dog or cat. Applications made on or after April 1 of that year
shall be delinquent. An application for an annual license for a dog or cat
which is under the age of six months on January 1 of any year shall be
delinquent if made on or after the first day of the sixth month after such dog
or cat reaches the age of six months. Applications for licenses shall be in
writing on forms provided by the Police Department, and shall state the breed,
sex, age, color, markings, and name, if any, of the dog or cat, the address at
which the owner regularly keeps, shelters, or harbors the dog or cat, and the
name and address of the owner, and be signed by said owner. Such application
shall also state the date of the most recent rabies vaccination, the type of
vaccine administered, and the date the dog or cat shall be re-vaccinated. Such
application shall be accompanied by a Certificate of Vaccination issued by a
licensed veterinarian showing that the dog or cat described in the application
has been vaccinated against rabies.
55.14   LICENSE FEES.
   An application for an annual license for a dog or cat shall be accompanied
by the required annual license fee. Information regarding license fees is
located in Section 55.29.
55.15   DELINQUENCY.
   All license fees for dogs and cats become delinquent on April 1 of the year
in which they are due and payable, and a penalty of double the original license
fee shall be added to each unpaid license on and after said date.
55.16   DELINQUENT FEE LIST.
   The Clerk may, in the Clerk’s discretion or at the request of the Council,
prepare and submit to the Council a delinquent fee list which shall show the
following:
   1.   The name and residence address of each person within the City who is
the owner of a dog or cat which is not licensed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter for the current year and the amount of fees,
including delinquency fees, due from such owner.
   2.   The name and residence address of each person within the City who
licensed a dog or cat in accordance with the provisions of this chapter in the
previous year which is not licensed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter for the current year and the amount of fees, including delinquency
fees, due from such owner.
   The foregoing list shall not include any owner who, upon the death, transfer
of ownership, or disappearance for more than 60 days of any dog or cat, within
10 days of such event, notifies the Clerk of such event and surrenders the
license and license tag, if available, issued to the owner.
55.17   PUBLIC HEARING; DELINQUENT FEE LIST.
   Upon submission of the delinquent fee list to the Council, the Council may,
by resolution, fix a date, time, and place for a public hearing thereon. The
Clerk shall mail a written notice of such public hearing to the owner of each
dog or cat which appears on such list by ordinary mail at least 10 days prior
to the date fixed for such public hearing. The notice shall state the date,
time, and place of such public hearing and shall advise the owner of each dog
or cat which appears on such list that they may appear at such hearing and show
cause why the delinquent fees shown thereon for each such dog or cat should not
be paid. After such public hearing, the Council shall enforce such fees by any
legal means permitted under this Code or release obligation for payment of fees
if sufficient cause is shown for nonpayment.
55.18   VACCINATION OF DOGS AND CATS.
   All dogs and cats over the age of six months shall be inoculated for the
prevention of rabies and the owner of said animal shall obtain and return a
certificate as evidence of said anti-rabies inoculation by a licensed
veterinarian. The certificate shall show that the vaccination is current at the
effective date of the dog or cat license.
55.19   ISSUANCE OF LICENSE AND LICENSE TAG.
   Upon receipt of an application for an annual license for a dog or cat in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and the payment of all fees
applicable thereto, the Clerk shall issue to the owner a dog or cat license and
a dog or cat license tag. The dog or cat license shall state the number of the
license, the name and residence address of the owner of the dog or cat, and a
description of the dog or cat. The dog or cat license tag shall state the
number of the license and the year for which it is issued.
55.20   DISPLAY OF LICENSE TAG.
   Upon issuance of the license tag, the owner of the dog or cat shall cause
the license tag to be securely fastened to a collar or harness which shall be
worn by the dog or cat for which the license tag is issued.
55.21   DUPLICATE LICENSE TAG.
   Upon proof by the owner of a dog or cat that a license tag issued to such
dog or cat in accordance with the provisions of this chapter has been lost or
destroyed, the Clerk shall issue a duplicate tag to the owner of such dog or
cat. Such duplicate license tag shall be securely fastened to the collar or
harness of such dog or cat in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
55.22   DUPLICATE LICENSE TAG FEE.
   See the Fee Schedule.
55.23   TRANSFER OF LICENSE OR LICENSE TAG PROHIBITED.
   No license or license tag issued in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter shall be transferred to any other person or dog or cat.
55.24   EXPIRATION OF LICENSE AND LICENSE TAG.
   All licenses and license tags issued in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter shall expire on January 1 of the year following the year for which
they were issued.
55.25   TRAPPING.
   No person shall place, set, or use any trap, snare, or similar device
designed or intended to take, kill, maim, wound, ensnare, trap, or capture any
animal, fowl, or wildlife on any public or private property within the City. In
any proceeding charging a violation of this section, a prima facie presumption
shall exist that the owner of said trap, snare, or other device was the person
placing or setting the same. This section shall not apply to the following:
   1.   Any trap or device designed for the primary use of capturing mice,
insects, rats, gophers, moles, or aquatic rodents which are trapped in water.
   2.   Any box trap or other trap which complies with State law, designed to
keep the animal alive and unharmed in the trap in compliance with Section
55.34.
   3.   Any trapping by a governmental unit to capture animals which are
creating a public nuisance or for the protection of public or private property.
55.26   QUARANTINE FOR A MINIMUM PERIOD OF 14 DAYS.
   1.   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief to order the owner of any
animal which has bitten a person or another animal, or of any animal suspected
of being infected with rabies, to confine such animal for a period of 14 days
at the animal shelter, a veterinary clinic, or a registered kennel.
   2.   Notwithstanding Subsection 1 of this section, the Animal Control
Officer may allow a dog or cat or any other animal to remain in quarantine for
that period on the property of the owner so long as the dog or cat of any other
animal is confined there and is out of contact with members of the public or
other animals during the quarantine period when the dog, cat, or any other
animal:
      A.   Has a current certificate of inoculation for rabies; and
      B.   Is properly licensed, in the case of dogs; and
      C.   Has properly displayed all required tags; and
      D.   Has not previously bitten a person; and
      E.   The owner has suitable and secure quarters in which to isolate the
animal.
   Home quarantine shall not be allowed where there is a reasonable belief that
the animal’s condition, or circumstances including consideration of the nature
or severity of the bite, require observation at the animal shelter, a
veterinary clinic, or a registered kennel, or where the animal does not remain
in quarantine in the manner prescribed by the Animal Control Officer for the
14-day period.
55.27   REQUIREMENTS WHEN AN ANIMAL HAS BITTEN A PERSON.
   The owner of an animal shall report at once to the Police Department the
fact that their animal has bitten or attacked a person or domestic animal, and
all persons having knowledge of such facts shall report the same to the Police
Department. Any person claiming to have been bitten by an animal must go in
person to the Police Department or to a physician to show proof of a bite if
deemed necessary by the Director of Public Health. Children claiming to have
been bitten by an animal must be accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
55.28   REPORT OF PERSON WHOSE ANIMAL HAS BEEN BITTEN.
   Every person owning or having possession, custody, or control of an animal
which is known to have been bitten by an animal infected with rabies shall
immediately report this fact to the Police Department and shall have the
exposed animal placed in isolation and quarantine as provided by this Code.
55.29   FEES.
   Fees for animal control activities are adopted by the Council periodically
by resolution. Information about these fees is available from the Clerk’s
office or the Police Department.
55.30   PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
   As used in this section “pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally
maintained in a small tank or cage in or near a residence, including, but not
limited to, a rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch,
tropical fish, goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717E)
   1.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
      A.   A prize for participating in a game.
      B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
      C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
      D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract that includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care, or disposition of the pet.
   2.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
      B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting, or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.31   INDOOR PETS.
   Gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, mice, birds, non-venomous and non-
constrictive snakes, and other similar animals normally maintained as pets in
an enclosure inside a residential dwelling are not subject to the provisions of
this chapter unless provided otherwise by this Code.
55.32   FEEDING DEER.
   No person shall place or allow any feeding device or any fruit, grain,
mineral, plant, salt, vegetable, or other material to be placed outdoors on any
public or private property for the purpose of attracting or feeding deer.
Pursuant to this chapter, a rebuttable presumption is created that the
placement of fruit, grain, mineral, plant, salt, vegetable, or other material
(“feed materials”) in a drop feeder, deer feeder kit, automatic feeder, any
natural object (hollowed tree stump, etc.) or similar device (“feeding device”)
regardless of the height of the fruit, grain, mineral, plant, salt, vegetable,
or other material is for the purpose of feeding deer.
   1.   Each property owner or occupant of the property shall have the duty to
remove any feed materials placed on the owner’s property in violation of this
chapter. Failure to remove feed materials within 24 hours after notice from the
City shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   2.   Each property owner or occupant of the property shall have the duty to
remove any feeding device placed on the owner’s property to which deer are
attracted or from which deer actually feed. Alternatively, a property owner or
occupant may modify a feeding device or make other changes to the property that
prevent deer from having access to or feeding from the feeding device. Failure
to remove such a feeding device or to make such modifications within 24 hours
after notice from the City shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   3.   Exceptions.
      A.   Naturally Growing Materials. This chapter does not apply to
naturally growing materials, including, but not limited to, fruit, grain, nuts,
seeds, and vegetables.
      B.   Planted Materials. This chapter does not apply to planted materials
growing in gardens, as standing crops, or in a wildlife food plot.
      C.   Stored Crops. This chapter does not apply to stored crops, provided
that the stored crop is not intentionally made available to deer.
      D.   Incidental Spills. This chapter does not apply to spills of seed
materials intended for planting or to crop materials that have been harvested
if the spills are incidental to normal agricultural operations and such
materials are not intentionally made available to deer.
   4.   Penalties. Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
subject to a civil penalty for a municipal infraction as set forth in
Chapter 3. Each day a municipal infraction occurs or is permitted to exist
constitutes a separate offense.
55.33   DESIGNATION OF URBAN DEER MANAGEMENT ZONE.
   The City has determined an area within the City limits in which there is an
overabundance of deer, and this area has been designated by the Iowa Department
of Natural Resources (DNR) to be recommended as an Urban Deer Management Zone
(DMZ) as provided by DNR regulations. The Council may annually approve the DMZ.
   1.   Definitions.
      A.   “Antlerless” means a deer with no visible forked antler.
      B.   “Arrow” means ass defined and limited by the State Department of
Natural Resources (herein DNR).
      C.   “Bow” means as defined and limited by the DNR.
      D.   “Elevated stand” means a manufactured stand (tree stand, ladder
stand, tripod, quadpod, or tower) with a safety harness and of sufficient
height to place the hunter’s feet at least six vertical feet above the highest
ground elevation within 25 yards of the stand location, to ensure a downward
thrust of an arrow when released by the bow.
      E.   “Incentive license” means a document issued by the DNR to allow a
bow hunter to harvest an antlered deer as a designated buck incentive program
award recipient based on the previous year’s antlerless deer program in the
City.
      F.   “Offal” means entrails, which include most internal organs other
than muscle or bones.
      G.   “Urban Deer Hunt Waiver form” means a document issued by and filed
with the City to affirm that the hunter has received written authorization to
hunt on private property from the owner or manager thereof.
      H.   “Urban Antlerless Deer License” means a document issued by the DNR
in addition to the small game hunting license to allow a bow hunter to harvest
an antlerless deer under the City’s special bow hunting program.
      I.   “Usable portion” means any part of a deer that is customarily
processed for human consumption.
      J.   “Viscera” means the internal organs within the chest.
   2.   Hunting Prohibited. No person shall engage in any hunting activity
within the City limits using a rifle, shotgun, bow and arrow, or any other
means, either on public or private property, except licensed bow hunters may
hunt deer in the designated urban deer management zone as specifically set
forth in Section 55.33(3).
   3.   Special Bow Hunt.
      A.   A special bow hunt is hereby established and shall be administered
by the City in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The dates and
boundaries for the special bow hunt shall be set annually by Council resolution
and may be more restrictive than the dates and boundaries designated by the
DNR.
      B.   A Hunt Administrator will be designated by the City Administrator,
and the Hunt Administrator will participate in the County Deer Task Force to
facilitate continuity in the City program and other metro communities.
      C.   Hunters wishing to participate in the special bow hunt shall first
obtain an Urban Antlerless Deer License or Incentive License after completing
the following and providing proof thereof:
         (1)   An annual archery proficiency test; and,
         (2)   A bow hunter safety education course conducted by the DNR or
approved equivalent.
      D.   Each hunter participating in the program must apply for and receive
a Windsor Heights DMZ Hunting Permit (“permit”) from the City. Permits are
valid for one hunting season. In order to receive the permit, a hunter must
present a valid State Special Urban Deer License.
      E.   The City hereby reserves the right to approve the content and
operation of the test or safety course and to reject any that is not compliant
with DNR requirements or recommendations or otherwise deemed acceptable to the
Police Department.
      F.   All hunters must check in with the Police Department, via phone or
by calling dispatch after hours prior to conducting any hunt, and they must
check out following the hunt.
      G.   Hunting shall be prohibited within the following protection zones,
and no shot shall be directed into or across any protection zone:
         (1)   Within 200 feet of any home or building not owned by the hunter,
unless the owner thereof waives the prohibition via the Windsor Heights Urban
Deer Hunt Waiver Form filed with the City; and,
         (2)   Within 100 feet of a recreation trail or street.
      H.   Shots shall only be taken from an elevated stand; provided that a
hunter with a DNR-qualifying disability may request permission to use an
alternative; shall be restricted to a distance of not more than 75 feet; and
shall clearly have a downward angle intended to minimize travel of an arrow
beyond the 75 feet maximum shot distance. A diligent attempt shall be made to
retrieve every arrow.
      I.   Elevated stands shall be non-permanent, and no screw-in steps shall
be allowed.
      J.   Legal weaponry for all hunting allowed by this chapter shall be
restricted to only bows and arrows, except that a hunter with a qualifying
disability, as defined by DNR regulations, may be allowed to use a crossbow and
bolts as defined and limited by the DNR.
      K.   Bows and arrows shall be cased while traveling to and from every
hunting site.
      L.   Hunters shall comply with all requirements established by the DNR
and by this Code, including, but not limited to, this chapter.
      M.   Hunters shall complete and file any Urban Deer Hunt Waiver forms
prior to hunting.
      N.   Hunting shall be prohibited on all City-owned property unless
expressly approved by the Council after review and recommendation by the City
Administrator or designee.
      O.   The minimum age for participation in the special bow hunt shall be
18 years old on the day of the hunt.
      P.   Each hunter shall carry all of the following on their person at all
times while hunting:
         (1)   A DNR license for the special bow hunt to hunt within the
boundaries designated by the City; and,
         (2)   The approved City of Windsor Heights Urban Deer Management Zone
Bow Hunting Permit; and,
         (3)   A permission form for the current year; and,
         (4)   A map verifying the property being hunted is located within the
hunt area as designated by the Council.
      Q.   A hunter shall not leave a usable portion of the deer in the field.
In the case of private property, viscera and other offal shall be disposed of
in a manner that is acceptable to the property owner and in a location that is
not visible from adjoining public or private property.
      R.   No hunter shall drive or operate any vehicle on any portion of the
City’s trail system in conjunction with any hunt or the recovery or retrieval
of any deer harvested.
      S.   A hunter shall not dispose any animal part on any public property,
including roadside ditches and disposal containers located along any trail or
public property.
      T.   Hunters shall take all deer meat to be processed or given to
charity.
      U.   Hunters shall report the number of deer harvested to the Police
Department following each hunt. The Police Department will log the harvest for
verification purposes.
      V.   If a mortally wounded deer travels off the property being hunted
onto other property, the hunter shall attempt to notify the other property
owner, or in the case of City property, the Police Department, before entering
the other property to recover the mortally wounded deer. The hunter shall also
notify the Police Department should they be unable to locate a wounded deer.
      W.   Hunters are strongly encouraged to utilize a safety harness
conforming to current Treestand Manufacturers Association (TMA) or American
Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) standards, in the manner and method
proscribed by the manufacturer, at all times while occupying an elevated stand.
      X.   Any confrontations between hunters and other members of the public
shall be immediately reported to the Police Department.
55.34   COMMUNITY CATS.
   1.   Requirements. Cats shall be allowed as free roaming community cats if
all the following are met.
      A.   No person owns the cat.
      B.   Cat has been spayed or neutered, vaccinated, ear tipped,
microchipped, and determined sufficiently healthy to be a free roaming cat by a
veterinarian.
   2.   A property owner or such property owner’s designee may utilize any box
trap or other trap which complies with State law, designed to keep the animal
alive and unharmed in the trap, if all the following are met.
      A.   The trap has been set on property owner’s property with the explicit
intent of trapping a cat and meeting the requirements of Section
55.25.
      B.   The property owner or their designee has set the trap after calling
a veterinarian subject to an existing agreement with the City and scheduled an
appointment with the veterinarian to neuter or spay, treat or otherwise
evaluate the trapped cat.
      C.   The property owner or their designee checks the trap every 12 hours
and releases any unintentionally trapped animals unharmed at the trap location.
      D.   The property owner or their designee promptly transports the trapped
cat to a veterinarian subject to an existing agreement with the City.
      E.   The property owner pays any pre-determined fees to the veterinarian
under the applicable City-veterinarian agreement.
      F.   The property owner or their designee promptly picks up and returns
the cat to the trap location after the cat receives veterinary treatment,
subject to the veterinarian determining returning the cat is sufficiently
healthy and appropriate to return the cat.
55.35   TAMPERING WITH A RABIES VACCINATION TAG.
   It is unlawful to tamper with a rabies vaccination tag.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.45)
   1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with a rabies vaccination tag
if all of the following apply:
      A.   The person knowingly removes, damages, or destroys a rabies
vaccination tag as described in Section 351.35 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   The rabies vaccination tag is attached to a collar worn by a dog,
including as provided in Sections 351.25 and 351.26 of the Code of Iowa.
   2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
      A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized
to take action by the owner.
      B.   A peace officer.
      C.   A veterinarian.
      D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.36   TAMPERING WITH AN ELECTRONIC HANDLING DEVICE.
   It is unlawful to tamper with an electronic handling device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.46)
   1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with an electronic handling
device if all of the following apply:
      A.   The person knowingly removes, disables, or destroys an electronic
device designed and used to maintain custody or control of the dog or modify
the dog’s behavior.
      B.   The electronic device is attached to or worn by the dog or attached
to an item worn by the dog, including (but not limited to) a collar, harness,
or vest.
   2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
      A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized
to take action by the owner.
      B.   A peace officer.
      C.   A veterinarian.
      D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.37   FALSE REPRESENTATION OF SERVICE ANIMAL.
   A person commits the offense of intentional misrepresentation of an animal
as a service animal or a service-animal-in-training if, for the purpose of
obtaining any of the rights or privileges set forth in State or federal law,
the person intentionally misrepresents an animal in one’s possession as one’s
service animal or service-animal-in-training or a person with a disability’s
service animal or service-animal-in-training whom the person is assisting by
controlling.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 216C.11(3)(B))
55.38   PENALTY.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code for violation of any
particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing to perform a duty
required by this Code or otherwise violating any provision of this Code or any
rule or regulation adopted herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a simple misdemeanor subject to a fine as set by the Fee Schedule
adopted by resolution. If a court appearance is requested, the person shall,
upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least $105.00 but not to exceed
$855.00.
   1.   Violations of this chapter are simple misdemeanors and may also be
punishable as municipal infractions. Police officers, animal control officers,
and the Police Chief designees shall have the authority to issue citations for
violations of this chapter and shall have the discretion to enforce this
chapter as either a simple misdemeanor or municipal infraction. Multiple
violations of this chapter may be considered by the City for purposes of
approving licenses or for any other requirements that are subject to approval
by the City.
   2.   Failure of a hunter to comply with Section
55.33 or other City or State regulation may subject the hunter to revocation of
their permit. The Police Chief or designee shall report all incidences of
noncompliance to the County Deer Task Force.
CHAPTER 56
DANGEROUS DOGS
 
56.01 Definitions                      56.05 Potentially Dangerous Dog or
                                       Dangerous Dog Declaration Requirements
56.02 Determination of a Potentially   56.06 Registration or Licensing
Dangerous Dog                          Requirements
56.03 Determination of a Dangerous Dog 56.07 Responsibility of Owners
56.04 Exceptions
 
56.01   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined.
   1.   “Dangerous dog” means any dog that:
      A.   Without provocation, causes a serious injury to a person or domestic
animal; or
      B.   Has been designated as a potentially dangerous dog and engages in
behavior that poses a threat to public safety as described in Subsection 9 of
this section or serious injury as defined in Subsection 10 of this section.
   2.   “Euthanized” means the same meaning as defined under Section 162.2(13)
of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   “Impound” means to take a potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog
into custody by the Animal Control Authority or the organization authorized to
enforce this chapter.
   4.   “Owner” means any person possessing, harboring, keeping, having an
interest in, or having control or custody of a dog.
   5.   “Pet safety course” means a course, preapproved by the Animal Control
Officer or the organization authorized to enforce this chapter, consisting of,
but not limited to, instruction in safe management of dogs.
   6.   “Potentially dangerous dog” means a dog that may reasonably be assumed
to pose a threat to public safety as demonstrated by any of the following
behaviors:
      A.   Without provocation, causes an injury to a person or domestic animal
on public or private property that is less severe than a serious injury;
      B.   Without provocation, chases or approaches a person, a domestic
animal or a wheeled conveyance upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or
private property, in an apparent attitude of attack; or has a known propensity,
tendency, or disposition to attack, causing injury or otherwise threatening the
safety of humans or domestic animals;
      C.   Without provocation, acts in a highly aggressive manner within a
fenced yard or enclosure and appears, to a reasonable adult, able to jump over
or escape;
      D.   Acts in a highly aggressive manner within a fenced yard or enclosure
and appears, to a reasonable person, able to jump over or escape.
   7.   “Proper enclosure” of potentially dangerous and dangerous dogs
requires:
      A.   Potentially dangerous and dangerous dogs shall be securely confined
within an occupied house or residence or in a securely enclosed and locked pen
or kennel, except when leashed as provided in this section or caged for
transportation. Also, when a dangerous dog is not securely confined or caged
for transportation, a muzzle shall be placed on the dog.
      B.   A pen or kennel must have secure sides and a secure top attached to
the sides or, in lieu of a top, walls at least six feet in height and at least
six feet taller than any internal structure. A pen or kennel must have a secure
bottom, floor, or foundation attached to the sides of the pen or kennel, or the
sides of the pen or kennel must be embedded in the ground no less than two feet
so as to prevent digging under the sides of the pen or kennel by the confined
potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog.
      C.   All pens, kennels, or structures erected to house a potentially
dangerous dog or dangerous dog must comply with all zoning and building
regulations in their jurisdictions. All such structures must be adequately
lighted and ventilated and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
      D.   All pens or kennels designed, constructed, or used to confine
potentially dangerous and dangerous dogs must be locked with a key or
combination lock when such animals are within the structure.
      E.   No potentially dangerous or dangerous dog may be kept on a porch,
patio, or in any part of a house or structure that would allow the potentially
dangerous or dangerous dog to exit such building on its own volition.
      F.   No potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog may be tied or leashed
to inanimate objects such as trees, posts, buildings, or any other object or
structure.
   8.   “Proper leashing” of potentially dangerous dogs and dangerous dogs
requires that potentially dangerous dogs and dangerous dogs shall not be
permitted to go outside a proper enclosure as defined in Subsection 7 of this
section unless secured on a leash no longer than six feet in length that is
under the actual physical control of a person 18 years of age or older who has
the physical ability to restrain the dog. Also, when a dangerous dog is not
securely confined or caged for transportation, a muzzle shall be placed on the
dog.
   9.   “Provocation” means that the threat, injury, or damage caused by the
dog was sustained by a person who, at the time, was willfully trespassing upon
the premises occupied by the owner of the dog, or the person was tormenting,
abusing, or assaulting the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit a
crime.
   10.   “Serious injury” means any physical injury incurred by a dog that
results in a major bone fracture, muscle tears, disfiguring lacerations, or
requires multiple sutures or corrective surgery or cosmetic surgery.
56.02   DETERMINATION OF A POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
   1.   After an investigation, the Animal Control Officer or the organization
authorized to enforce this chapter, is authorized to make a declaration that a
dog is potentially dangerous based on the factors listed in Section
56.01(6) and will notify the owner of the dog in writing by certified mail, or
personal service, or posting in a conspicuous place at the last known residence
of the owner of the dog.
   2.   Upon notice, the owner of the dog declared potentially dangerous may,
within three business days, file a written appeal in this jurisdiction seeking
review of the declaration. However, during an appeal, the owner of the dog
shall properly confine or properly leash the dog and provide proof of liability
insurance in accordance with this chapter.
   3.   If a written appeal is filed, the owner of the dog declared dangerous
will be given no less than three days’ (business or otherwise) written notice
of the date, time, and location of the hearing.
   4.   Following notice to the owner of the dog, if the Animal Control Officer
or the organization authorized to enforce this chapter has reasonable cause to
believe that a dog is a potentially dangerous dog which may pose a threat to
public safety, or if the owner has not provided proof of liability insurance,
the dog will be impounded, pending disposition of an appeal or until the dog
owner has fulfilled the requirements of a potentially dangerous dog
declaration. However, if after 30 days from the date of notice, the owner of
the dog has not completed the requirements, the dog shall be impounded and
destroyed in a humane manner.
   5.   Any dog that is under impoundment or quarantine at the animal shelter
and is declared a potentially dangerous dog will not be returned to the owner
pending disposition of an appeal or until the owner completes all of the
requirements of Subsection
56.06(1), except Paragraph H of said subsection, which must be completed within
30 days from the date of notice.
   6.   The owner of the dog shall be liable for the costs of impounding and
keeping of the dog.
56.03   DETERMINATION OF A DANGEROUS DOG.
   1.   After an investigation, the Animal Control Officer or the organization
authorized to enforce this chapter is authorized to make a declaration that a
dog is dangerous based on the factors listed in Subsection
56.01(1) and will notify the owner of the dog in writing by certified mail, or
personal service, or posting in a conspicuous place at the last known residence
of the owner of the dog.
   2.   Upon notice, the owner of the dog declared dangerous may, within three
business days, file a written appeal seeking review of the determination.
However, during an appeal, the owner of the dog shall properly confine or
properly leash the dog and show proof of liability insurance in accordance with
this chapter.
   3.   If a written appeal is filed, the owner of the dog declared dangerous
will be given no less than three days’ (business or otherwise) written notice
of the date, time, and location of the hearing.
   4.   Following notice to the owner of the dog, if the Animal Control Officer
or the organization authorized to enforce this chapter has reasonable cause to
believe the dog to be a dangerous dog which may pose a threat to public safety,
or if the owner has not provided proof of liability insurance, the dog will be
impounded, pending disposition of an appeal or until the dog owner has
fulfilled the requirements of a dangerous dog declaration. However, if after 30
days after the date of notice, the owner of the dog has not completed the
requirements, the dog shall be impounded and destroyed in a humane manner.
   5.   Any dog that is under impoundment or quarantine at the animal shelter
and is declared a dangerous dog will not be returned to the owner pending
disposition of an appeal or until the owner completes all of the requirements
of Subsection
56.06(1), except Paragraph H of said subsection, which must be completed within
30 days from the date of notice, and Subsection
56.06(2).
   6.   The owner of the dog shall be liable for the costs of impounding and
keeping the dog if the dog is determined to be a dangerous dog.
56.04   EXCEPTIONS.
   No dog shall be declared a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog if:
   1.   The dog was used by a law enforcement or military official for
legitimate law enforcement or military purposes.
   2.   The dog was protecting or defending a human, offspring, or another
animal, within the immediate vicinity of the dog, from an attack or assault.
56.05   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG OR DANGEROUS DOG DECLARATION REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   If the Animal Control Officer or the organization authorized to enforce
this chapter declares that a dog is a potentially dangerous dog, the owner of
the dog shall comply with the provisions of Sections
56.01(6) and (7) and Section
56.06(1).
   2.   If the Animal Control Officer or the organization authorized to enforce
this chapter declares that a dog is a dangerous dog, the owner of the dog shall
comply with the provisions of Sections
56.01(6) and (7) and Section
56.06.
   3.   Following notice to the owner of the dog, if the Animal Control Officer
or the organization authorized to enforce this chapter has reasonable cause to
believe the dog to be a dangerous dog and may pose a threat to public safety,
or if the owner has not provided proof of liability insurance, the dog will be
impounded, pending disposition of an appeal or until the dog owner has
fulfilled the requirements of a dangerous dog declaration. However, if after 30
days from the date of notice, the owner of the dog has not completed the
requirements, the dog shall be euthanized.
   4.   If, after the notice of declaration, a potentially dangerous dog or a
dangerous dog is found improperly confined or leashed more than once, the dog
will be impounded and euthanized.
   5.   If, after the notice of declaration, the liability insurance on a
potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog is found to be invalid more than
twice, the dog will be impounded and euthanized.
   6.   The owner of the dog shall be liable for the costs of impounding and
keeping the potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog whether or not the dog
is reclaimed.
56.06   REGISTRATION OR LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   The Animal Control Officer or the organization authorized to enforce
this chapter will issue a Certificate of Registration or license to the owner
of a potentially dangerous dog, if the owner establishes to the satisfaction of
the Animal Control Officer or other authority that:
      A.   The owner of the potentially dangerous dog is 18 years of age or
older and has the physical ability to control the dog.
      B.   The owner of the potentially dangerous dog presents a Certificate of
Insurance issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in this State,
providing personal liability insurance coverage as in a homeowner’s policy,
with a minimum liability amount of $1,000,000.00 for the injury or death of any
person, for damage to property of others and for acts of negligence by the
owner or their agents, in the keeping or owning of such potentially dangerous
dog. The certificate shall require notice to the City, in conformity with
general City standards for Certificates of Insurance, if the underlying policy
of insurance is cancelled for any reason. In lieu of such a certificate, a copy
of a current homeowner’s policy designating these requirements shall be
sufficient proof of insurance for purposes of this subsection. If a Certificate
of Insurance or policy is not immediately available, a binder indicating the
coverage may be accepted for up to 30 days subsequent to the determination that
a dog is potentially dangerous; however, if, after 30 days, a Certificate of
Insurance or a policy has not been submitted or the insurance coverage is
cancelled, the dog shall be deemed unregistered or unlicensed and subject to
immediate impoundment.
      C.   The potentially dangerous dog has a current rabies vaccination at
the owner’s expense.
      D.   The owner has a proper enclosure to prevent the entry of any person
or animal and the escape of said potentially dangerous dog as described in
Section
56.01(7).
      E.   The potentially dangerous dog has been spayed or neutered at the
owner’s expense.
      F.   The potentially dangerous dog has been implanted with a microchip
containing owner identification information at the owner’s expense. The
microchip information must be registered with the Animal Control Officer or the
organization authorized to enforce this chapter.
      G.   The potentially dangerous dog has been photographed for
identification purposes.
      H.   The potentially dangerous dog owner shall satisfactorily complete a
pet safety course preapproved by the Animal Control Officer at the dog owner’s
expense.
   2.   The Animal Control Officer or the organization authorized to enforce
this chapter will issue a Certificate of Registration or license to the owner
of a dangerous dog if the owner, in addition to satisfying the requirements for
registration or licensing of a potentially dangerous dog pursuant to Subsection
1 of this section, establishes to the satisfaction of the Animal Control
authority that:
      A.   The owner will maintain the dangerous dog exclusively on the owner’s
property except for medical treatment or examination.
      B.   The owner of the dangerous dog has posted on the premises a clearly
visible written warning sign that there is a dangerous dog on the property with
a conspicuous warning symbol that informs children of the presence of a
dangerous dog. The sign shall be very visible from the public roadway or 50
feet, whichever is less.
   3.   If any dog previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog has
not exhibited any of the behaviors specified in Section
56.01(6) within 12 months since the date of the potentially dangerous dog
determination, then that dog is eligible for a review of the determination with
the potential for lifting the requirements of this section; provided, however,
that same dog may again be declared a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog if
it again exhibits any of the specified behaviors. Such a review shall be
completed by a review committee appointed by the Council consisting of a
minimum of three people including a member of the public, a dog professional,
and an Animal Control Director or their designee.
56.07   RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS.
   It is unlawful to:
   1.   Keep a dog determined to be dangerous or potentially dangerous without
a valid Certificate of Registration issued under Section
56.06.
   2.   Permit a potentially dangerous dog to be outside a proper enclosure
unless the potentially dangerous dog is properly leashed as defined in Section
56.01.
   3.   Fail to maintain a dangerous dog exclusively on the owner’s property as
required, except for medical treatment or examination, or permit a dangerous
dog to be outside of proper confinement without being properly leashed and
muzzled or caged for transportation. When removed from the owner’s property for
medical treatment or examination, the dangerous dog shall be caged or under the
control of a responsible person as defined in Section
56.01, muzzled and restrained with a substantial leash not exceeding six feet
in length. The muzzle shall be made in a manner that will not cause injury to
the dog or obscure its vision or interfere with its respiration but shall
prevent it from biting any human being or animal.
   4.   Permit a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog to be tied or leashed
to inanimate objects such as trees, posts, buildings, or any other object or
structure.
   5.   Fail to notify law enforcement or the Animal Control Officer
immediately in person or by telephone upon escape if a dangerous or potentially
dangerous dog is on the loose, is unconfined, has attacked another domestic
animal, or has attacked a human being.
   6.   Fail to notify, within three business days, the Animal Control Officer
or the organization authorized to enforce this chapter of a change of address
or telephone number of the owner of the dangerous or potentially dangerous dog.
   7.   Fail to notify, within three business days, the Animal Control Officer
or the organization authorized to enforce this chapter if the dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog has died and the whereabouts of the dead dog.
   8.   Fail to notify, within one business day, the Animal Control Officer or
the organization authorized to enforce this chapter with the name, address, and
telephone number of a new owner of the dangerous or potentially dangerous dog
if the dog has been sold or has been given away.
   9.   Fail to surrender a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog to the
Animal Control Officer or the organization authorized to enforce this chapter
for impoundment and confinement, pending a disposition of the case when there
is a reason to believe that the dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog may
pose a threat to public safety.
CHAPTER 57
ILLEGAL OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS
 
57.01 Definitions                57.04 Exemption
57.02 Keeping of Illegal Animals 57.05 Keeping of Dangerous Animals
Prohibited                       Prohibited
57.03 Seizure, Impoundment, and  57.06 Seizure, Impoundment, and Disposition
Disposition of Illegal Animals   of Dangerous Animals
 
57.01   DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a
different intention, the following terms, for the purpose of this chapter, have
the meanings in this section:
   1.   “Illegal animal” means:
      A.   Any animal which is not naturally tame or gentle, and which is of a
wild nature or disposition, and which is capable of killing, inflicting serious
injury upon, maiming, or causing disease among, human beings or domestic
animals and having known tendencies as a species to do so;
      B.   Any animal declared to be illegal by the Board of Health or the
Mayor;
      C.   The following animals which shall be deemed to be illegal animals
per se:
         (1)   Lions, tigers, jaguars, leopards, cougars, lynx, and bobcats;
         (2)   Wolves, coyotes, and foxes;
         (3)   Badgers, wolverines, weasels, skunks, and mink;
         (4)   Raccoons;
         (5)   Bears;
         (6)   Monkeys and chimpanzees;
         (7)   Bats;
         (8)   Alligators and crocodiles;
         (9)   Elephants;
         (10)   Tarantula spiders and scorpions;
         (11)   Snakes that are venomous or constrictors;
         (12)   Gila monsters;
         (13)   Apes, baboons, and macaques;
         (14)   Opossums
   2.   “Dangerous animal” means any animal, except for an illegal animal per
se, as listed above, that has bitten or clawed a person or persons without
provocation while running at large, or any animal that has exhibited vicious
propensities in present or past conduct, including any animal which:
      A.   Has bitten a person or persons on two separate occasions within a
12-month period;
      B.   Did bite once causing injuries above the shoulders of a person;
      C.   Could not be controlled or restrained by the owner at the time of
the attack to prevent the occurrence;
      D.   Has attacked or bitten any domestic animal or fowl on two separate
occasions within a 12-month period; or
      E.   Has been found to possess such a propensity by a majority of the
Council, after notice and hearing.
57.02   KEEPING OF ILLEGAL ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall own, keep, shelter, or harbor any illegal animal or act as a
temporary custodian for such animal, or keep for any other purpose or in any
other capacity within the City any illegal animal, except in the following
circumstances:
   1.   The keeping of illegal animals in a public zoo, bona fide educational
or medical institution, humane society, or museum where they are kept as live
specimens for the public to view, or for the purpose of instruction, research,
or study.
   2.   The keeping of illegal animals for exhibition to the public by a
circus, carnival, exhibit, or show.
   3.   The keeping of illegal animals in a bona fide, licensed veterinary
hospital for treatment.
   4.   The keeping of illegal animals by a wildlife rescue organization with
appropriate permits from the Iowa Department of Natural Resources.
   5.   Any illegal animals under the jurisdiction of and in the possession of
the Iowa Department of Natural Resources, pursuant to Chapters 481A and 481B of
the Code of Iowa.
   6.   Any illegal animal exempted pursuant to Section
57.04.
57.03   SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT, AND DISPOSITION OF ILLEGAL ANIMALS.
   1.   In the event that an illegal animal is found at large and unattended
upon public property, or the property of someone other than its owner, thereby
creating a hazard to person or property, such animal may, in the discretion of
the Police Chief or the Chief’s designee, be destroyed. The City shall be under
no duty to attempt the confinement or capture of an illegal animal found at
large, nor shall it have a duty to notify the owner of such animal prior to its
destruction.
   2.   Upon the complaint of any individual that a person is keeping,
sheltering, or harboring an illegal animal on premises in the City, the Police
Chief shall cause the matter to be investigated; and if, after investigation,
the facts indicate that the person named in the complaint is keeping,
sheltering, or harboring an illegal animal in the City, the Police Chief shall
order the person named in the complaint safely to remove such animal from the
City, permanently place the animal with an organization or group allowed under
Section
57.02 to possess illegal animals, or destroy the animal, within three days of
the receipt of such order. Such order shall be contained in a notice to remove
the illegal animal, which notice shall be given in writing to the person
keeping, sheltering, or harboring the animal and shall be served personally or
by certified mail. Such order and notice to remove the illegal animal shall not
be required where such animal has previously caused serious physical harm or
death to any person, in which case the Police Chief shall cause the animal to
be immediately seized and impounded or killed if seizure and impoundment are
not possible without risk of serious physical injury or death to any person.
   3.   The order to remove an illegal animal issued by the Police Chief may be
appealed to the City Administrator. In order to appeal such order, written
notice of appeal must be filed with the City Administrator within three days
after receipt of the order contained in the notice to remove the illegal
animal. Failure to file such written notice of appeal shall constitute a waiver
of right to appeal the order of the Police Chief.
   4.   The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for such appeal and shall
be delivered personally or by certified mail to the City Administrator. The
hearing of such appeal shall be scheduled within seven days of receipt of the
notice of appeal. After such hearing, the City Administrator may affirm or
reverse the order of the Police Chief. Such determination shall be contained in
a written decision and shall be filed with the City Administrator within three
days after the hearing, or any continued session thereof.
   5.   If the City Administrator affirms the action of the Police Chief, the
City Administrator shall order in its written decision that the individual or
entity owning, sheltering, harboring, or keeping such illegal animal, remove
such animal from the City, permanently place such animal with an organization
or group allowed under Section
57.02 to possess illegal animals, or destroy it. The decision and order shall
immediately be served upon the person or entity against whom rendered in the
same manner as the notice of removal. If the original order of the Police Chief
is not appealed and is not complied with within three days, or the order of the
City Administrator, after appeal, is not complied with within three days of its
issuance, the Police Chief is authorized to seize and impound such illegal
animal or kill the animal if seizure and impoundment is not possible without
risk of serious physical injury or death to any person. An animal which is
seized shall be impounded for a period of seven days. If, at the end of the
impoundment period, the individual or entity against whom the decision and
order of the City Administrator was issued has not petitioned the County
District Court for a review of said order, the City Administrator shall cause
the animal to be disposed of by sale, permanently place such animal with an
organization or group allowed under Section
57.02 to possess such animals, or destroy such animal in a humane manner.
Failure to comply with an order issued pursuant to this chapter shall
constitute a misdemeanor offense.
57.04   EXEMPTION.
   1.   Any person owning or keeping an illegal animal as of February 1, 1985,
may obtain an exemption, allowing that person to continue to keep such animal
by complying with the provisions of this section.
   2.   A person owning or keeping an illegal animal as of February 1, 1985, in
order to obtain an exemption, must register such animal with the Clerk prior to
March 31, 1985. The animal must be re-registered each year subsequent thereto
until the animal dies or is otherwise removed from the City.
   3.   The person shall provide the Clerk with:
      A.   Their name and address;
      B.   The address where the animal is kept;
      C.   A description of the animal;
      D.   A description of the method of containing or controlling the animal
at that location; and
      E.   Evidence of the existence of a certificate or policy of insurance in
an amount not less than $100,000.00, providing liability coverage for all
damages or injuries which might arise to any person as a result of the keeping
of such animal.
      F.   Certification from a licensed doctor of veterinary medicine that the
animal is healthy and is not infected with rabies or any disease dangerous to
humans.
   4.   As a condition of exemption, the owner or keeper of the illegal animal
must sign an agreement, provided by the Clerk, indemnifying the City and
agreeing to defend it and hold it harmless from all claims for damages,
indemnity, or contributions arising as a result of the keeping or ownership of
such animal.
   5.   All illegal animals, not exempted by the provisions of this section,
must be removed from the City prior to March 31, 1985.
   6.   If any owner or keeper of an animal exempted pursuant to the provision
of this section shall fail to re-register the animal in any subsequent year,
the City may proceed to have the animal removed or destroyed pursuant to this
chapter.
57.05   KEEPING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall own, keep, shelter, or harbor for any reason within the City
a dangerous animal so defined herein, except in the following circumstances:
   1.   Animals under the control of a law enforcement or military agency.
   2.   The keeping of guard dogs. However, guard dogs must be kept within a
structure or fixed enclosure at all times, and any guard dog found at large may
be processed as a dangerous animal pursuant to the provisions of Sections
57.05 and
57.06. Any premises guarded by a guard dog shall be prominently posted with a
sign containing the wording “guard dog,” “dangerous dog,” or words of similar
import, and the owner of such premises shall inform the Police Chief that a
guard dog is on duty at said premises.
57.06   SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT, AND DISPOSITION OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   1.   The Police Chief, in their discretion or upon receipt of a complaint
alleging that a particular animal is a dangerous animal as defined herein, may
initiate proceedings to declare such animal a dangerous animal. If the owner
contests said designation, a hearing on the matter shall be conducted by the
City Administrator. The person owning, keeping, sheltering, or harboring the
animal in question shall be given not less than 72 hours’ written notice of the
time and place of said hearing. Said notice shall set forth the description of
the animal in question and the basis for the allegation of dangerousness. The
notice shall also set forth that if the animal is determined to be dangerous,
the owner may be required to license and confine the animal as required by this
chapter. The notice shall be served upon any adult residing at the premises
where the animal is located or may be posted on those premises if no adult is
present to accept service.
   2.   If, after hearing, the City Administrator determines an animal is a
dangerous animal, or a dangerous animal held in violation of this chapter as
set out in the notice of hearing, the City Administrator shall order the person
owning, sheltering, harboring, or keeping the animal to license and confine the
animal as required by this chapter, or remove it from the City. The order shall
immediately be served upon the individual or entity against whom issued in the
same manner as the notice of hearing. If the order is not complied with within
three days of its issuance, the City Administrator is authorized to seize and
impound the animal. An animal so seized shall be impounded for a period of
seven days. If, at the end of the impoundment period, the person against whom
the order of the City Administrator was issued has not appealed such order to
the Council, or has not complied with the order, the City Administrator shall
cause the animal or animals to be destroyed.
   3.   The order to license, confine, or remove a dangerous animal from the
City issued by the City Administrator may be appealed to the Council. In order
to appeal such order, written notice of appeal must be filed with the City
Administrator within three days after receipt of the order. Failure to file
such written notice of appeal shall constitute a waiver of right to appeal the
order of the City Administrator.
   4.   The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for such appeal and shall
be delivered personally or by certified mail to the City Administrator. The
hearing of such appeal shall be scheduled within 20 days of the receipt of
notice of appeal. The hearing may be continued for good cause. After such
hearing, the Council may affirm or reverse the order of the City Administrator.
Such determination shall be contained in a written decision and shall be filed
with the City Administrator within three days after the hearing, or any
continued session thereof. The hearing shall be confined to the record made
before the City Administrator, the arguments of the parties or their
representatives, any additional evidence which was not available at the time of
the hearing before the City Administrator, and any other information the
Council deems necessary.
   5.   If the Council affirms the action of the City Administrator, the
Council shall order in its written decision that the person owning, sheltering,
harboring, or keeping such dangerous animal shall license and confine said
animal as required by this chapter or remove such animal from the City. The
decision and order shall immediately be served upon the person or entity
against whom rendered in the same manner as the notice set out in Subsection 1
of this section. If the original order of the City Administrator is not
appealed and is not complied with within three days or the order of the Council
after appeal is not complied with within three days of its issuance, the Police
Chief is authorized to seize and impound such dangerous animal. An animal so
seized shall be impounded for a period of seven days. If, at the end of the
impoundment period, the person against whom the decision and order of the City
Administrator or the Council was issued has not petitioned the County District
Court for a review of said order or has not complied with the order, the City
Administrator shall cause the animal to be destroyed in a humane manner.
   6.   Failure to comply with an order of the City Administrator issued
pursuant hereto and not appealed, or of the Council after appeal, is a
misdemeanor.
   7.   Any animal which is alleged to be dangerous, and which is under
impoundment or quarantine at the animal shelter shall not be released to the
owner but shall continue to be held at the expense of the owner pending the
outcome of the hearing. All costs of such impoundment or quarantine shall be
paid by the owner if the animal is determined to be dangerous. If the animal is
not determined to be dangerous, all costs shall be paid by the City, except
costs attributable to initial confinement prior to notice or costs of any
required quarantine which shall nonetheless be paid by the owner.
CHAPTER 60
TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
 
60.01 ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
60.02 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
60.03 GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
60.04 SPEED REGULATIONS
60.05 TURNING REGULATIONS
60.06 STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
60.07 LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
60.08 PEDESTRIANS
60.09 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
60.10 PARKING REGULATIONS
60.11 TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
60.12 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND SNOWMOBILES
60.13 BICYCLE REGULATIONS
 
** TITLE. **
   This chapter may be known and cited as the “Windsor Heights Traffic Code”
and is referred to in this chapter as the “Traffic Code.”
SUBCHAPTER 60.01
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01.01 Definitions                    60.01.05 Police Officer’s Authority
60.01.02 Administration and Enforcement 60.01.06 Obedience to Police Officers
60.01.03 Power to Direct Traffic        60.01.07 Parades Regulated
60.01.04 Reports of Traffic Accidents
 
60.01.01   DEFINITIONS.
   Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law,
such definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are hereby adopted
by reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
   1.   “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway when 50 percent or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 300
feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(7))
   2.   “MPH” means miles per hour.
   3.   “Parade” means any march or procession of 10 or more persons, with or
without vehicles, organized for marching or moving on the streets, sidewalks,
or other public ways in an organized fashion or manner or any march or
procession of persons or vehicles represented or advertised to the public as a
parade.
   4.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   5.   “Pedestrian” means a person afoot or a person using a pedestrian
conveyance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(51))
   6.   “Pedestrian conveyance” means any human-powered device by which a
pedestrian may move other than by walking or by which a pedestrian may move
another person, including but not limited to a wheelchair, stroller,
skateboard, scooter, or other similar device. Pedestrian conveyance also
includes an electric personal assistive mobility device and any other device
used to move a person sitting or standing on the device regardless of whether
the device is powered by an electric motor, so long as the electric motor
produces less than 750 watts. Pedestrian conveyance does not include a bicycle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(51)(A))
   7.   “Police officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   8.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban, or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(63))
   9.   “Road work zone” means the portion of a highway which is identified by
posted or moving signs as the site of construction, maintenance, survey, or
utility work. The zone starts upon meeting the first sign identifying the zone
and continues until a posted or moving sign indicates that the work zone has
ended.
   10.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(70))
   11.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   12.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
   13.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   14.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in
the business, school, or residence districts.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(78))
   15.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and
devices not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the
purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
   16.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway. Vehicle does
not include:
      A.   Any device moved by human power, including a low-speed electric
bicycle.
      B.   Any device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
      C.   Any personal delivery device operated pursuant to Chapter 321O of
the Code of Iowa.
      D.   Any integral part of a truck tractor or road tractor which is
mounted on the frame of the truck tractor or road tractor immediately behind
the cab and which may be used to transport persons and property, but which
cannot be drawn upon the highway by the truck tractor or another motor vehicle.
      E.   Any steering axle, dolly, auxiliary axle, or other integral part of
another vehicle which in and of itself is incapable of commercially
transporting any person or property but is used primarily to support another
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Section 321.1(90))
60.01.02   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the police officer and other officials as
provided by this Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
60.01.03   POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   A police officer or, in the absence of a police officer, any officer of the
Fire Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the
event of an emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 and 321.236(2))
60.01.04   REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the
City shall file a report as and when required by the State Department of
Transportation. A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of police officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.01.05   POLICE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
   A police officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of
the driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading, or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A police officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.01.06   OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
60.01.07   PARADES REGULATED.
   No person shall conduct, cause, or participate in any parade on any street,
except as provided herein:
   1.   Permit Required. No parade shall be conducted without first obtaining a
written permit from the Mayor or Police Chief.
   2.   Permit Application. The permit application must be made in writing and
shall state:
      A.   The date and time for the parade;
      B.   The name, address, signature, and telephone number of the applicant;
      C.   The route of the parade
      D.   The approximate number of persons and vehicles in the parade; and
      E.   Funeral processions are exempted from obtaining a Parade Permit.
   3.   Restrictions. The City shall issue the applicant a permit unless:
      A.   The Mayor or Police Chief determines that the time, route, or size
of the parade will disrupt the use of any street or sidewalk that is ordinarily
subject to significant congestion or traffic;
      B.   Another Parade Permit has already been issued for that day; or
      C.   The proposed parade violates any other governing law or ordinance.
   4.   Hours. No permit shall be granted for a parade through a residential
district, except during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., unless a waiver is
granted by the Council.
   5.   Fee. No fee shall be charged for the Parade Permit.
   6.   Parade Conditions. The Mayor or Police Chief is empowered to prescribe
the conditions governing any parade, procession, or march, including the
designation of the routes to be followed, held, or proposed to be held on any
public street, sidewalks, or other public ways. Should the public interest so
require, they may, for limited periods of time, prohibit or restrict parking on
any street where unrestricted or restricted parking is permitted under the
provisions of this Code. Signs shall be placed, police officers stationed, or
other steps taken to inform the public of special regulations. The Mayor or
Police Chief may approve of other vehicles such as golf carts, all-terrain
vehicles, or off-road utility sports vehicles to be operated on or in close
proximity to the parade route, immediately before, during, and after the event.
   7.   Parade Control. Persons participating in any parade shall at all times
be subject to the lawful orders and directions, in the performance of their
duties, of law enforcement personnel, other City employees, or designated
parade officials.
CHAPTER 60 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
SUBCHAPTER 60.02
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
60.02.01 Installation of Traffic Control Devices 60.02.04 Traffic Lanes
60.02.02 Compliance                              60.02.05 Standards
60.02.03 Crosswalks
 
60.02.01   INSTALLATION OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
The City Administrator or designee shall cause to be placed and maintained
traffic control devices when and as required under this traffic code or under
State law. The Police Chief shall cause to be placed emergency or temporary
traffic control devices for the duration of an emergency or temporary condition
as traffic conditions may require to regulate, guide, or warn traffic. The City
Administrator shall keep a record of all such traffic control devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
60.02.02   COMPLIANCE.
   No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official
traffic control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, unless at the time otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to
the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under
Section 321.231 and 321.231A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
60.02.03   CROSSWALKS.
   The City Administrator or designee is hereby authorized to designate and
maintain crosswalks by appropriate traffic control devices at intersections
where, due to traffic conditions, there is particular danger to pedestrians
crossing the street or roadway, and at such other places as traffic conditions
require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4) and 321.255)
60.02.04   TRAFFIC LANES.
   Where traffic lanes have been marked on street pavements at such places as
traffic conditions require, it is unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the boundaries of any such lane
except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to making a lawful
turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4) and 321.255)
60.02.05   STANDARDS.
   Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
CHAPTER 60 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
SUBCHAPTER 60.03
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
60.03.01 Violation of Regulations        60.03.06 Quiet Zones
60.03.02 Boarding or Alighting from      60.03.07 Pushcarts and Animals on
Moving Vehicle                           Roadway
60.03.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks           60.03.08 Excessive Tire Noise
60.03.04 Clinging to Vehicle             60.03.09 Dumping of Snow
60.03.05 Climbing on Vehicles Prohibited 60.03.10 Obstructing View at
                                         Intersections
 
60.03.01   VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of
a police officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or
who fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
   1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.
   2.   Section 321.25 – Application for registration and title; cards
attached.
   3.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited; exception.
   4.   Section 321.34 – Plates or validation sticker furnished.
   5.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.
   6.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.
   7.   Section 321.41 – Change of address or name or fuel type.
   8.   Section 321.45 – Title transfer.
   9.   Section 321.46 – New title upon transfer of ownership.
   10.   Section 321.47 – Transfers by operation of law.
   11.   Section 321.48 – Vehicles acquired for resale.
   12.   Section 321.52 – Out of state sales.
   13.   Section 321.54 – Registration and financial liability coverage
required of certain nonresident carriers.
   14.   Section 321.55 – Registration and financial liability coverage
required for certain vehicles owned or operated by nonresidents.
   15.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.
   16.   Section 321.62 – Records required for special plates.
   17.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.
   18.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.
   19.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.
   20.   Section 321.91 – Limitation on liability; penalty for abandonment.
   21.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.
   22.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.
   23.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses against title law.
   24.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.
   25.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed; operation of commercial
vehicles.
   26.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicle with expired license.
   27.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits, commercial learner’s permits,
and chauffeur’s instruction permits.
   28.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged
fourteen through seventeen.
   29.   Section 321.193 – Restrictions on licenses; penalty.
   30.   Section 321.194 – Special minors’ restricted license.
   31.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order;
penalties.
   32.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card; penalty.
   33.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.
   34.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain tobacco, tobacco products
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes.
   35.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or when
disqualified; penalties.
   36.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.
   37.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.
   38.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.
   39.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.
   40.   Section 321.223 – Driver’s license inspection for motor vehicle
rental.
   41.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.
   42.   Section 321.229 – Obedience to peace officers.
   43.   Section 321.231 – Authorized emergency vehicles and police bicycles.
   44.   Section 321.232 – Speed detection jamming devices; penalty.
   45.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles, highway use.
   46.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
   47.   Section 321.235B – Low-speed electric bicycles.
   48.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.
   49.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic control signal.
   50.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.
   51.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs, or signals;
unlawful possession; traffic signal preemption devices.
   52.   Section 321.262 – Leaving scene of traffic accident prohibited;
vehicle damage only; removal of vehicles.
   53.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid; leaving scene of personal
injury accident.
   54.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.
   55.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.
   56.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.
   57.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
   58.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while
driving; text-messaging.
   59.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.
   60.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.
   61.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.
   62.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.
   63.   Section 321.284 – Open container in motor vehicles, drivers.
   64.   Section 321.284A – Open container in motor vehicles, passengers.
   65.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.
   66.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.
   67.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways; exceptions.
   68.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.
   69.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.
   70.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.
   71.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.
   72.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.
   73.   Section 321.305 – One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands.
   74.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.
   75.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.
   76.   Section 321.308 – Motor trucks and towed vehicles; distance
requirements.
   77.   Section 321.309 – Towing.
   78.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.
   79.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.
   80.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.
   81.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.
   82.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.
   83.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.
   84.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.
   85.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.
   86.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.
   87.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.
   88.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.
   89.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.
   90.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.
   91.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.
   92.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
   93.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.
   94.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working on
highways.
   95.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.
   96.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.
   97.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers.
   98.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.
   99.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
   100.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting
warning.
   101.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.
   102.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.
   103.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.
   104.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.
   105.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.
   106.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.
   107.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.
   108.   Section 321.364 – Preventing contamination of food by hazardous
material.
   109.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.
   110.   Section 321.366 – Acts prohibited on fully-controlled access
facilities.
   111.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.
   112.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.
   113.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.
   114.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.
   115.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.
   116.   Section 321.372 – Discharging pupils, stopping requirements;
penalties.
   117.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles.
   118.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.
   119.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.
   120.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.
   121.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.
   122.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.
   123.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles, motorized bicycles, and
all-terrain vehicles.
   124.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.
   125.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.
   126.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.
   127.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.
   128.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.
   129.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.
   130.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.
   131.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.
   132.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.
   133.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.
   134.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.
   135.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.
   136.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.
   137.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.
   138.   Section 321.406 – Cowl lamps.
   139.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.
   140.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.
   141.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.
   142.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.
   143.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.
   144.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.
   145.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.
   146.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.
   147.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front, rear lights.
   148.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.
   149.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.
   150.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.
   151.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.
   152.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, air horns, and bells prohibited.
   153.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.
   154.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.
   155.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.
   156.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.
   157.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.
   158.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.
   159.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.
   160.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.
   161.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.
   162.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.
   163.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.
   164.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety rules.
   165.   Section 321.449A – Rail crew transport drivers.
   166.   Section 321.449B – Texting or using a mobile telephone while
operating a commercial motor vehicle.
   167.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation regulations.
   168.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.
   169.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.
   170.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles.
   171.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.
   172.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.
   173.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.
   174.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.
   175.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.
   176.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight; exceptions, penalties.
   177.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.
   178.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.
   179.   Section 321A.32 – Other violations; penalties.
60.03.02   BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM MOVING VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle on the public highway while
such vehicle is in motion.
60.03.03   VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area
except at a driveway.
60.03.04   CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or themselves to any
vehicle upon a roadway.
60.03.05   CLIMBING ON VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to jump or climb on or hang upon any vehicle
on any street, alley, or other public place without the permission of the
driver thereof.
60.03.06   QUIET ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
60.03.07   PUSHCARTS AND ANIMALS ON ROADWAY.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the
provisions of this Code applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those
provisions which by their nature can have no application.
60.03.08   EXCESSIVE TIRE NOISE.
   No person shall skid, slide or spin the tires of the motor vehicle such
person is operating so as to cause the emission of excessive or unusual noise
when the same is not necessary for the safe operation of the vehicle.
60.03.09   DUMPING OF SNOW.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be
thrown, pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the Business District it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent. Arrangements for the prompt removal of
such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow. † 6
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2))
 
Notes
6 †  EDITOR’S NOTE: See Section 40.03.06 of this Code for additional provisions
  regarding use of City streets.
60.03.10   OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
   It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to
obstruct the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear
view of traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such
obstruction is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be
abated in the manner provided by
Chapter 50.
CHAPTER 60 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
SUBCHAPTER 60.04
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
60.04.01 General                 60.04.04 Special Speed Zones
60.04.02 State Code Speed Limits 60.04.05 Minimum Speed
60.04.03 Parks and Parking Lots
 
60.04.01   GENERAL.
   Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and
of any other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on
any street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a
stop within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
60.04.02   STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
   The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
   1.   Business District – 20 MPH.
   2.   Residence or School District – 25 MPH.
   3.   Suburban District – 45 MPH.
60.04.03   PARKS AND PARKING LOTS.
   A speed in excess of 15 MPH in any public park, cemetery, or parking lot,
unless specifically designated otherwise in this subchapter, is unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(5))
60.04.04   SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
   In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section
60.04.02 is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions
found to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of the City
street system, the Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher
or lower speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location. The
following special speed zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
   1.   Special 30 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 30 MPH is unlawful on
any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   63 rd Street. 63 rd Street, from the south line of Hickman Avenue to
the south line of University Avenue.
      B.   University Avenue. University Avenue, from the east corporate limits
to the west corporate limits.
   2.   Special 35 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 35 MPH is unlawful on
any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   63 rd Street. 63 rd Street, from the south line of University Avenue
to the south corporate limits.
      B.   73 rd Street. 73 rd Street, from the south corporate limits to the
south line of University Avenue
   3.   Interstate Highway 235. Notwithstanding any speed restrictions
contained in this Traffic Code, the following speed restrictions apply to
Interstate Highway 235 when official signs are erected giving notice thereof:
      A.   Maximum Speed. No person shall operate a vehicle on said highway at
a speed in excess of 60 MPH.
      B.   Minimum Speed. No person shall operate a vehicle on said highway at
a speed less than 40 MPH.
      C.   Vehicle Capability. No person shall operate any vehicle, implement,
or conveyance on said highway which is incapable of obtaining and maintaining a
speed of 40 MPH.
60.04.05   MINIMUM SPEED.
   A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede
or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced
speed is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
CHAPTER 60 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
SUBCHAPTER 60.05
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
60.05.01 Turning at Intersections 60.05.03 Left Turn for Parking
60.05.02 U-Turns
 
60.05.01   TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
   1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right
half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
   3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street
shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way
street shall be made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street
being entered upon leaving the intersection.
   The Police Chief may cause markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or
adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions
require, that a different course from that specified above be traveled by
vehicles turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons, or signs are so
placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other
than as directed and required by such markers, buttons, or signs.
60.05.02   U-TURNS.
   It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection;
however, U-turns are prohibited within the Business District and at
intersections where there are automatic traffic signals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(9))
60.05.03   LEFT TURN FOR PARKING.
   No person shall make a left-hand turn, crossing the centerline of the
street, for the purpose of parking on said street.
CHAPTER 60 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
SUBCHAPTER 60.06
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
60.06.01 Stop or Yield                 60.06.04 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
60.06.02 School Stops                  60.06.05 Pedestrians’ Right-Of-Way
60.06.03 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
 
60.06.01   STOP OR YIELD.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall stop or yield as directed by traffic control
devices posted in accordance with Subchapter 60.02 of this Traffic Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
60.06.02   SCHOOL STOPS.
   At any school crossing zone, every driver of a vehicle approaching said zone
shall bring the vehicle to a full stop at a point 10 feet from the approach
side of the crosswalk marked by an authorized school stop sign and thereafter
proceed in a careful and prudent manner until the vehicle shall have passed
through such school crossing zone.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.249)
60.06.03   STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
60.06.04   STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
   Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
60.06.05   PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver
of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need
be, to so yield to a pedestrian or a person riding a bicycle crossing the
roadway within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
CHAPTER 60 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
SUBCHAPTER 60.07
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
60.07.01 Temporary Embargo                  60.07.04 Load Limits on Bridges
60.07.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight 60.07.05 Truck Routes
60.07.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets
 
60.07.01   TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
   If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of
deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets
will be seriously damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an
amount specified by the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so
designated by such signs erected in accordance with Subchapter 60.02 of this
Traffic Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 and 472)
60.07.02   PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
   The Police Chief may, upon application and good cause being shown therefor,
issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move
a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the
maximum specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named
in the permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the
City is responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 321E.1)
60.07.03   LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the streets or parts of streets for which said signs are
erected in accordance with Subchapter 60.02 of this Traffic Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 475)
60.07.04   LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.
   Where it has been determined that any City bridge has a capacity less than
the maximum permitted on the streets of the City, or on the street serving the
bridge, the Council may cause to be posted and maintained signs, in accordance
with Subchapter 60.02 of this Traffic Code, on said bridge and at suitable
distances ahead of the entrances thereof to warn drivers of such maximum load
limits. No person shall drive upon said bridge any vehicle weighing, loaded or
unloaded, in excess of such posted limit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)
60.07.05   TRUCK ROUTES.
   When truck routes have been designated in accordance with Subchapter
60.02, no person shall operate any motor truck, as defined below, upon any
street or parts of streets not designated as a truck route within this section.
   1.   Definitions. For use in this subsection, the following terms are
defined:
      A.   Light Delivery Truck, Panel Delivery Truck, Delivery Truck, or
Pickup Truck. Any motor vehicle designed to carry not more than 2,000 pounds of
merchandise or freight of any kind.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
      B.   Motor Truck. Every motor vehicle designed primarily for carrying
livestock, merchandise, freight of every kind, or over nine persons as
passengers, except light delivery trucks, panel delivery trucks, delivery
trucks, and pickup trucks.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
   2.   Truck Routes Designated. Motor trucks, as defined in this subsection,
having no fixed terminal within the City or making no scheduled or definite
stops within the City for the purpose of loading or unloading shall only travel
over or upon the following streets within the City and none other.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
      A.   63 rd Street.
      B.   73 rd Street - only that portion of 73 rd Street south of University
Avenue.
      C.   Hickman Road.
      D.   Interstate Highway 235.
      E.   University Avenue.
   3.   Deliveries Off Truck Route. Any “motor truck,” as defined in this
subsection, having a fixed terminal, making a scheduled or definite stop within
the City for the purpose of loading or unloading shall proceed over or upon the
designated routes set out in this section to the nearest point of its scheduled
or definite stop and shall proceed thereto, load or unload and return, by the
most direct route to its point of departure from said designated route.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   4.   Employer’s Responsibility. The owner, or any other person, employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any motor truck shall not require or
knowingly permit the operation of such vehicle upon a street in any manner
contrary to this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   5.   Exceptions. The provisions of this section do not apply to fire
apparatus, school buses, and other motor vehicles owned and operated by a
governmental agency, road machinery, implements of husbandry temporarily moved
upon a highway, or to a vehicle operated under the terms of a special permit as
provided in this title.
CHAPTER 60 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
SUBCHAPTER 60.08
PEDESTRIANS
 
60.08.01 Pedestrians Subject to Traffic 60.08.05 Prohibited Crossing
Control Signals
60.08.02 Pedestrians on Left            60.08.06 Pedestrians Prohibited on
                                        Interstate Highway 235
60.08.03 Pedestrian’s Right-of-Way    60.08.07 Pedestrians Soliciting Rides
60.08.04 When Pedestrian Shall Yield    60.08.08 Pedestrian Safety, Use of
                                        Medians
 
60.08.01   PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Pedestrians are subject to traffic control signals at intersections, but at
all other places pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges and shall be
subject to the restrictions stated in this subchapter. Any person failing to
heed the command of an automatic traffic control signal shall be fined as
outlined in the Fee Schedule.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.325)
60.08.02   PEDESTRIANS ON LEFT.
   Pedestrians shall, at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on
the left side of such street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
60.08.03   PEDESTRIAN’S RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver
of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be,
to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk
or within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, except as otherwise
provided in this subchapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
60.08.04   WHEN PEDESTRIAN SHALL YIELD.
   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway. Any pedestrian crossing a
roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing
has been provided shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the
roadway. The foregoing rules of this section have no application under the
conditions stated in Section 60.08.05 when pedestrians are prohibited from
crossing at certain designated places.
60.08.05   PROHIBITED CROSSING.
   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk. No
pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in any business
district.
60.08.06   PEDESTRIANS PROHIBITED ON INTERSTATE HIGHWAY 235.
   No person shall walk upon, along, or within any fenced portion of the right-
of-way of Interstate Highway 235, except persons duly engaged in construction,
maintenance, or law enforcement, or persons present for the purpose of leaving,
servicing, or removing a disabled vehicle or aiding the injured.
60.08.07   PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES.
   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride from
the driver of any private vehicle. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed so as to prevent any pedestrian from standing on that portion of the
street or roadway not ordinarily used for vehicular traffic for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any vehicle.
60.08.08   PEDESTRIAN SAFETY, USE OF MEDIANS.
   1.   The Council makes the following findings and adopts the following
statement of purposes of this section:
      A.   The National Association of City Transportation Officials Urban
Street Design Guide (2011) states that a median or island should be at least
six feet wide where pedestrians are present. This is consistent with the Public
Rights-of-Way Accessibility Guidelines promulgated by the United States Access
Board which specify that a pedestrian refuge in a street must have a top
surface width of six feet, excluding curbs.
      B.   For streets with a speed limit of 30 MPH or higher, pedestrians are
prohibited from standing, sitting, or staying on a median for any purpose other
than to cross the street unless the width of the top surface of the median,
excluding the curbs is at least six feet wide.
      C.   Section 60.08.08(B) does not apply to:
         (1)   Police officers, peace officers, and parking enforcement
personnel of the Police Department or employees of the Fire Department while
performing official duties of the City.
         (2)   Employees or contactors for the City or other individuals,
authorized by the City to perform construction or maintenance work on City
streets or rights-of-way, while performing construction or maintenance work on
the street provided that proper street signage is used and streets are blocked
off as required by the City.
         (3)   Any individual responding to an emergency in the street.
CHAPTER 60 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
SUBCHAPTER 60.09
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
60.09.01   ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
   When appropriate signs are in place, as provided for in Subchapter
60.02 of this Traffic Code, vehicular traffic, other than permitted cross
traffic, shall move only in the direction indicated on such signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(4) and 321.305)
CHAPTER 60 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
SUBCHAPTER 60.10
PARKING REGULATIONS
 
60.10.01 Parking Limited or Controlled 60.10.07 Parking Prohibited
60.10.02 Park Adjacent to Curb         60.10.08 Persons With Disabilities
                                       Parking
60.10.03 Parking On One-Way Streets    60.10.09 Parking Limited
60.10.04 Angle Parking                 60.10.10 Snow Removal
60.10.05 Manner of Angle Parking       60.10.11 Temporary No-Parking Signs Near
                                       Excavations
60.10.06 Parking for Certain Purposes   
Illegal
 
60.10.01   PARKING LIMITED OR CONTROLLED.
   Parking of vehicles shall be controlled or limited where so indicated by
designated traffic control devices in accordance with Subchapter
60.02. No person shall stop, park, or stand a vehicle in violation of any such
posted parking regulations unless in compliance with the directions of a police
officer.
60.10.02   PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking
and vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
60.10.03   PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
60.10.04   ANGLE PARKING.
   Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
   1.   66 th Street, on the east side, from the north line of University
Avenue to a point 100 feet north of the north line of University Avenue, at an
angle of 45 degrees.
60.10.05   MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
   Upon those streets or portions of streets that have been signed or marked
for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an
angle to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as
indicated by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle or the load
thereon, when said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall
extend into the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right
angles to the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
60.10.06   PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
   No person shall park a vehicle for any of the following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1))
   1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale.
   2.   Repairing. For lubricating, repairing, or for commercial washing of
such vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
   3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising.
   4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a
duly established marketplace or when so authorized or licensed under this Code.
   5.   Abandoned. Vehicles defined as “abandoned” pursuant to Section
52.01.
60.10.07   PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(5))
   2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1))
   3.   Mailboxes. Between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through
Saturday, within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox which is so placed and so
equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1))
   4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(1))
   5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(2))
   6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 10 feet of an
intersection of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(3))
   7.   Fire Hydrant. Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(4))
   8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(6))
   9.   Railroad Crossing. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(8))
   10.   Fire Station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within 75 feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(9))
   11.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when such stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(10))
   12.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked
at the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(11))
   13.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(13))
   14.   Churches, Nursing Homes, and Other Buildings. A space of 50 feet is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium,
hotel having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab
stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor
vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or
discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is
necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
   15.   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. The provisions of this
subsection do not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley that is 18 feet wide
or less, provided that said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1))
   16.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(15))
   17.   Area Between Lot Line and Curb Line. That area of the public way not
covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb line, where
curbing has been installed.
   18.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any
part of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
   19.   Safety Zones. Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 10
feet of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(7))
   20.   Off-Street Parking. On privately owned property or in an area
developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of the owner,
lessee, or person in charge of such privately owned property or facility. A
violation of this subsection shall place such vehicle in the status of an
illegally parked vehicle and, upon complaint of the owner, lessee, or person in
charge of the privately owned property or facility, said vehicle may be dealt
with pursuant to the procedures in this Code governing abandoned vehicles.
   21.   Automotive Sales. In an area not zoned for commercial use, parking on
public property incidental to the sale of automobiles, as defined in Section
167.07(2)(A).
   22.   Fire Lanes. Within any no parking fire lane or emergency vehicle lane
or within 10 feet of any no parking fire lane or emergency vehicle lane traffic
control device.
   23.   Signs. At any place where authorized signs prohibit stopping,
standing, or parking of vehicles.
60.10.08   PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
   The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of
persons with disabilities parking spaces:
   1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
   2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4(2))
      A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit.
      B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or
being transported in accordance with Section 321L.2(1)(b) of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section
321L.8 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
      A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must
comply with the requirements of Section 321L.2A(1) of the Code of Iowa when
utilizing a wheelchair parking cone.
      B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone that is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A(1) of the Code of Iowa.
60.10.09   PARKING LIMITED.
   No person shall park on any public roadway in violation of the following
regulations.
   1.   Unattached Trailers. No person shall park or leave any trailer that is
not attached to an operable motorized vehicle capable of moving the trailer on
any public roadway for more than 24 hours, unless approved by a City official.
   2.   Attached Trailers. No person shall park any trailer, semitrailer, or
other nonmotorized vehicles of any type or size on any public roadway in a
residential district, except as herein provided. Such vehicles may park for the
purpose of loading, unloading, or making local deliveries, but in no instance
shall such activity exceed a period of 48 hours.
   3.   Trucks. Motor vehicles of any type that exceed eight feet in height or
eight feet in width or 20 feet in length shall not be parked on any street in a
residential district, except as herein provided. Such vehicles may park for the
purpose of loading, unloading, or making local deliveries, but in no event
shall said activity exceed a period of 48 hours.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1))
      A.   Residential Districts. Excepting only when actually making pickups
or deliveries to or conducting lawful business at any resident or building
within the districts, governed by this section, no person shall park such
vehicle (including specifically any motor truck having a freight capacity
greater than one ton) on any portion of a street abutting or adjacent to
property zoned for R-1, R-1A, R-2, or R-3 occupancy as defined in this Code.
      B.   Business District. Excepting only when such vehicles are actually
engaged in the delivery or receiving of merchandise or cargo, no person shall
park or leave unattended such vehicle on any streets within the Business
District. When actually receiving or delivering merchandise or cargo such
vehicle shall be stopped or parked in a manner which will not interfere with
other traffic.
      C.   Livestock. No such vehicle containing livestock shall be parked on
any street, alley, or highway for a period of time of more than 30 minutes.
   4.   In Excess of 48 Hours. Unless otherwise specified in this subchapter,
no vehicle shall be parked or remain at the same location upon any public
roadway at any time for a period of 48 hours. Vehicles must be moved at least
10 feet in distance during each 48-hour period in order to avoid penalty under
this subchapter.
60.10.10   SNOW REMOVAL.
   1.   Parking Prohibition During Snow Emergency. No person shall park,
abandon, or leave unattended any vehicle on any public street, alley, or City-
owned off-street parking area during any snow emergency proclaimed by the
Public Works Director, the Police Chief, or their respective designees. A snow
emergency parking ban shall continue from the time of proclamation through 5:00
p.m. the following day. The Public Works Director, Police Chief, or their
designees may extend the duration of the parking ban if additional time is
needed to clear snow and ice. Notice of any extension shall be posted in the
same manner as the original proclamation and shall include the date and time
the parking ban will expire. Such parking bans shall apply uniformly.
   2.   Snow Emergency Proclamation and Notice. The City shall publish
information regarding vehicle owners’ responsibilities under this section at
least annually. When conditions or forecasts warrant, the Public Works
Director, Police Chief, or their designees shall proclaim a snow emergency and
direct City staff to post the proclamation on the City website or other mass
notification platforms. The duration of the emergency may be extended or
shortened as warranted by changing conditions.
   3.   Enforcement and Other Parking Regulations. This section shall not be
interpreted to suspend any other parking limitations or restrictions
established by this subchapter or by the direction of a police officer. In
addition to police officers, code enforcement officials, and public works
employees are authorized to enforce the provisions of this section. These
officials may issue citation complaints for violations and may impound vehicles
found in violation of this section, as provided in the Code.
60.10.11   TEMPORARY NO-PARKING SIGNS NEAR EXCAVATIONS.
   No person shall excavate or obstruct any street until the person first
reports to the Public Works Director, or authorized City official, of the
person’s intention to do so; whereupon, it shall be the duty of the Public
Works Director, or authorized City official, to authorize the erection of
temporary “NO PARKING” signs alongside of or opposite such area if the
stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles therein would obstruct traffic.
CHAPTER 60 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
SUBCHAPTER 60.11
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
60.11.01 Arrest or Citation   60.11.04 Admitted Violations
60.11.02 Scheduled Violations 60.11.05 Fine Collection
60.11.03 Parking Violations   60.11.06 Impounding Vehicles
 
60.11.01   ARREST OR CITATION.
   Whenever a police officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
   1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate, or
   2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate
a combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner
of Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 and 321.485)
60.11.02   SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
   For violations of the Traffic Code which are designated by Section 805.8A of
the Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of
those violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 and 805.8A)
60.11.03   PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   In the event of a parking violation of the provisions of this subchapter
regulating the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, it shall be the duty
of the police officers or other authorized employees of this City to issue a
notice of a fine and attach it to the vehicle in a conspicuous place. The
notice shall state:
   1.   The violation involved.
   2.   The state and license number of the vehicle.
   3.   The time the ticket was issued.
   4.   The location (may be described in terms of the hundred block, if
applicable).
60.11.04   ADMITTED VIOLATIONS.
   1.   In all cases of violations of the provisions of this subchapter
regulating the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, such violations that
are admitted may be charged and collected upon a simple notice of a fine, as
set forth in this subchapter.
   2.   Violations that are not paid as provided in this subchapter within 30
days after the date of the violation shall be deemed admitted and the
corresponding fine imposed.
   3.   The date on the notice of a fine issued for the alleged violation shall
be presumptive evidence of the date of the violation.
   4.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the stopping, standing, or parking of a vehicle, proof that the
particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any
such law or regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the
complaint was, at the time of such parking the registered owner of such
vehicle, shall be sufficient for conviction.
60.11.05   FINE COLLECTION.
   1.   The owner or operator of any vehicle who receives a simple notice of a
fine, either personally or by the placing of such notice on the vehicle, that
the vehicle is in violation of the ordinances of the City shall pay to the City
a fine as outlined in the Fee Schedule.
   2.   Any vehicle on which four or more overtime or illegal parking citations
or complaints from the City have been issued and have become delinquent shall
be deemed to be a habitual violator. For purposes of this subchapter, a
delinquent parking citation or complaint is one that has not been paid within
30 days of the date upon which the violation occurred. No person shall park a
vehicle and permit it to remain standing upon any public street or City-owned
parking lot or property in the City when there are four or more delinquent
parking citations or complaints from the City outstanding against that vehicle.
A violation of this section shall place such vehicle in the status of an
illegally parked vehicle, and the vehicle may be dealt with pursuant to Section
60.11.06.
60.11.06   IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   A police officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, a
vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot, highway, or privately-
owned property or area developed as an off-street parking facility to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, and to treat the vehicle as an “abandoned vehicle”
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 321.89 and 321.90 of the Code of Iowa,
under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
   1.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1))
   2.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended upon a
street and is so illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or
obstruction to the normal movement of traffic; or when any vehicle is a
habitual violator under Section
60.11.05; or when any vehicle is and has been in violation of Section
60.10.07 for more than 24 hours and the owner, lessee, or person in charge of
the privately-owned property or facility has posted a sign or signs in a
conspicuous location indicating that parking is prohibited, except to customers
of the business located on the property or serviced by the facility
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1))
   3.   Snow Removal. When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban on
parking during snow removal operations.
   4.   Parked Over 24-Hour Period. When any vehicle is left parked upon a
street for a continuous period of 24 hours or more.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1))
   5.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or
driver of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of
this Code shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and storage,
as well as the fines or fees associated with the impound and any outstanding
parking tickets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1))
CHAPTER 60 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
SUBCHAPTER 60.12
ATVS, UTVS, AND SNOWMOBILES
 
60.12.01 Purpose                  60.12.05 Operation of ATVs and UTVs
60.12.02 Definitions              60.12.06 Negligence
60.12.03 General Regulations      60.12.07 Accident Reports
60.12.04 Operation of Snowmobiles
 
60.12.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles, off-road utility vehicles, and snowmobiles within the City.
60.12.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has a seat
or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural terrain.
“Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was originally issued a
certificate of title and registered for highway use under Chapter 321 of the
Code of Iowa, but which contains design features that enable operation over
natural terrain. An operator of an off-road motorcycle is also subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” or “UTV” means a motorized vehicle, with not
less than four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks,
that has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled
by the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control. “Off-road
utility vehicle” or “UTV” includes the following vehicles:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
      A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 1” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or less.
      B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 2” includes vehicles, other than
Type 1 vehicles, with a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and a width of
65 inches or less.
      C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 3” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width of more than 65 inches, or
both.
   An operator of an UTV is also subject to the provisions of this chapter
governing the operation of ATVs.
   4.   “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle that weighs less than 1,000
pounds, that uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread with a
width of 48 inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or tread, and
is designed for travel on snow or ice. “Snowmobile” does not include an all-
terrain vehicle that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type
tracks, or treads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)
60.12.03   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   No person shall operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle, or off-road utility
vehicle within the City in violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa or a
snowmobile within the City in violation of the provisions of Chapter 321G of
the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules established by the Natural Resource
Commission of the Department of Natural Resources governing their registration,
equipment and manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G and Ch. 321I)
60.12.04   OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
   The operators of snowmobiles shall comply with the following restrictions as
to where snowmobiles may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. Snowmobiles shall be operated only upon streets that have not
been plowed during the snow season and on such other streets as may be
designated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9(4)(a))
   2.   Exceptions. Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only
under the following circumstances:
      A.   Emergencies. Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an
emergency during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the
roadway renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9(4)(c))
      B.   Direct Crossing. Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a
prohibited street provided all of the following occur:
         (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
         (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
         (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
         (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9(2))
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way. A snowmobile may be driven directly across a
railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any
other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.13(1)(h))
   4.   Trails. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle trails
except where so designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9(4)(f))
   5.   Parks and Other City Land. Snowmobiles shall not be operated in any
park, playground, or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City. A snowmobile shall not be operated on any City land
without a snow cover of at least one-tenth of one inch.
   6.   Sidewalk or Parking. Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
60.12.05   OPERATION OF ATVS AND UTVS.
   The operators of ATVs and UTVs shall comply with the following restrictions
as to where ATVs and UTVs may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. ATVs and UTVs may be operated on roadways or highways in
accordance with Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa. A City may regulate the
operation of registered ATVs and UTVs and may designate streets under the
jurisdiction of the City within its corporate limits, and two-lane primary and
secondary road extensions in the City, which may be used for the operation of
such vehicles. In designating such streets, the City may authorize ATVs and
UTVs to stop at service stations or convenience stores along a designated
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10(1 and 3))
   2.   Trails. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated on snowmobile trails except
where designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10(4))
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way. An ATV or UTV may be driven directly across a
railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any
other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.14(1)(h))
   4.   Parks and Other City Land. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated in any
park, playground, or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City.
   5.   Sidewalk or Parking. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated upon the
public sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and
the sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking.”
   6.   Direct Crossing. An ATV or UTV may make a direct crossing of a highway
that is not part of the interstate road system provided all of the following
occur:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10(5))
      A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing.
      B.   The ATV or UTV is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway.
      C.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
      D.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
      E.   The crossing is made from a street, roadway, or highway on which the
ATV or UTV is authorized to operate to a street, roadway, or highway on which
such vehicle is authorized to operate.
60.12.06   NEGLIGENCE.
   The owner and operator of an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile are liable for any
injury or damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the ATV, UTV, or
snowmobile. The owner of an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile shall be liable for any
such injury or damage only if the owner was the operator of the ATV, UTV, or
snowmobile at the time the injury or damage occurred or if the operator had the
owner’s consent to operate the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile at the time the injury
or damage occurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 and 321I.19)
60.12.07   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   Whenever an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in
injury or death to anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more,
either the operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify
a law enforcement officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with
State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 and 321I.11)
CHAPTER 60 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
SUBCHAPTER 60.13
BICYCLE REGULATIONS
60.13.01 Scope of Regulations             60.13.10 Control
60.13.02 Traffic Code Applies             60.13.11 Operation on Sidewalks
60.13.03 Obedience to Signals             60.13.12 Towing
60.13.04 Double Riding Restricted; Riding 60.13.13 Improper Riding
on Handlebars Prohibited
60.13.05 Place of Riding; Two Abreast     60.13.14 Parking
Limit
60.13.06 Bicycle Paths; Nondiscrimination 60.13.15 Equipment Requirements
on the Basis of Disability
60.13.07 Speed and Reckless Operation     60.13.16 Alteration of Serial Frame
                                          Number
60.13.08 Emerging from Alley or Driveway  60.13.17 Sirens or Whistles
60.13.09 Carrying Articles                60.13.18 Prohibited Operation -
                                          Interstate Highway 235
                                          60.13.19 Following Emergency Vehicles
 
60.13.01   SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street
or upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated herein. The following terms are defined as used in this
subchapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(10))
   1.   “Bicycle” means either of the following:
      A.   A device having up to four wheels and having at least one saddle
or   seat for the use of a rider and which is propelled by human power.
      B.   A device having up to four wheels with fully operable pedals and
an   electric motor of one horsepower or less.
   2.   “Multi-use trail” means a way or place, the use of which is controlled
by the City as an owner of real property, designated by the multi-use
recreational trail maps, as approved by resolution by the Council, and no
multi-use trail shall be considered as a street or highway.
   3.   “Other power-driven mobility device” means any mobility device powered
by batteries, fuel, or other engines, whether or not designed primarily for use
by individuals with mobility disabilities, which is used by individuals with
mobility disabilities for the purpose of locomotion, including golf carts,
electronic personal assistance mobility devices (EPAMDs), such as the Segway
PT, or any mobility device designed to operate in areas without defined
pedestrian routes, but which is not a wheelchair within the meaning of this
section. This definition does not apply to federal wilderness areas;
wheelchairs in such areas are defined in Section 508(c)(2) of the ADA, 42
U.S.C. 12207(c)(2).
   4.   “Wheelchair” means a manually operated or power-driven device designed
primarily for use by an individual with a mobility disability for the main
purpose of indoor or of both indoor and outdoor locomotion. This definition
does not apply to federal wilderness areas; wheelchairs in such areas are
defined in Section 508(c)(2) of the ADA, 42 U.S.C. 12207(c)(2).
60.13.02   TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the Traffic Code of the City applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to those provisions which by their nature can have no
application.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)
60.13.03   OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the directions of traffic control
signs, signals, and devices applicable to other vehicles unless otherwise
directed by a police officer and shall obey direction signs relative to turns
permitted unless such person dismounts from the bicycle, in which case he or
she shall then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians.
60.13.04   DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED; RIDING ON HANDLEBARS PROHIBITED.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped. It
is unlawful for the operator of any bicycle (or of any motorcycle not equipped
with a side car or built to transport two persons), when upon any public
street, to carry any other person upon the handlebars, frame, or other part
thereof, or for any other person to so ride on such vehicle. This section does
not apply to the use of a bicycle in a parade or special event authorized by
the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234(3 and 4))
60.13.05   PLACE OF RIDING; TWO ABREAST LIMIT.
   1.   Any person operating a bicycle upon a roadway at a speed less than the
normal speed of traffic moving in the same direction shall ride as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except under any of
the following situations:
      A.   When overtaking and passing another bicycle vehicle proceeding in
the same direction.
      B.   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway.
      C.   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions, including, but not
limited to, fixed or moving objects, vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians, animals,
surface hazards, or substandard width lanes, which make it unsafe to continue
along the right-hand curb or edge. For purposes of this section, a “substandard
width lane” is a lane that is too narrow for a bicycle and a vehicle to travel
safely side by side within the lane.
      D.   A facility that would allow bicycle traffic on the left side of the
roadway.
   2.   Any person operating a bicycle upon a roadway which carries traffic in
one direction only and has two or more marked traffic lanes, may ride as near
the left-hand curb or edge of such roadway as practicable.
   3.   When riding upon any multi-use trail with other cyclists, there shall
not be more than two abreast.
   4.   This section does not apply to the use of a bicycle in a parade or
special event authorized by the City.
60.13.06   BICYCLE PATHS; NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY.
   The City shall permit individuals with mobility disabilities to use
wheelchairs and manually powered mobility aids, such as walkers, crutches,
canes, braces, or other similar devices designed for use by individuals with
mobility disabilities in any area open to pedestrian use, including bicycle
paths. The City shall also permit the use of other power-driven mobility
devices by individuals with mobility disabilities, unless it is demonstrated
that the class of power-driven mobility devices cannot be operated in
accordance with legitimate safety requirements that the City has adopted in
accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act Part 35.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(10))
60.13.07   SPEED AND RECKLESS OPERATION.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing, and no person shall operate a
bicycle in such a manner as to constitute a willful and wanton disregard for
the safety of persons or property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(10))
60.13.08   EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said
sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(10))
60.13.09   CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(10))
60.13.10   CONTROL.
   The operator of a bicycle upon a street or public way shall keep the same
under control at all times and at all times during operation shall have one or
both hands upon the handlebars and the feet engaged with the braking device if
the braking device is designed to be actuated by the feet.
60.13.11   OPERATION ON SIDEWALKS.
   Bicycles may be operated upon the public sidewalks in a careful and prudent
manner, except where signs are erected to prohibit riding on the sidewalk, and
at a rate of speed not exceeding eight MPH.
   Every person lawfully operating a bicycle upon a public sidewalk, when
approaching a pedestrian or a vehicle occupied by a child under the age of 16
years, shall either dismount or give a clear right-of-way to the full extent of
such sidewalk to such pedestrian or child and, in overtaking such pedestrian or
child, shall give an audible signal before passing.
60.13.12   TOWING.
   It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any
other vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured
for such use.
60.13.13   IMPROPER RIDING.
   No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.
60.13.14   PARKING.
   No person shall leave a bicycle lying on its side on any sidewalk or park a
bicycle on a sidewalk in any other position, so that there is not an adequate
path for pedestrian traffic. Local authorities may, by ordinance or resolution,
prohibit bicycle parking in designated areas of the public highway, provided
that appropriate signs are erected.
60.13.15   EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Every person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:
   1.   Lamps and Reflectors. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a lamp on
the front exhibiting a white light, when used on the public ways of the City at
any time from sunset to sunrise, and at any other time when there is not
sufficient light to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the
street at a distance of 500 feet ahead. Such light shall be visible from a
distance of at least 300 feet to the front. Such bicycle when so used shall
display a lamp on the rear exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of
300 feet to the rear, except that in lieu thereof may be used a red reflector
mounted not less than 24 inches or more than 42 inches above the ground, which
shall be visible at night from all distances within 500 feet to 50 feet from
the bicycle when directly in front of a motor vehicle displaying lawfully lit
headlamps.
   2.   Brakes. Each bicycle used upon the public ways of the City shall be
equipped with a brake which will enable the operator to make the braked wheel
skid on a dry, level pavement and which may be applied and bring the bicycle to
a stop without the brake locking the braked wheel.
   3.   Equivalent equipment such as headlamps and red-light attachments to the
arm or leg may be used in lieu of a lamp on the front and a red light on the
rear of the bicycle.
   4.   A police officer riding a police bicycle is not required to use either
front or rear lamps if duty so requires.
60.13.16   ALTERATION OF SERIAL FRAME NUMBER.
   It is unlawful for any person willfully or maliciously to remove, destroy,
mutilate, or alter the manufacturer’s serial frame number of any bicycle.
60.13.17   SIRENS OR WHISTLES.
   No bicycle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle
any siren or whistle. This section does not apply to bicycles ridden by peace
officers in the line of duty.
60.13.18   PROHIBITED OPERATION - INTERSTATE HIGHWAY 235.
   No person shall ride, park, or stop any bicycle within any fenced portion of
the right-of-way of Interstate Highway 235.
60.13.19   FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   No person riding a bicycle shall follow closer than 500 feet to an emergency
vehicle, as defined by Section 321.1 of the Code of Iowa, which has emergency
lights or siren activated, and shall not stop, park, or leave a bicycle within
500 feet of an emergency vehicle stopped in response to an emergency.
CHAPTER 60 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
SUBCHAPTER 60.14
OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON CITY STREETS
 
60.14.01 Purpose                           60.14.07 Equipment
60.14.02 Definition                        60.14.08 Hours of Operation
60.14.03 Operation of Golf Carts Permitted 60.14.09 Speed
60.14.04 Traffic Code Applies              60.14.10 Parking
60.14.05 Prohibited Areas                  60.14.11 Penalty
60.14.06 Unlawful Operations
 
60.14.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to permit the operation of golf carts on
streets in the City as authorized by Section 321.247 of the Code of Iowa, as
amended. This chapter applies whenever a golf cart is operated on any street,
alley, or other public ways of the City.
60.14.02   DEFINITION.
   “Golf cart” means a four-wheeled recreational vehicle generally used for
transportation of persons in the sport of golf that is either electric-powered
or gas-powered with an engine displacement of less than 351 cubic centimeters
and a total dry weight of less than 800 pounds.
60.14.03   OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS PERMITTED.
   Golf carts may only be operated upon the streets with the approval of the
Mayor or Police Chief for authorized functions, special events, or official
City business by persons possessing a valid operator’s license, and at least 18
years of age, except as prohibited in Section 60.14.05.
60.14.04   TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
   Every person operating a golf cart upon a street or alley shall be granted
all of the rights and privileges and shall be subject to all the duties and
obligations applicable to the driver of a vehicle and to the laws of the State
declaring the rules of the road applicable to the driver of the vehicle, except
as to those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
60.14.05   PROHIBITED AREAS.
   1.   Streets. Golf carts shall not be operated upon any City streets with a
posted speed limit of greater than 25 MPH or any City streets or parts of any
City streets listed below:
      A.   63 rd Street.
      B.   70 th Street.
      C.   73 rd Street.
      D.   However, golf carts may cross the aforementioned streets.
      E.   Golf carts may be operated on closed or controlled streets for
approved City special events, parades, and other official City business.
   2.   Trails. Golf carts shall not be operated on any recreational, bike, or
walking trail.
   3.   Sidewalks. Golf carts shall not be operated on sidewalks unless
authorized for an approved function, special event, or official City business.
   4.   City Parks and Other Land Owned by the City. Golf carts shall not be
operated in City parks or upon other City-owned land unless for an approved
function, special event, or official City business.
   5.   Special Exemptions. The Mayor or Police Chief is authorized to permit
golf carts to operate on restricted City streets as authorized by State law or
this Code.
60.14.06   UNLAWFUL OPERATIONS.
   1.   No golf cart shall be operated while under the influence of alcoholic
beverages, narcotics, or habit-forming drugs.
   2.   No person shall operate a golf cart in a careless, reckless, or
negligent manner endangering the person or property of another or causing
injury or damage to same.
   3.   No golf cart shall carry more passengers than the golf cart is designed
for.
60.14.07   EQUIPMENT.
   Golf carts operated upon City streets shall be equipped with a minimum of
the following safety features:
   1.   A slow-moving vehicle sign.
   2.   A bicycle safety flag, the bottom of which shall be above the top of
the golf cart.
   3.   Adequate brakes.
   4.   Rear view mirror - driver’s side.
60.14.08   HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts may be operated on City streets, alleys, and other public ways
only between sunrise and sunset.
60.14.09   SPEED.
   No golf cart shall be operated on any City street at a speed in excess of 20
MPH.
60.14.10   PARKING.
   Golf carts shall park in areas open for parking. Golf carts shall not be
parked overnight on City streets, alleys, parks, or other public ways, unless
approved by the Police Chief or designee.
60.14.11   PENALTY.
   A person who violates this chapter is guilty of a simple misdemeanor
punishable as a scheduled violation under the Code of Iowa as shown below.
   1.   First Offense - $75.00.
   2.   Second Offense and Subsequent - $100.00.
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
 
90.01 Definitions                   90.06 Collections and Liens
90.02 Mandatory Connections         90.07 Compliance with Plumbing Code
90.03 Water Service Provided by Des 90.08 Plumber Required
Moines Water Works
90.04 Permits                       90.09 Failure to Maintain
90.05 Fees and Charges              90.10 Completion by the City
                                    90.11 Operation of Curb Valve and Hydrants
 
90.01   DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code
pertaining to the Water Service System:
   1.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water service
from the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties
the duties, responsibilities, liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed
shall be joint and several.
   2.   “Des Moines Water Works” means the City water utility organized under
Chapter 388 of the Code of Iowa, which is officially known as the Board of
Water Works Trustees of the City of Des Moines, Iowa.
   3.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the water main to the building
served.
   4.   “Water system” means all public facilities for securing, collecting,
storing, pumping, treating, and distributing water.
90.02   MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.
   All residences and business establishments within the City limits intended
or used for human habitation, occupancy, or use shall be connected to the
public water system, if it is reasonably available and if the building is not
furnished with pure and wholesome water from some other source.
90.03   WATER SERVICE PROVIDED BY DES MOINES WATER WORKS.
   Water service to all customers, within and without the City, that are
connected to the water system of the City shall be provided by the Des Moines
Water Works, pursuant to the terms of a Chapter 28E Agreement between the City
and the Des Moines Water Works. All such services shall be provided directly by
Des Moines Water Works as the water service provider to customers and shall be
pursuant to the rates, fees, rules, and regulations established by the Des
Moines Water Works from time to time.
90.04   PERMITS.
   Before any person makes a connection with the public water system, a written
permit must be obtained from the Des Moines Water Works as provided in its
rules and regulations.
90.05   FEES AND CHARGES.
   Fees and charges for permits, taps, connections, and all other services,
including system development fees, shall be established by, collected by, and
subject to the policies and procedures of the Des Moines Water Works.
90.06   COLLECTIONS AND LIENS.
   The Des Moines Water Works shall have, and may exercise, all authority for
collection of water rates and charges granted by law, including discontinuing
service and imposition of liens as provided by law.
90.07   COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
   The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural, or enforcement provisions, of the Plumbing Code of the
City and the laws of the State.
90.08   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
   All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber, except that Des Moines Water Works
shall be allowed to make routine service line repairs in connection with water
main repairs.
90.09   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
   When any portion of the water service pipe, which is the responsibility of
the property owner, becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails
to correct such nuisance, the Des Moines Water Works may do so, and the City
may assess the costs thereof to the property.
90.10   COMPLETION BY THE CITY.
   Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for 24 hours
after the water service pipe is installed and connected with the water system,
or should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the right to finish
or correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs to the property
owner or the plumber. If the plumber is assessed, the plumber must pay the
costs before receiving another permit, and the plumber’s bond or cash deposit
shall be security for the assessment. If the property owner is assessed, such
assessment may be collected with, and in the same manner as, general property
taxes.
90.11   OPERATION OF CURB VALVE AND HYDRANTS.
   It is unlawful for any person, except the Des Moines Water Works or
authorized City personnel, to turn water on at the curb valve, and no person,
unless specifically authorized by the City or the Des Moines Water Works, shall
open or attempt to draw water from any fire hydrant for any purpose whatsoever.
CHAPTER 91
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
 
91.01 Definitions                                                       91.07 Required Backflow Prevention Assemblies for Containment – Fire
                                                                        Protection Systems
91.02 Administrative Authority                                          91.08 Backflow Prevention Assembly Technicians
91.03 New Water Services                                                91.09 Installation of Backflow Prevention Assemblies
91.04 Existing Water Services                                           91.10 Testing of Backflow Prevention Assemblies
91.05 Customer Responsibilities                                         91.11 Repair of Backflow Prevention Assemblies
91.06 Required Backflow Prevention Assemblies for Containment – Water 91.12 Customer Noncompliance
Services
 
91.01   DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply only to this chapter. For the purpose of
this chapter, these definitions supersede definitions given elsewhere in this
Code.
   1.   “Administrative authority” means Des Moines Water Works and the City.
   2.   “Approved backflow prevention assembly for containment” means a
backflow prevention assembly which is listed by the University of Southern
California Foundation for Cross Connection Control and Hydraulic Research as
having met the requirements of ANSI-AWWA Standard C510-97, Double Check Valve
Backflow Prevention Assemblies, of ANSI-AWWA Standard C511-97, Reduced Pressure
Principle Backflow Prevention Assemblies, for containment. The listing shall
include the limitations of use based on the degree of hazard. The backflow
prevention assembly must also be listed by the International Association of
Plumbing and Mechanical Officials.
   3.   “Approved backflow prevention assembly for containment in a fire
protection system” means a backflow prevention assembly to be used in a fire
protection system which meets the requirements of Factory Mutual Research
Corporation (FM) and Underwriters Laboratory (UL), and the requirements of the
Fire Code and the Building Code of the City, in addition to the requirements of
Section
91.07. Devices sized smaller than two and one-half inches which have not been
listed by Underwriters Laboratory (UL) and tested by Factory Mutual Research
Corporation (FM) may be allowed if they meet the requirements of the Fire Code
and the Building Code.
   4.   “Auxiliary water supply” means any water supply on or available to the
premises other than City or its designee’s approved public water supply, such
as, but not limited to, a private well, pond, or river.
   5.   “Containment” means a method of backflow prevention which requires the
installation of a backflow prevention assembly at the water service entrance.
   6.   “Cross connection” means any actual or potential connection or
arrangement, physical or otherwise, between a potable water supply system and
any plumbing fixture or tank, receptacle, equipment, or device, through which
it may be possible for non-potable, used, unclean, polluted, and contaminated
water or other substance to enter into any part of such potable water system
under any condition.
   7.   “Customer” means the owner, operator, or occupant of a building or
property which has a water service from a public water system, or the owner or
operator of a private water system which has a water service from a public
water system.
   8.   “Degree of hazard” means the rating given by the administrative
authority of a cross connection or water service which indicates its potential
to cause contamination or pollution of the public water supply.
   9.   “Double check valve backflow prevention assembly” means a backflow
prevention device consisting of two independently acting internally loaded
check valves, four properly located test cocks, and two isolation valves.
   10.   “High hazard cross connection” means a cross connection which may
cause an impairment of the quality of the public potable water supply by
creating an actual hazard to public health, through poisoning or through the
spread of disease by sewage, industrial fluids, or waste.
   11.   “Isolation” means a method of backflow prevention in which a backflow
prevention assembly is located at the cross connection rather than at the water
service entrance.
   12.   “Low hazard cross connection” means a cross connection which may cause
an impairment of the quality of the public potable water supply to a degree
which does not create a hazard to public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect the aesthetic qualities of such potable waters for domestic
use.
   13.   “Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly” means a
backflow prevention device consisting of two independently acting internally
loaded check valves, a pressure relief valve, four properly located test cocks,
and two isolation valves.
   14.   “Registered backflow prevention assembly technician” means a person
who is registered by the State to test and repair backflow prevention
assemblies and report on the condition of those assemblies.
   15.   “Thermal expansion” means volumetric increase of water due to heating
resulting in increased pressure in a closed system.
   16.   “Water service” means, depending on the context, the physical
connection between a public water system and a customer’s building, property,
or private water system, or the act of providing potable water to a customer.
   17.   “Public water supplier,” for the purpose of this section, means the
entity providing public water for human consumption through pipes or other
constructed conveyances to at least 15 service connections or serving an
average of at least 25 people for at least 60 days a year.
91.02   ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY.
   1.   The City or Des Moines Water Works shall have the right to enter, with
the consent of the customer or upon the basis of a suitable warrant issued by a
court of appropriate jurisdiction, any property to inspect for possible cross
connections.
   2.   Des Moines Water Works shall maintain records of cross connection
hazard surveys, and the installation, testing, and repair of all backflow
prevention assemblies installed for containment purposes.
91.03   NEW WATER SERVICES.
   1.   Plans shall be submitted to Des Moines Water Works for review on all
new water services to determine the degree of hazard.
   2.   Des Moines Water Works shall determine the type of backflow prevention
assembly required for containment based on the degree of hazard.
   3.   The Des Moines Water Works shall inspect the installation of the
required backflow prevention assembly for containment before the initiation of
water service.
91.04   EXISTING WATER SERVICES.
   1.   Upgrades of existing water services shall be treated as new water
services for the purpose of this section.
   2.   Customers whose premises are not classified as single-family
residential shall complete and return a “Water Usage Inventory” to Des Moines
Water Works to be used to determine the degree of hazard of the facility.
   3.   Des Moines Water Works shall, on the basis of information received from
the Water Usage Inventory or gathered through on-site investigations or
surveys, determine the degree of hazard and type of backflow prevention
assembly required for containment.
   4.   Within the time frame specified in writing by Des Moines Water Works,
the customer shall install a backflow prevention assembly for containment.
   5.   For existing water services, Des Moines Water Works may inspect the
premises to determine the degree of hazard. When high hazard cross connections
are present, Des Moines Water Works shall assign a deadline for the
installation of a backflow prevention assembly for containment.
   6.   Failure of the customer to install a backflow prevention assembly by
the deadline as required will result in termination of the water service until
the installation is complete.
   7.   Failure of Des Moines Water Works to notify a customer that a high
hazard cross connection exists and that a backflow prevention assembly for
containment must be installed in no way relieves a customer of the
responsibility to comply with all requirements of this section.
91.05   CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   1.   The customer shall be responsible for ensuring that no cross
connections exist without approved backflow protection within their premises,
starting at the point of service from the public potable water system.
   2.   The customer shall, at their own expense, cause installation,
operation, testing, and maintenance of backflow prevention assemblies.
   3.   The customer shall ensure that copies of records of the installation
and of all tests and repairs made to all backflow prevention assemblies be
submitted to the Des Moines Water Works on the approved form within 15 days
after testing or repairs are completed.
   4.   In the event of a backflow incident, the customer shall immediately
notify Des Moines Water Works of the incident, and the Des Moines Water Works
will recommend steps to confine the contamination or pollution.
91.06   REQUIRED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES FOR CONTAINMENT – WATER
SERVICES.
   1.   An air gap or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly is required for water services having one or more cross
connections which the administrative authority has classified as high hazard.
   2.   An approved double check valve assembly is required for water services
having no high hazard cross connections but having one or more cross
connections which Des Moines Water Works has classified as low hazard.
91.07   REQUIRED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES FOR CONTAINMENT – FIRE
PROTECTION SYSTEMS.
   1.   A reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be
installed on all new and existing fire protection systems, which are determined
to have any one of the following:
      A.   Direct connections from public water mains with an auxiliary water
supply on or available to the premises for pumper connection.
      B.   Interconnections with auxiliary supplies such as reservoirs, rivers,
ponds, wells, mills, or other industrial water systems.
      C.   Use of antifreezes or other additives in the fire protection system.
      D.   Combined industrial and fire protection systems supplied from public
water mains only, with or without gravity storage or pump suction tanks.
      E.   Any other facility, connection, or condition, which may cause
contamination.
   2.   A double check valve assembly will be required for all other fire
protection systems. The double check valve assembly shall be required on all
new systems at the time of installation and on existing systems at the time
that they are upgraded.
   3.   Submittal of proposed backflow prevention devices to Des Moines Water
Works does not relieve the designer or the sprinkler contractor of the
responsibility of submitting plans, including backflow prevention devices to
the City for approval.
91.08   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY TECHNICIANS.
   1.   A backflow prevention assembly technician registered by the State shall
include their registration number on all correspondence and forms required by
or associated with this chapter.
   2.   Noncompliance with any of the following by a registered technician
shall be grounds for reporting said individual to the State Health Department.
      A.   Improper testing or repair of backflow prevention assemblies.
      B.   Improper reporting of the results of testing or of repairs made to
backflow prevention assemblies.
      C.   Failure to meet registration requirements.
      D.   Related unethical practices.
91.09   INSTALLATION OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES.
   1.   The required backflow prevention assemblies for containment shall be
installed in horizontal plumbing immediately following the meter or as close to
that location as deemed practical by Water Works. In any case, it shall be
located upstream from any branch piping. Installation at this point does not
eliminate the responsibility of the customer to protect the water supply system
from contamination or pollution between the backflow prevention assembly and
the water main.
   2.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
installed so as to be protected from flooding.
   3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall not be
installed in underground vaults or pits.
   4.   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be protected from freezing.
Those devices used for seasonal water services may be removed in lieu of being
protected from freezing; however, the devices must be reinstalled and tested by
a registered backflow prevention technician prior to service being reactivated.
   5.   If hot water is used within the water system, thermal expansion shall
be provided for when installing a backflow prevention assembly for containment.
   6.   Provisions shall be made to convey the discharge of water from reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies to a suitable drain.
   7.   No backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in a place where
it would create a safety hazard, such as, but not limited to, an electrical
panel, or above ceiling level.
   8.   If interruption of water service during testing and repair of backflow
prevention assemblies for containment is unacceptable, another backflow
prevention assembly, sized to handle the temporary water flow needed during the
time of test or repair, should be installed in parallel piping.
   9.   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed so that they are
accessible for testing.
   10.   All shut-off valves shall conform to the current edition of the Manual
of Cross Connection Control (University of Southern California) requirements
for either ball or resilient seat gate valves at the time of installation. Ball
valves shall be used on assemblies installed in piping two inches and smaller
and resilient seat gate valves on assemblies installed in piping larger than
two inches.
   11.   Location and protection of the containment assembly shall be approved
by Des Moines Water Works prior to installation.
91.10   TESTING OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES.
   Testing of backflow prevention assemblies shall be performed by a registered
backflow prevention assembly technician. The costs of tests required in the
following subsections shall be borne by the customer.
   1.   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested upon installation and
tested and inspected at least annually.
   2.   Backflow prevention assemblies, which are in place, but have been out
of operation for more than three months, shall be tested before being put back
into operation. Backflow prevention assemblies used in seasonal applications
shall be tested before being put into operation each season.
   3.   Any backflow prevention assembly which fails a periodic test shall be
repaired or replaced. When water service has been terminated for noncompliance,
the backflow prevention assembly shall be repaired or replaced prior to the
resumption of water service. Backflow prevention assemblies shall be retested
by a registered backflow prevention assembly technician immediately after
repair or replacement.
   4.   Des Moines Water Works may require backflow prevention assemblies to be
tested at any time in addition to the annual testing requirement.
   5.   The registered backflow prevention assembly technician shall report the
successful test of a backflow prevention assembly to the customer and to Des
Moines Water Works within 15 days of the test.
   Des Moines Water Works may require, at the owner’s expense, additional tests
of individual backflow prevention assemblies as it shall deem necessary to
verify test procedures and results.
91.11   REPAIR OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES.
   1.   All repairs to backflow prevention assemblies shall be performed by
registered backflow prevention assembly technicians.
   2.   The registered backflow prevention assembly technician shall not change
the design, material, or operational characteristics of a backflow prevention
assembly during repair or maintenance and shall use only original manufacturer
replacement parts.
   3.   The registered backflow prevention assembly technician shall report the
repair of a backflow prevention assembly to the customer and to the Des Moines
Water Works within 15 days of the repair. The report shall include the list of
materials or replacement parts used.
   4.   Any time fire services are discontinued for a period of time longer
than necessary to test the device; the tester is required to notify the Fire
Marshal’s office that the fire service is shut off for repair.
91.12   CUSTOMER NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The water service may be discontinued in the case of noncompliance with this
section. Noncompliance includes, but is not limited to, the following:
   1.   Refusal to allow Des Moines Water Works access to the property to
inspect for cross connections.
   2.   Removal of a backflow prevention assembly, which has been required by
Des Moines Water Works or the City.
   3.   Bypassing of a backflow prevention assembly which has been required by
Des Moines Water Works or the City.
   4.   Providing inadequate backflow protection when cross connections exist.
   5.   Failure to install a backflow prevention assembly, which has been
required by Des Moines Water Works or the City.
   6.   Failure to test or properly repair a backflow prevention assembly as
required by Des Moines Water Works or the City.
   7.   Failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
 
95.01 Purpose                   95.07 Right of Entry
95.02 Definitions               95.08 Use of Easements
95.03 Superintendent            95.09 Special Penalties
95.04 Prohibited Acts           95.10 Abandoned Sewer Lines
95.05 Sewer Connection Required 95.11 Access to Premises
95.06 Service Outside the City  95.12 Fees and Charges
 
95.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the chapters of this Code pertaining to Sanitary Sewers is to
establish rules and regulations governing the treatment and disposal of
sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public health, safety,
and welfare.
95.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of
oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20?, expressed in milligrams per liter or
parts per million.
   2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
   3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
   4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and
sewage.
   5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial, or industrial waste that is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
   6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage,
and sale of produce.
   7.   “Industrial wastes” means solid, liquid, or gaseous substances from any
industrial, manufacturing, commercial, or business establishment, or process,
or from the development, recovery, or processing of any natural resource which
any person discharges or allows to be discharged into the public sewer, but
does not include any wastes from a building used exclusively for residential
purposes which contains eight dwelling or rooming units or less.
   8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect
and approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the
public sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
   9.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch,
lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   10.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of 15 persons (1,500 gpd) or less.
   11.   “Parts per million” (PPM) means a weight-to-weight ratio; the parts-
per-million value multiplied by the factor 8.345 is equivalent to pounds per
million gallons of water, and for the purposes of these Sanitary Sewer
chapters, it means the same as milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   12.   “Paunch manure” means any material found in the stomachs or paunches
of livestock
   13.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen
ions in grams per liter of solution.
   14.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting
properties have equal rights and is controlled by public authority.
   15.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and
industrial waste.
   16.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that conveys sewage or industrial
wastes or a combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and
groundwaters or unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   17.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
   18.   “Sewage treatment plant” means the arrangement of devices and
structures and equipment of the City of Des Moines for treating sewage and
industrial wastes.
   19.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
   20.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage or any other
wastes liquids, including storm, surface, and groundwater drainage.
   21.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees
levied against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of
said customers by said sewer system.
   22.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste that
in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for
any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average
24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   23.   “Standard methods” means the examination and analytical procedures set
forth in the most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water, Sewage, and Industrial Wastes, published jointly by the American Public
Health Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water
Pollution Control Federation.
   24.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer that carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   25.   “Stormwater runoff” means that portion of rainfall that is drained
into the sewers.
   26.   “Superintendent” means the Public Works Director of the City or any
authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   27.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of,
or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and that are removable
by laboratory filtering.
   28.   “Unpolluted water or liquids” means any water or liquid containing
none of the following: free or emulsified grease or oil; substances that may
impart taste-and-odor or color characteristics; volatile, explosive, toxic, or
poisonous substances in suspension, colloidal state, or solution; explosive,
odorous, or otherwise obnoxious gases. Such water or liquids shall not contain
more than 25 mg/l of suspended solids, and not more than 25 mg/l of B.O.D.
   29.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03   SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Superintendent shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
   1.   Operation and Maintenance. Operate and maintain the City sewage system.
   2.   Inspection and Tests. Conduct necessary inspections and tests to assure
compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
   3.   Records. Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers, sewage
connections, and manholes constructed showing the location and grades thereof.
95.04   PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall do, or allow any of the following:
   1.   Damage Sewer System. Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment that is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
   2.   Surface Run-Off or Groundwater. Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   3.   Manholes. Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Superintendent.
   4.   Objectionable Wastes. Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the City, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.
   5.   Septic Tanks. Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage
except as provided in these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(f))
   6.   Untreated Discharge. Discharge to any natural outlet within the City,
or in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes,
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(f))
95.05   SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are hereby required
to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet facilities therein and a
building sewer connecting such facilities directly with the proper public
sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with the provisions of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be completed within 60 days after
date of official notice from the City to do so provided that said public sewer
is located within 200 feet of the property line of such owner and is of such
design as to receive and convey by gravity such sewage as may be conveyed to
it. Billing for sanitary sewer service will begin the date of official notice
to connect to the public sewer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(f))
(567 IAC 69.1(3))
95.06   SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public sewer upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4(2 and 3))
95.07   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
The Superintendent or representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
95.08   USE OF EASEMENTS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.09   SPECIAL PENALTIES.
   The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters:
   1.   Notice of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except Subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section
95.04, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   2.   Continuing Violations. Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in Subsection 1 of this section shall be in
violation of this Code. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   3.   Liability Imposed. Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation.
95.10   ABANDONED SEWER LINES.  
   When an existing sanitary sewer service is abandoned or a service is renewed
with a new connection in the main, all abandoned connections shall be
terminated and made watertight at the main unless otherwise directed by the
Superintendent.
95.11   ACCESS TO PREMISES.  
   The City shall be entitled access to the premises of any customer for the
purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing at any
reasonable time and to such extent as may be necessary to carry out the
provisions of these chapters, and it shall be deemed a part of the agreement on
the part of the customer, as a condition to permission to connect with the
public sewer, that such access be granted.
95.12   FEES AND CHARGES.  
   Fees and charges for all sewer services shall be established by the
Urbandale and Windsor Heights Sanitary Sewer District and shall be collected by
the Des Moines Water Works.
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
 
96.01 Permit; Fees            96.06 Inspection Required
96.02 Plumber Required        96.07 Property Owner’s Responsibility
96.03 Excavations             96.08 Abatement of Violations
96.04 Connection Requirements 96.09 Sewer Lateral Repair or Replacement
96.05 Sewer Tap
 
96.01   PERMIT; FEES.  
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the City. The person who makes the
building sewer connection application shall pay a permit fee to the Clerk to
cover the cost of issuing the permit and supervising, regulating, and
inspecting the work. All permit fees under this chapter shall be outlined in
the Fee Schedule.
96.02   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
   All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber.
96.03   EXCAVATIONS.
   All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required for the installation
of a building sewer shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the
State Plumbing Code and the provisions of Chapter 135.
96.04   CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Any connection with a public sanitary sewer must be made under the direct
supervision of the Superintendent and in accordance with the current edition of
SUDAS as adopted by the City in
Chapter 157.
96.05   SEWER TAP.
   Connection of the building sewer to the public sewer shall comply with the
current edition of SUDAS adopted by the City in
Chapter 157 and in the location specified by the Superintendent.
96.06   INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   No building sewer shall be covered, concealed, or put into use until it has
been tested, inspected, and accepted as prescribed in the International
Plumbing Code.
96.07   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The property
owner is responsible for the “Y,” or any other type of connection or connecting
device, that connects the City sewer to the sewer service lateral. The property
owner is responsible for the delivery of sewage to the sewer main.
96.08   ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   Construction or maintenance of building sewer lines, whether located upon
the private property of any owner or in the public right-of-way, which
construction or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of this
chapter, shall be corrected, at the owner’s expense, within 30 days after the
date of official notice from the Council of such violation. If not made within
such time, the Council shall, in addition to the other penalties herein
provided, have the right to finish and correct the work and assess the cost
thereof to the property owner. Such assessment shall be collected with and in
the same manner as general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3))
96.09   SEWER LATERAL REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT.
   1.   Requirements for Sewer Lateral Repair or Replacement. The
Superintendent shall issue a notice to repair to the property owner when the
sewer lateral has conditions which would result in an unacceptable amount of
inflow or infiltration to enter the sewer system or which would result in an
unacceptable risk of blockages. The Superintendent shall have the sole
discretion to determine when repair or replacement is required due to
unacceptable conditions of a sewer lateral. A sewer lateral shall be considered
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter if inspection verifies all of
the following conditions to the satisfaction of the Superintendent:
      A.   The sewer lateral is free of roots, deposits of fat, oil, and grease
(FOG), or other solids which may impede or obstruct the flow of sewage.
      B.   There are no illicit or illegal connections to the sewer lateral
which would cause inflow, such as roof leaders, sump pumps, or yard drains.
      C.   All joints in the sewer lateral are tight and sound to prevent the
exfiltration of sewage or the infiltration of groundwater.
      D.   The sewer lateral is free of structural defects, cracks, breaks, or
missing portions and the grade is reasonably uniform without major sags or
offsets.
      E.   The sewer lateral is equipped with cleanouts, if required, as
determined by the Superintendent.
      F.   The sewer lateral is constructed of materials that are corrosive
resistant, nonabsorbent, durable, and with a remaining design life of at least
25 years. “Orangeburg pipe,” a bituminized fiber pipe made from layers of wood
pulp and pitch pressed together, shall be considered to be at the end of its
design life and not compliant with the provisions of this chapter.
      G.   A sewer relief valve, if required, is installed.
      H.   A sewer backwater valve, if required, is installed.
   2.   Owners’ Duty to Make Connection. When any street or alley is ordered to
be paved or otherwise permanently improved, it shall be the duty of all owners
of property abutting upon such street or alley upon written notice from the
City to at once make permanent and substantial connections meeting the
conditions listed within this chapter with sewer, along such street or alley at
their own cost and expense. The City shall order such connections made as are
necessary, stating generally the location of the street, and the kind and
character of connections to be made with the kind of materials to be used, and
when the work of making such connections shall be completed.
   3.   Method and Material. The connections made within the street or alley
from the mains to and right-of-way in front of the abutting property, shall be
in accordance with the most current version of the Statewide Urban Design and
Specifications (SUDAS).
   4.   Method. All the connections shall be made in a thorough and substantial
manner under the direction and order of the Superintendent, and in the manner
provided by plans or resolution for making connections therewith, so that
whenever any such paving is once laid it need not be disturbed for the making
of any such connection. No repairs are allowed to be made to “Orangeburg” pipe
without the written permission of the Superintendent. When encountered,
“Orangeburg” pipe is to be replaced in its entirety of the sewer service.
   5.   Notice to Connect. In case any property owner or title holder fails to
make such connections within the time allotted within the provided notice for
the improvements of any such street or alley, the Council may order the same
and cause the Superintendent to prepare notices to such delinquent property
owners to make such connections within 10 days thereafter. The notices shall be
mailed by certified mail to the last known address of the property owner or
personally served on the property owner. The Superintendent may, at their
option, also publish notice in a newspaper in the City stating the particular
lot or lots or parcel of ground in front of which connections shall be made.
The publication shall be made as required by law.
   6.   Completion of Work. The City shall include the connections the property
owners fail to make within the Capital Improvement Project (CIP).
   7.   Connections Made by City. If any owner of abutting property fails to
comply with the provisions of this section, by the time stated in the notice to
connect, the City may proceed to have such connections made under the
supervision and direction of the Superintendent and keep an accurate account of
the expenses incurred.
   8.   Assessment. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total expense
incurred, by certified mail, to the last known address of the property owner
who has failed to abide by the notice to connect. If the amount shown on the
statement is not paid within 30 days of mailing, the cost and expense of
putting in connections by the City, as provided herein shall be levied as a
special tax against the property abutting or adjacent thereto and the method of
estimating, assessing, levying, and collecting the tax shall be the same as
that prescribed for general taxes.
   9.   Excavations After Pavement Laid. Whenever any street or alley has been
ordered to be paved, and property owners owning property abutting or lying
along such street or alley have been notified by the City to connect their
property by laying down pipes within the right-of-way in front of or along the
property, any person so notified who has refused to comply with the
requirements of the notice shall not enter upon such street or alley after it
has been paved and make any excavation in the paved portion thereof for the
purpose of connecting their property with such mains within four years after
such paving is laid and not thereafter except by special resolution of the
Council.
   10.   Permit Requirements. Property owner shall request a permit from the
City. Permit fees are waived for permits related to a CIP.
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
97.01   STORMWATER.
   1.   Prohibited Drainage. Stormwater runoff, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, and sump pump drainage shall not be drained:
      A.   Into sanitary sewers;
      B.   Within 10 feet of the property line or any public right-of-way.
   2.   Disposal of Subsurface Drainage and Stormwater. Where a storm sewer is
not available, the disposition of stormwater and subsurface drainage shall be
as follows:
      A.   For one- and two-family dwellings, to sump and pump to grade or
drywell seepage pit as shown in the illustration of proper disposal of
subsurface drainage and stormwater, on file in the office of the
Superintendent.
      B.   For other than one- and two-family dwellings, to sump and pump to
drywell seepage pit, or use lateral system similar to septic system with
overflow on end.
      C.   Exception to Paragraphs A and B of this subsection, gravity drainage
approved if footing and area drainage elevation is higher than drywell seepage
pit drain discharge flow line.
   3.   Expansion Joints. Expansion joints or sleeves shall be provided where
warranted by temperature variations or physical conditions.
   4.   Subsoil Drainage. No subsoil drainage system shall be installed to
drain into a sewer intended for sanitary sewage.
   5.   Subsoil Drain. Where subsoil drains are placed under the cellar or
basement floor or are used to surround the outer walls of a building, they
shall be installed in accordance with the Building Code and shall be made of
open-jointed, horizontally split or rigid plastic pipe not less than four
inches in diameter. They shall be drained into an open sump with protective
cover. Such sumps need not be vented. The building storm and subsoil drainage
systems shall be connected to a storm sewer when such a sewer abuts the
property. Where a sump pump is used, the discharge piping to the storm sewer,
drywell seepage pit, or lateral system shall be inspected and approved before
use.
   6.   Parking Lot and Retention Pond Drains. Parking lot and retention pond
drains shall be installed as directed by the City Engineer and in accordance
with the approved site plan, a copy of which shall be available on the job
site.
   7.   Connection Required. The City may, at its sole discretion, require that
a property owner connect a sump pump drain to the storm sewer or to a collector
line when provided by the City or a developer when it is within 25 feet of the
property owner’s property.
   8.   Prohibited Acts. No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
      A.   The installation or maintenance of a substandard drainage pipe in a
private drainageway, in a City street right-of-way, in a City maintained
easement area, or in a City stormwater drainage area, resulting in the flooding
of properties adjacent to said drainageway, either upstream or downstream from
said pipe or in said watershed, or resulting in the obstruction or surcharging
of or damage to public drainageways, public storm sewers, sanitary sewers, or
the MS4.
      B.   Failing to accurately maintain or periodically clean a private
drainage pipe installed in a private drainageway, resulting in the flooding of
properties adjacent to said drainageway either upstream or downstream from said
pipe or in said watershed, or resulting in the obstruction or surcharging of or
damage to public drainageways, public storm sewers, sanitary sewers, or the
MS4.
      C.   Failing to adequately maintain or periodically clean a public
drainageway on private property or a private drainageway, resulting in the
flooding of properties adjacent to said drainageway either upstream or
downstream from the inadequately maintained or cleaned portion thereof, or
resulting in the obstruction or surcharging of or damage to public
drainageways, public storm sewers, sanitary sewers, or the MS4.
   9.   Connections Made by City. In the event the property owner fails to
comply with a connection requirement pursuant to this chapter, the City may
proceed to have such connections made under the supervision and direction of
the Superintendent and keep an accurate account of the expenses incurred. The
City Clerk shall send a statement of the total expense incurred, by certified
mail, to the last known address of the property owner who has failed to abide
by the notice to connect. If the amount shown on the statement is not paid
within 30 days of mailing, the cost and expense of putting in connections by
the City as provided herein shall be levied as a special tax against the
property abutting or adjacent thereto and the method of estimating, assessing,
levying, and collecting the tax shall be the same as that prescribed for
general taxes.
   10.   Right of Entry. The Public Works Director and other authorized
employees of the City, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all private properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing all private stormwater
discharges directly or indirectly entering into any public stormwater
management system or facility in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   11.   Abatement. Whenever the City Administrator or other authorized
municipal officer finds that a violation of this chapter has occurred, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section
50.05 or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in Section
50.06.
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01 When Prohibited             98.06 Maintenance of System
98.02 When Required               98.07 Systems Abandoned
98.03 Compliance with Regulations 98.08 Disposal of Septage
98.04 Permit Required             98.09 Septic Systems Required to Switch to
                                  City Sewer
98.05 Discharge Restrictions
 
98.01   WHEN PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(f))
98.02   WHEN REQUIRED.
   When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate, or are employed shall
be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system
complying with the provisions of this chapter. Upon the effective date of this
Code, any person that sells a home which utilizes a private septic system or
on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system must install a building sewer
connecting the property to the public sewer system.
(567 IAC 69.1(3))
98.03   COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
(567 IAC 69.1(3 and 4))
98.04   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and
disposal system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of
Health.
98.05   DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch,
stream, pond, lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the
surface of the ground.
(567 IAC 69.1(3))
98.06   MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
   The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall
operate and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no
expense to the City.
98.07   SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an
on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section 95.05,
a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with these
Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(f))
98.08   DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
   No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
98.09   SEPTIC SYSTEMS REQUIRED TO SWITCH TO CITY SEWER.
   All septic systems used by commercial, home-based business, rental, or
contract sales homes must switch over to the public sewer within one year after
the adoption of this Code. Residential homes must switch over from septic to
City sewer prior to the transfer of title or sale of property. A yearly
inspection of all septic systems by a licensed plumber is required, with a
report to be given to the City for the Building Inspector’s review.
CHAPTER 100
REGULATING OF INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER AND COMMERCIAL WASTEWATER
100.01 Definitions       100.49 Reinstatement of Service
100.02 Abbreviations     100.50 Emergency Disconnection of Service
100.03 General Adoption  100.51 Elimination of Discharge; Reinstatement of Permit
100.04 Intent and        100.52 Additional Remedies
Construction
100.05 Purpose and       100.53 Notices to the WRA, the WRA Board, the WRA Director, or the WRA
Policy                   Steering Committee
100.06 Jurisdiction      100.54 Reserved
100.07 Severability      100.55 Purpose
100.08 Interpretation    100.56 Definitions
100.09 Reserved          100.57 Effective Date of FOG Regulations
100.10 User Requirements 100.58 Grease Interceptor Installation Required and Effective Date
100.11 Discharge         100.59 Exemption from Grease Interceptor Installation Requirements for
Prohibitions             Existing Facilities
100.12 Local Limits for  100.60 Compliance Procedures
Specific Pollutants
100.13 National
Categorical Pretreatment 100.61 Installation of Grease Interceptors and Grease Traps
Standards
100.14 State             100.62 Operation, Maintenance, and Cleaning of Grease Interceptors and
Requirements             Grease Traps and Grease Hauler Certification
100.15 City’s Right of 100.63 Records and Record Keeping
Revision
100.16 Pretreatment      100.64 Inspection of Grease Interceptors and Related Sewers and Equipment
100.17 Dilution          100.65 Trip Charges
Prohibited
100.18 Spill Containment 100.66 Enforcement
100.19 Treatment Upsets  100.67 Notice of Violation – Administrative Penalties - Corrective Action
                         Order
100.20 Treatment Bypass  100.68 Penalties
100.21 Fees              100.69 Order to Cease Operation of FSE
100.22 Reserved          100.70 Appeal of Corrective Action Order or Cease and Desist Order
100.23 Classes of        100.71 Additional Remedies
Permits
100.24 Permit            100.72 Reserved
Requirements
100.25 Permit
Applications; Baseline   100.73 Definitions
Monitoring Reports;
Compliance Issues
100.26 Report on
Compliance by            100.74 License
Categorical Users
100.27 Permit Contents   100.75 Issuance of License; Payment Bond Requirements
100.28 Permit Duration   100.76 Standards for Vehicles and Equipment
and Renewal
100.29 Continuation of   100.77 Disposal
Expired Permits
100.30 Permit            100.78 Identification of Source and Wasteload Approval
Modifications
100.31 Permit Transfer   100.79 Mixing Wastes
100.32 Denial of Permit  100.80 Standards of Disposal at WRF
100.33 Permit Violations 100.81 Rejection of Waste Loads
100.34 Periodic          100.82 Treatment Fees for Hauled Wastes
Compliance Reports
100.35 Certification and 100.83 Enforcement
Signatory Requirements
100.36 Monitoring        100.84 Notice of Violation – Administrative Penalties - Corrective Action
Facilities               Order
100.37 Inspection,
Sampling, and Record     100.85 Penalties
Keeping Authority
100.38 Confidential
Documents, Data, and     100.86 Denial, Suspension, and Revocation of License
Information
100.39 Appeal of Denial  100.87 Alternative Relief
of Confidential Status
100.40 Reserved          100.88 Reserved
100.41 Public
Notification of
Significant
Noncompliance
100.42 Significant
Noncompliance
100.43 Administrative
Actions
100.44 Actions
Authorized
100.45 Civil Penalties
100.46 Performance and
Payment Bonds
100.47 Revocation of
Discharge Permit;
Termination of Sewer
Service
100.48 Reserved
*** DIVISION 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS REGARDING INDUSTRIAL WASTE ***
100.01   DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   1.   “Act” or “Clean Water Act” means the 1972 Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, the 1977 Clean Water Act, and the 1987 Water Quality Act, as
amended.
   2.   “Approval authority” means the Iowa Department of Natural Resources.
   3.   “Authorized representative” means:
      A.   An executive officer of a corporation.
      B.   A general partner of a partnership.
      C.   The proprietor of a proprietorship.
      D.   The conservator, trustee, attorney in fact, receiver, or other
person or agent authorized in law and in fact to act on behalf of users which
are not corporations, partnerships, or proprietorships or on behalf of other
entities which must legally act through an agent.
      E.   Any other authorized representative of a person or entity identified
in Paragraphs (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this definition, if the authorization
specifies either an individual or a position having responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates, such as
the position of plant manager or a position of equivalent responsibility, or
having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company and the
written authorization is submitted to the director.
      F.   Any other person authorized by law to act on behalf of any entity.
   4.   “Baseline monitoring report” means the report required by 40 CFR 403.12
(b)(1-7).
   5.   “Biochemical Oxygen Demand” (BOD) means the analysis of BOD as
described in Environmental Protection Agency methods.
   6.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage
pipes inside the wall of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning three feet outside the building wall.
   7.   “Building sewer” or “lateral sewer” means the sewer extending from the
building drain to the connection with the POTW.
   8.   “Bypass” means the intentional diversion of waste streams from any
portion of an industrial user's pretreatment facility.
   9.   “Carbonaceous Biochemical Oxygen Demand” (CBOD) means the analysis of
BOD as described in Environmental Protection Agency methods while inhibiting
the nitrogenous oxygen demand.
   10.   “Categorical user” means a user subject to National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards.
   11.   “Chemical Oxygen Demand” (COD) means the measurement of the
susceptibility of a sample to oxidation by a strong chemical oxidant expressed
in mg/l and using Environmental Protection Agency methods.
   12.   “City” means the political subdivision known as the City of Windsor
Heights, Iowa, and also means the territory within the corporate boundaries of
the City of Windsor Heights.
   13.   “City sanitary sewer system” or “sanitary sewer system” means the
local outfall sewers, trunk sewers, pumping stations, force mains, and
wastewater equalization basins, and all other structures, devices, and
appliances appurtenant thereto, which are used for collecting, conveying, or
storing wastewater and which serve and are owned, operated, and maintained by
the City or by a sanitary district serving the City.
   14.   “Combined waste stream formula” means the formula as found in 40 CFR
403.6(e).
   15.   “Composite sample” means a representative sample using a minimum of
three grab sample aliquots obtained over a period of time and mixed using
either a flow proportional or time proportional method.
   16.   “Conventional pollutant” means BOD, COD, O and G, suspended solids,
pH, ammonia nitrogen, total Kjeldahl nitrogen, and fecal coliform bacteria.
   17.   “Discharge” or “indirect discharge” means the introduction of treated
or untreated wastewater into the POTW.
   18.   “Dissolved solids” means the concentration of residue left in an
evaporating dish after evaporation and drying at defined temperatures using
Environmental Protection Agency methods or standard methods.
   19.   “Domestic wastewater” means all household-type waste discharged from
places of human habitation, including toilet, bath, kitchen, and laundry
wastewater. “Domestic wastewater” is further defined as waste which does not
exceed daily maximum limits of 300 mg/l COD, 200 mg/l BOD, 250 mg/l suspended
solids, 100 mg/l oil and grease, 30 mg/l TKN, and 15 mg/l NH3-N at a discharge
rate of 100 gallons per capita per day. This loading is equal to 0.25 pounds of
COD, 0.17 pounds of BOD, 0.20 pounds of suspended solids, 0.083 pounds of oil
and grease, 0.025 pounds of TKN, and 0.013 pounds of NH3-N per capita per day.
   20.   “Domestic user” means a person discharging only domestic wastewater to
the POTW, which wastewater is discharged from any building or parts of a
building designed for or occupied by one or more persons as a single
housekeeping unit, including such units within multi-family dwellings and
apartment buildings, which building or premises is a source of wastewater
discharge into a POTW.
   21.   “Environmental Protection Agency” or “EPA” means the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.
   22.   “Environmental Protection Agency methods” means standard procedures
for wastewater analysis approved by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
and prescribed in 40 CFR 136, and includes alternate methods approved by the
approval authority.
   23.   “E. Coli” or “Escherichia coli” means bacteria that are a member of
the fecal coliform group and whose presence indicates fecal contamination in
water.
   24.   “Fecal coliform” means bacteria common to the intestinal tracts of
humans and animals whose presence in water is an indication of pollution.
   25.   “Fat, oil, and grease,” or “oil and grease,” or “FOG” means those
substances which are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in 40 CFR 136, as may be amended from time to time. All are
sometimes referred to herein as “grease” or “greases”.
   26.   “Garbage” means solid waste from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the commercial handling,
storage, and sale of produce.
   27.   “Grab sample” means a single aliquot sample collected either directly
or by means of a mechanical device.
   28.   “Headworks” means the main wet well at the WRF prior to any treatment
process.
   29.   “Industrial user” means a person whose property, building, or premises
is a source of wastewater discharge into the POTW, other than a domestic user.
   30.   “Industrial waste” means the liquid waste from industrial users as
distinct from domestic sewage.
   31.   “Interference” means a discharge which alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, which both:
      A.   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use, or disposal, and
      B.   Causes a violation of any requirement of the WRA’s National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit (including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation) or prevents sewage sludge use or disposal
in compliance with any federal, State, or local regulations or permits.
   32.   “Limit” means the maximum allowable discharge of a given pollutant as
in the following definitions:
      A.   “Daily maximum limit” or “daily instantaneous maximum limit” means
the maximum allowable discharge of pollutant as measured at any time during a
calendar day, expressed as either a concentration limit or a daily mass limit.
It is a violation if the concentration limit on any single sample taken exceeds
that discharge limits in the discharge permit for the user, or the discharge
limits set forth in Section
100.12.
      B.   “Monthly average limit” means the maximum allowable value for the
average of all measurements of a pollutant obtained during one calendar month.
   33.   “National Categorical Pretreatment Standards” (NCPS) or “categorical
standards” means any limitations on pollutant discharges to POTW promulgated by
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency that apply to specified process
wastewater of particular industrial categories.
   34.   “National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit” means
a permit issued pursuant to the Act.
   35.   “New source” means a source as defined by 40 CFR 403.3(k).
   36.   “Nonconventional pollutants” means all pollutants which are not
included in the definition of conventional pollutants.
   37.   “Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User” (NSCIU) is a categorial
user which never discharges more than 100 gallons per day of total categorical
wastewater, as defined in 40 CFR 403.3(v)(2).
   38.   “NH3-N” means the ammonia nitrogen concentration in mg/l as determined
using Environmental Protection Agency methods.
   39.   “O and M” means operation and maintenance.
   40.   “Pass through” means a discharge which exits the POTW into water of
the State in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of
the WRA’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit, including an
increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation, or other permit issued to
the WRA by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources or the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency.
   41.   “Person” means any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm,
company, association, joint stock company, society, corporation trust, estate,
municipality, governmental entity, group, or any other legal entity, or their
legal representatives, agents, or assigns.
   42.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen
ions in grams per liter of solution.
   43.   “Pollution” means the alteration of chemical, physical, biological, or
radiological integrity of water as a result of human activity or enterprise.
   44.   “POTW treatment plant” means that portion of the publicly owned
treatment works which is designed to provide treatment, including recycling and
reclamation, of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
   45.   “Pretreatment” means the reduction, elimination, or alteration of the
nature of pollutant properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging
or otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
   46.   “Pretreatment facility” means the equipment used to accomplish
pretreatment.
   47.   “Pretreatment requirements” means any substantive or procedural
requirement related to pretreatment standards, imposed on an industrial user.
   48.   “Pretreatment standards” means, for any specified pollutant, the
prohibitive discharge standards as set forth in Section 100.11, the specific
limitations on discharge as set forth in Section 100.12, the State pretreatment
standards or the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards, whichever
standard is most stringent.
   49.   “Properly shredded garbage” means the waste from the preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that
all particles are carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing
in the POTW, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   50.   “Publicly owned treatment works” or “POTW” means and includes “POTW”
treatment works as defined by Section 212 of the Act, and which is owned by the
Des Moines Metropolitan Wastewater Reclamation Authority or any of
participating communities that make up the WRA.
   This definition includes any devices and systems used in the storage,
treatment, recycling, and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes
of a liquid nature. It also includes sewers, pipes, and other conveyances if
they convey wastewater to a POTW treatment plant.
   51.   “Sampling chamber” or “sampling maintenance hole” means a device or
structure suitable and appropriate to permit sampling and flow measurement of a
wastewater stream to determine compliance with this chapter.
   52.   “Sanitary district” means the Urbandale Sanitary Sewer District and
Urbandale-Windsor Heights Sanitary District incorporated pursuant to Chapter
358 of the Code of Iowa and serving the cities of Urbandale and the City.
   53.   “Severe property damage” means substantial physical damage to
property, damage to a pretreatment facility causing it to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   54.   “Sewage” means and includes wastewater as herein defined.
   55.   “Sewage system” means sewers, intercepting sewers, pipes, or conduits,
pumping stations, force mains, and all other constructions, devices, and
appliances appurtenant thereto used for collecting or conducting sewage to a
point of treatment or ultimate disposal.
   56.   “Significant user” means:
      A.   All categorical users.
      B.   All industrial users that:
         (1)   Discharge 25,000 gallons per day or more of process wastewater
(excludes sanitary, non-contact cooling, and boiler blowdown wastewater);
         (2)   Contribute a process waste stream which makes up five percent or
more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the WRF; or
         (3)   Contribute a discharge that has a reasonable potential, in the
opinion of the Director, to adversely affect the POTW treatment plant by
causing interference or pass through.
   57.   “Sludge” means the solids separated from the liquids during the
wastewater treatment process.
   58.   “Slug” or “slug load” means any discharge of water or wastewater
which, in concentration of any pollutant, measured using a grab or composite
sample, is more than five times the allowable concentration as set forth in
Sections 100.11 and 100.12 or in a user’s most recent Wastewater Discharge
Permit or which exceeds a slug concentration level specified in a Wastewater
Discharge Permit. A discharge with pH outside the allowable range by more than
one standard unit (S.U.) shall also be considered a slug.
   59.   “Standard Industrial Classification” (SIC) means a classification
pursuant to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the
Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget, most recent
edition.
   60.   “Standard methods” means the laboratory procedures set forth in the
latest USEPA approved edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Environment
Federation.
   61.   “Storm sewer” means a sewer which carries stormwater, surface water,
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial waste other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   62.   “T,” when used as a portion of a chemical name, shall designate
“total” such as in “cyanide-T” where “T” means “total” cyanide.
   63.   “TKN” means the Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen concentration expressed in mg/
l as determined using Environmental Protection Agency methods or standard
methods.
   64.   “Total metal” means the sum total of the suspended and dissolved
concentrations of a metal specified in a wastewater discharge permit or as
specified in Section 100.12 hereof.
   65.   “Total Suspended Solids” (TSS) means the portion of total solids
retained by a filter using Environmental Protection Agency methods or standard
methods.
   66.   “Total Toxic Organics” (TTO) means the summation of all quantified
values greater than 0.01 milligram per liter for the toxic organics as
specified in the applicable regulation.
   67.   “Toxic pollutant” means any pollutant or combination of pollutants
listed in 40 CFR 403, Appendix B.
   68.   “Unpolluted water” means water containing none of the following:
      A.   Free or emulsified oil and grease;
      B.   Substances that may impart taste, odor, or color characteristics;
      C.   Volatile, explosive, toxic, or poisonous substances in suspension or
solution;
      D.   Explosive, odorous, or otherwise obnoxious gases.
   Such water shall not contain more than 25 mg/l of suspended solids, and not
more than 25 mg/l of BOD.
   69.   “Upset” means an exceptional incident in which there is unintentional
and temporary noncompliance with pretreatment standards because of factors
beyond the reasonable control of the user. An upset does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
pretreatment facilities, inadequate pretreatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
   70.   “User” means a person discharging anything other than domestic
wastewater into the POTW, and includes categorical users as herein defined.
   71.   “Waste generator” means any person which hauls or has hauled on its
behalf wastewater it generates to the WRF.
   72.   “Waste hauler” means a private contractor licensed by the WRA to
deliver wastewater to the WRF or other locations approved by the WRA Director,
and includes all persons required to have a license under Section
100.74.
   73.   “Wastewater” means and includes “sewage” as defined in federal law and
regulation, or a combination of the liquid and water-carried waste from
residences, commercial buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments,
together with such groundwater, surface water, and stormwater as may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or permitted
to enter the POTW.
   74.   “Wastewater Discharge Permit” means the document issued to a user by
the WRA in accordance with the terms of this chapter which permits such user to
discharge wastewater to the POTW.
   75.   “Water of the State” means all streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation
systems, drainage systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water,
surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are
contained within, flow through or border upon the State or any portion thereof.
   76.   “WRA” or “wastewater reclamation authority” means the Des Moines
Metropolitan Wastewater Reclamation Authority, an entity organized and existing
under Chapters 28E and 28F of the Code of Iowa and established pursuant to the
WRA Agreement. The term “WRA” means and includes the representatives of the
participating communities on the WRA Board, and the officers and employees of
the WRA.
   77.   “WRA Agreement” means the Amended and Restated Agreement for the Des
Moines Metropolitan Wastewater Reclamation Authority, approved and executed by
the WRA and its participating communities and effective as of July 1, 2004.
   78.   “WRA Director” or “Director” means the person appointed by the WRA
Board, or by the WRA operating contractor upon consultation with the board, as
provided in Section 2.63 of the WRA operating contract, who is charged with the
administration and management of the WRA system and of the provision of all
services outlined in operating contract. Unless otherwise indicated in the
text, the Director shall mean and include the person acting as the Director’s
authorized designee in the Director’s absence in carrying out the Director’s
duties under this chapter.
   79.   “WRA operating contractor” or “operating contractor” means the City of
Des Moines, pursuant to the Initial Operating Contractor executed by the City
of Des Moines and the WRA Board on and as of July 1, 2004, or such successor
operating contractor as the WRA shall contract with to provide operation and
management services to the WRA.
   80.   “WRA participating community” or “WRA participating communities”
means, individually or collectively, depending on context, the cities of
Altoona, Ankeny, Bondurant, Clive, Cumming, Des Moines, Grimes, Johnston,
Norwalk, Pleasant Hill, Polk City, Waukee, and West Des Moines, and Polk
County, Warren County, the Urbandale Sanitary Sewer District, the Urbandale-
Windsor Heights Sanitary District and the Greenfield Plaza or Hills of Coventry
Sanitary District, together with any other cities, counties, or sanitary
districts that become participating communities under the provisions of the WRA
Agreement.
   81.   “WRA system” means and includes the WRF, the WCCS, satellite
wastewater and CSO treatment facilities hereafter constructed, all real and
personal property of every nature hereinafter owned by the WRA and comprising
part of or used as a part of the WRA system, and all appurtenances, contracts,
leases, franchises, and other intangibles of the WRA.
   82.   “WRA wastewater collection and conveyance system” or “WCCS” means the
WRA sanitary sewer interceptors and extensions to same, detention basins,
equalization basins, storage facilities, pumping stations, force mains and all
related property and improvements.
   83.   “WRA wastewater reclamation facility” or “WRF” means the wastewater
treatment plant located generally at 3000 Vandalia Road, Des Moines, Iowa, as
the same may be expanded or improved in the future, and any other wastewater
treatment plants hereafter acquired or constructed and operated by the WRA.
100.02   ABBREVIATIONS.
The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
BETX     Benzene, ethylbenzene, toluene, and xylenes (total)
BOD      Biochemical oxygen demand
BMR      Baseline monitoring report
C        Celsius
CFR      Code of Federal Regulations
COD      Chemical oxygen demand
EPA      Environmental Protection Agency
F        Fahrenheit
FOG      Fat, oil, and grease
GPD      Gallons per day
IDNR     Iowa Department of Natural Resources
lb/day   Pounds per day
mgd      Million gallons per day
mg/l     Milligrams per liter
NCPS     National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or categorical standards
NH3-N    Ammonia nitrogen
NPDES    National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
O&G      Oil and grease
POTW     Publicly owned treatment works
SCP      Spill control plan
SIC      Standard industrial classification
SNC      Significant noncompliance
RCRA     Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
TCLP     Toxicity characteristic leaching procedure
TFE      Trichlorotrifluoroethane
TKN      Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TOH      Total organic hydrocarbons
TRC      Technical review criteria
TSS      Total suspended solids
TTO      Total toxic organics
USC      United States Code
U.S. EPA United States Environmental Protection Agency
VPH      Volatile petroleum hydrocarbons
 
100.03   GENERAL ADOPTION.
   The provisions of this chapter are enacted to aid in the enforcement of the
pretreatment regulations set forth in this chapter and may be placed in a
separate portion of the municipal or county code of any WRA participating
community which adopts these provisions. Each WRA participating community, by
enacting this chapter, designates the WRA and its operating contractor as the
enforcement agency under this chapter. Employees, agents, and officers of the
WRA and of its operating contractor, while acting to enforce this chapter for
the WRA, are empowered to make such inspections, issue such orders or permits,
and take such actions within the corporate boundaries of the City within the
boundaries of the Sanitary District as are authorized by this chapter. The WRA
or its operating contractor is also authorized to impose and collect all fees
or penalties authorized by this chapter and are authorized to directly bill and
collect from contributors’ penalties, fees charges, and surcharges from all
users within the City. A user’s failure to pay any fee, charge, penalty, or
surcharge is a municipal infraction and shall also be grounds to discontinue
sewer service to the user, all as hereafter more particularly provided. The
enforcement of this chapter in the Sanitary District is not dependent upon
passage of this chapter or a similar ordinance by other WRA participating
communities.
100.04   INTENT AND CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter seeks to implement provisions of the Act, the general
pretreatment regulations found at 40 CFR, Part 403, and the Iowa Administrative
Code, Chapter 567, Sections 62.4 and 62.8. This chapter is to be construed and
applied in accordance with the Clean Water Act amendments, the general
pretreatment regulations, the Iowa Administrative Code, and the purpose and
policy provision set forth in Section
100.05.
100.05   PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   1.   This chapter regulates the use of sanitary sewers; private wastewater
disposal; the installation and connection of building sewers; and the discharge
of wastewater or waste into the POTW.
   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for discharges into the POTW,
and the deposit of wastewater and waste hauled to the WRF or to other locations
approved by the WRA Director for disposal and treatment.
   2.   The objectives of this chapter are to:
      A.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that may
interfere with the operation of the system or interfere with sludge management
and disposal.
      B.   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that may pass
through the system inadequately treated and ultimately into receiving water,
the atmosphere, or otherwise be incompatible with the system.
      C.   Protect workers’ safety and health and protect against damage to the
POTW.
      D.   Provide for equitable distribution of treatment and industrial
pretreatment costs resulting from pollutants introduced into the POTW.
100.06   JURISDICTION.
   The sections of this chapter are applicable in their entirety to all users
who contribute wastewater, directly or indirectly, into the POTW without regard
to whether the physical facilities of such users are situated within or outside
the corporate limits of the Sanitary District or City.
100.07   SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any
particular person or particular circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity
shall not affect other provisions or application of this chapter which can be
given effect without the invalid provision or application. To this end the
provisions of this chapter are severable.
100.08   INTERPRETATION.
   This chapter shall be construed and interpreted to conform with 40 CFR I,
and it is the intent of this chapter that it comply with the federal
regulations.
100.09   RESERVED.
*** DIVISION 2. WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND PRETREATMENT ***
100.10   USER REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   The following requirements shall apply to all users of the POTW:
      A.   All users shall promptly notify the WRA Director in advance of any
substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants in their discharge.
      B.   New or increased contributions of pollutants or changes in the
nature of pollutant discharged to the POTW shall require prior approval by the
WRA Director.
      C.   Industrial users shall notify the WRA Director, the Environmental
Protection Agency Regional Waste Management Division Director, and State
hazardous waste authorities in writing of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
CFR 261. The notification shall comply with the requirements set forth in 40
CFR 403.12(p).
      D.   Discharge of any pollutants without the notice and approval required
by this section is prohibited. Upon the receipt of notice required by this
section, the WRA Director shall, within 180 days or less, approve the discharge
if they find the proposed discharge meets applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements and would not cause the WRA to violate its National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System Permit. The WRA Director shall deny permission for
the discharge if they find applicable pretreatment standards and requirements
are not met or the discharge would cause a violation of the National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System Permit for the WRF.
   In lieu of denial of permission for discharge, the WRA Director may allow
such discharge or contribution upon conditions which would not violate
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements and would not cause a
violation of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit for the
WRF.
      E.   Food service establishments shall be regulated first under Division
5 of this chapter but may be required to obtain a Wastewater Discharge Permit
and be subject to the requirements of Divisions 1-4 if the WRA Director
determines that additional pretreatment is required in order to comply with
fat, oil, and grease discharge limits.
   2.   Any part of this section notwithstanding, upon receipt of the notice
required by this section, the WRA Director may require, in addition to the
requirements of this section, that an industrial user obtain a permit under
this chapter.
   3.   Users who are determined to be industrial users as herein defined and
who refuse to apply for or obtain a Wastewater Discharge Permit shall be
subject to termination of sewer services as provided in Section
100.47 hereof.
100.11   DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   The following general prohibitions shall apply to all users of the POTW
unless the user is subject to a more restrictive National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards, the Iowa Department of Natural Resources, or Wastewater
Discharge Permit limit. The following substances are prohibited from discharge
to the POTW:
   1.   Pollutants creating a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW, including,
but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140
degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius) using test methods referenced in 40 CFR
261.21. Waste streams shall not be ignitable at ambient temperatures. At no
time shall two successive readings on a meter capable of reading L.E.L. (lower
explosive limit) at the nearest accessible point to the POTW, at the point of
discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW, be more than five percent
nor any single reading greater than 10 percent.
   2.   Any substance which will cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW,
but in no case discharges with pH lower than 5.0 or greater than 12.0.
   3.   Solid or viscous pollutants which will cause obstruction to the flow in
the POTW resulting in interference. Such pollutants include, but are not
limited to, grease, garbage with particles greater than one-half inch any
dimension, animal tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings,
entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or
marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, wipes, spent
grains, spent hops, wastepaper, wood, plastics, tar, asphalt residues from
refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud, or glass grinding or
polishing waste, or tumbling and de-burring stones, and wastewater containing
fat, wax, O and G, or other substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between 32 and 150 degrees Fahrenheit (zero and 65 degrees
Celsius).
   4.   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate or pollutant concentration which will
cause interference or pass through at the WRF, or which constitutes a slug load
as defined in this chapter.
   5.   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference, but in no case wastewater or vapor having a
temperature higher than 150 degrees Fahrenheit (65 degrees Celsius) at the
point of introduction into the POTW, and in no case wastewater or vapor which
alone or in concert with other discharges produces a temperature at the WRF
greater than 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius).
   6.   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.
   7.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems or a public nuisance.
   8.   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the WRA.
   9.   Any radioactive material as defined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954,
as amended, and as defined in I.C. §136C.1, except materials which meet
conditions of disposal by release into sanitary sewerage pursuant to 10 CFR
20.2003.
   10.   Any wastewater containing concentrations of inert suspended solids,
such as, but not limited to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues,
or of dissolved solids, such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate, which exceed 3,000 mg/l nonvolatile or 3,000 mg/l total dissolved
solids unless approved by the WRA Director.
   11.   Pollutants causing excessive discoloration, such as, but not limited
to, dye waste and vegetable tanning solutions.
   12.   Hazardous waste pharmaceuticals for human or animal use as defined in
40 CFR 266.500.
100.12   LOCAL LIMITS FOR SPECIFIC POLLUTANTS.
   1.   Generally. Local limits for specific pollutants discharged pursuant to
this chapter shall be as follows:
      A.   Dilution. Dilution of the discharge from a pretreatment facility or
from a regulated process is prohibited as a method for treatment of wastes in
order to meet the limits set forth in this chapter.
      B.   Sample Location. Measurement of pollutant concentrations to
determine compliance shall be made at the point immediately following the
pretreatment facility and before mixture with other waters, unless another
point is designated by the WRA Director. If necessary, the concentrations so
measured shall be recomputed to exclude the effect of any dilution that is
improper using the combined waste stream formula.
   2.   Headworks Limits; Average Mass. The average composite loading of all
industrial users contributing the following specific pollutants to the POTW
shall not exceed the allowable total pounds. The allocation of pollutants
between industrial and nonindustrial sources may be adjusted by the Director
provided that the allowable total loading for any pollutant at the headworks of
the WRF is not exceeded.
 
          30-Day Average Allowable Pounds Per Day
Pollutant Total   Industrial
BOD       195,600 135,153
TSS       300,000 208,463
NH3       13,000  6,959
TKN       27,760  16,950
          Maximum Allowable Headworks Loading Maximum Allowable Industrial
          Pounds Per Day                      Loading Pounds Per Day
Pollutant Total                               Industrial
           Maximum Allowable Headworks Loading Maximum Allowable Industrial
           Pounds Per Day                      Loading Pounds Per Day
Pollutant  Total                               Industrial
Arsenic-T  7.58                                3.81
Cadmium-T  3.65                                2.16
Chromium-T 136.35                              120.90
Copper-T   148.56                              125.51
Cyanide-T  17.08                               8.28
Lead-T     28.17                               20.94
Mercury-T  0.999                               0.747
Nickel-T   87.27                               75.75
Silver-T   23.30                               19.77
Zinc-T     360.59                              283.53
 
   3.   Discharge Concentration Limits and Review Criteria. Discharge
concentration limits and review criteria shall be as follows:
      A.   The discharge into the POTW of any materials, water, or waste having
a pollutant concentration greater than the limits in Subsections (3)(C), (D),
and (E) of this section or containing pollutants not listed in this subsection
shall be subject to the review and approval of the WRA Director. After review
of the proposed discharges, the WRA Director may:
         (1)   Reject the waste for reasons consistent with Section
100.05.
         (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable pollutant concentration
for discharge to the POTW.
         (3)   Require control of the quantities and rates of discharge of the
water or waste.
         (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and
treatment of water and waste or any combination thereof.
         (5)   Reduce the maximum or average mass loading of present and
prospective individual users on any reasonable prorated basis to meet headworks
loading limits at the WRF.
         (6)   Require the user to obtain a Wastewater Discharge Permit and be
subject to any of the rules and regulations contained therein.
         (7)   Require the user to meet local limits when local limits are more
restrictive than National Categorical Pretreatment Standards, provided that
headworks loading limits are met.
         (8)   Initiate enforcement action in response to any noncompliance
with this chapter using the enforcement procedures outlined in this chapter.
         (9)   Take any combination of the steps in Subsections 3(A)(1) through
3(A)(7), as appropriate.
      B.   Users discharging wastewater to the POTW whose pollutant
concentrations or flows are greater than the following shall be considered
industrial users for purposes of sewer charges and may be regulated or
permitted by the WRA Director as appropriate:
 Pollutant Daily Maximum (mg/l)
   Pollutant Daily Maximum (mg/l)
a. BOD       200
b. TSS       250
c. COD       300
d. O and G-T 100
e. TKN       30
f. NH3-N     15
g. An average daily flow greater than 5,000 gallons or having an unusual
   concentration of flow.
      C.   Pollutant Limits. Average and maximum concentration limits for users
without National Categorical Pretreatment Standards for these pollutants shall
be as follows:
Pollutant Daily Maximum (mg/l) Monthly Average (mg/l)
Pollutant       Daily Maximum (mg/l) Monthly Average (mg/l)
Arsenic-T       0.38                 0.25
Cadmium-T       0.08                 0.05
Chromium-T      6.43                 4.29
Copper-T        10.21                6.80
Cyanide-T       0.53                 0.36
Lead-T          1.43                 0.95
Mercury-T       0.042                0.028
Nickel-T        7.22                 4.81
O and G-T       400.0                --
O and G-Mineral 100.0                --
Silver-T        1.30                 0.87
VPH             10.0                 --
Zinc-T          19.64                13.09
pH range shall be not lower than 5.0 or greater than 12.0.
Temperatures (liquids or vapors) shall be not greater than 150 degrees
Fahrenheit at the point of entry into the POTW.
      D.   Daily Maximum Pollutant Limits for Hauled Waste. Wastes delivered to
the WRF by truck or rail shall not exceed the following concentrations in any
load or overall daily loading limits unless otherwise approved by the WRA
Director:
Pollutant Concentration (mg/l) Loading
                               (pounds per day)
Pollutant  Concentration (mg/l) Loading
                                (pounds per day)
COD        100,000              --
O and G-T  50,000               --
VPH        10.0                 --
Arsenic-T  --                   0.014
Cadmium-T  --                   0.93
Chromium-T --                   24.74
Copper-T   --                   23.71
Cyanide-T  --                   0.29
Lead-T     --                   6.70
Mercury-T  --                   0.12
Nickel-T   --                   3.71
Silver-T   --                   0.26
Zinc-T     --                   87.62
pH range shall be not lower than 5.0 or greater than 12.0
      E.   Daily Maximum Limit for Gasoline Cleanup Projects. Discharge of
wastewater from sites where gasoline is being removed from the soil or
groundwater shall meet the following limits prior to discharge to the POTW:
 
Pollutant mg/l
Benzene   0.050
BETX      0.750
 
   4.   No subsection of this section shall be construed to provide lesser
discharge standards than are or that may be imposed and required by U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency or the Iowa Department of Natural Resources,
nor to allow the average allowable total loading for any pollutant at the
headworks of the WRF to be exceeded.
100.13   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards (NCPS) as
contained in 40 CFR I, Subchapter N, Part 405-471 shall comply with the
standards and applicable reporting requirements under 40 CFR 403.12. New
sources of categorical discharge shall meet National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards in the shortest feasible time, but in no case longer than 90 days
from the commencement of discharge. Failure to comply shall be a violation of
this chapter and subject the user to enforcement action. The WRA is required to
notify all known affected categorical users of the applicable reporting
requirements under 40 CFR 403.12. Failure of the WRA to notify a user shall not
relieve the user of the duty, if any, to comply with National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards.
100.14   STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges pursuant to this chapter
shall apply when they are more stringent than U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or WRA requirements and limitations, unless allowed by the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources.
100.15   CITY’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The City, acting at the direction of the WRA, reserves the right to
establish more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the POTW
than those contained in this chapter if deemed necessary to comply with the
purpose and policy objectives presented in Section
100.05.
100.16   PRETREATMENT.
   1.   A user discharging or with potential to discharge any waste into the
POTW as set forth in Sections
100.11,
100.12, or
100.13 of this division shall be required by the WRA Director to construct,
install, and operate, at the user’s sole expense, such pretreatment facilities
as may be required in order to:
      A.   Reduce the objectionable characteristics or constituents of
wastewater to within the maximum limits provided for in Sections
100.11,
100.12,
100.13, or
100.14.
      B.   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such wastewater.
      C.   Reduce the pollutants to such concentration and flows as may be
contained in the user’s Wastewater Discharge Permit.
      D.   Prevent the discharge of liquid waste containing FOG, sand in
excessive amounts, any flammable waste, or other harmful pollutants. All traps
or similar devices shall be of a type and capacity needed to perform
effectively and shall be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. All traps or devices shall be provided and maintained in efficient
operating condition at all times. Materials removed from traps shall be
considered unacceptable for disposal at the WRF, unless specifically approved
by the WRA Director.
   2.   All plans, specifications, technical operating data, and other
information pertinent to the proposed operation and maintenance of pretreatment
facilities shall be reviewed and approved by the WRA Director prior to
construction. Design and installation of such facilities shall be subject to
the requirements of all applicable codes, chapters, and laws, including local
zoning regulations. The review and approval of such plans and operating
procedures shall, in no way, relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
WRA Director under this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment
facilities or method of operations shall be reported to and be acceptable to
the WRA Director prior to the user’s initiations of the changes.
   3.   Users shall continuously maintain all pretreatment facilities required
by this chapter in satisfactory and effective operating condition at the sole
expense of such user.
   4.   No section contained in this chapter shall be construed to prevent or
prohibit a separate or special agreement between the WRA and any user whereby
wastewater containing waste of unusual strength, character, or composition may
be accepted for treatment, subject to additional payment by such user;
provided, however, that such agreement shall have the prior approval of the WRA
Board, shall not conflict with the Iowa Department of Natural Resources and
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency requirements, and shall be consistent with
Section 100.66(2) and Sections 100.13 and 100.14, and Subsection 6 of this
section.
   5.   The WRA Director may reject any waste which, in the opinion of the
Director, may cause interference or pass through.
   6.   Users shall obtain the specific approval of the WRA Director prior to
discharging any waste resulting from a pretreatment facility to the POTW.
   The WRA Director may develop a documentation system to track the
transportation and final disposition of any pretreatment waste. Pretreatment
waste regulated by this subsection shall include waste generated as a result of
pretreatment processes used to comply with National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System Permits, air pollution permits, Wastewater Discharge
Permits, soil or groundwater reclamation processes, and pollutants resulting
from a spill of any liquid or solid material or the cleanup of any such spill.
Pretreatment waste is prohibited from disposal to the water of the State except
as specifically permitted by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources.
100.17   DILUTION PROHIBITED.
   Users shall not increase the use of processed water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
pretreatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the
National Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or with any other pollutant-
specific limitation developed by the WRA or its operating contractor.
100.18   SPILL CONTAINMENT.
   1.   Users having the ability to cause interference or pass through or to
discharge a slug shall provide protection from accidental discharge to the POTW
of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter.
Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be
constructed, installed, operated, and maintained at the user’s sole cost and
expense.
   2.   Users meeting the criteria in Subsection 1 of this section shall
develop a spill containment plan. The plan shall require the approval of the
WRA Director and shall contain the following:
      A.   A description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges.
      B.   A description of stored chemicals.
      C.   Procedures for immediately notifying the WRA of slug discharges,
including any that would violate the discharge prohibitions in Section
100.11 of this division. Notification procedures shall comply with Subsections
3 and 4 of this section.
      D.   A description of procedures and structures necessary to prevent
adverse impacts upon the POTW from accidental spills, including inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants including solvents, or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
      E.   A schedule for the completion or implementation of necessary
procedures and structures. Complete implementation and installation of any
procedures or structures shall be according to the shortest possible schedule,
but in no case longer than one year. Review and approval of such plans and
operating procedures shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to
modify and operate its facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
   3.   Users shall immediately telephone and notify the WRA of any accidental
or deliberate discharge of pollutants which violates Section
100.11 of this division, or which is a slug load. Any discharge into the POTW
of a substance which is a listed or characteristic waste under Section 3001 of
RCRA must be immediately reported to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
Regional Director, the Iowa Department of Natural Resources, and the WRA.
   Notifications required in this subsection shall include the name of caller,
location and time of discharge, pollutant concentration, volume, and the
corrective actions taken.
   4.   Users shall submit a written report to the WRA Director within five
days following such an accidental or deliberate discharge describing the cause
of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar
future occurrences. Users shall submit follow-up reports as may be required by
the WRA Director. Such report shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss,
damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the
POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or property, nor shall such
report relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties, or other liability which
may be imposed by this chapter or otherwise. Failure to report accidental or
deliberate discharges may, in addition to any other remedies available to the
City and Sanitary District, result in the revocation of the discharger’s
Wastewater Discharge Permit.
   5.   Users shall control production or all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with all applicable regulations upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its pretreatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of pretreatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
to the user's pretreatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   6.   Users required to have a spill containment plan must permanently post a
notice in English and the language of common use on the user’s bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees whom to call if a prohibited
discharge occurs. Users shall ensure that all employees who are in a position
to cause, discover, or observe such an accidental discharge are advised of the
emergency notification procedures.
100.19   TREATMENT UPSETS.
   1.   Users shall inform the WRA Director within one hour of becoming aware
of an upset in operations that places it in a temporary state of noncompliance
with the pollutant limits in this chapter. Users shall provide a follow-up
written report to the WRA Director within five days. The report must
demonstrate that the pretreatment facility was being operated in a prudent and
appropriate manner and shall contain:
      A.   A description of the upset, its cause, and impact on the user’s
compliance status.
      B.   The duration of noncompliance, including exact dates and times of
noncompliance, and, if the noncompliance is continuing, the time by which
compliance is reasonably expected to be restored.
      C.   All steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
recurrence of such an upset.
100.20   TREATMENT BYPASS.
   1.   Under this chapter, bypass is prohibited unless it is unavoidable to
prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage or no feasible
alternatives exist such as the use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention
of untreated waste, or maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime.
   2.   The user may allow a bypass to occur which does not cause a violation
of pretreatment standards, but only if it is for essential maintenance to
ensure efficient operation.
   3.   Notification of bypass shall be submitted in accordance with the
following:
      A.   Anticipated Bypass. If the user knows in advance of the need for a
bypass, it shall submit prior written notice, at least 10 days before the date
of the bypass, to the WRA Director.
      B.   Unanticipated Bypass. The user shall immediately notify the WRA
Director and submit a written report to the WRA within five days. This report
shall specify the following:
         (1)   A description of the bypass, its cause, and the duration.
         (2)   Whether the bypass has been corrected.
         (3)   The steps being taken or to be taken to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent a reoccurrence of the bypass.
   4.   Proper notification shall not relieve the user of liability for
treatment costs and fees or other remedies as provided for in Section
100.16 of this division.
100.21   FEES.
   To provide for the recovery of costs from users of the POTW and for the
implementation of the pretreatment program established by this chapter, the
following fees are hereby established and shall be applicable to discharges by
all users:
   1.   All users shall be subject to the following fees and charges:
      A.   The one-time Wastewater Discharge Permit Application Fee shall be
$200.00 for a Class A Permit and $100.00 for a Class B Permit.
      B.   The annual fee for a Class A Wastewater Discharge Permit, including
annual inspection of permitted users, shall be $1,500.00.
      C.   The annual fee for a Class B Wastewater Discharge Permit, including
annual inspection of permitted users if completed or applicable, shall be
$750.00.
      D.   The fee paid by each industrial user when an accidental discharge or
slug load occurs shall be the total of all costs incurred by the WRA as a
result of said discharge or load. Said fee may be charged by the WRA separately
from and in addition to a civil penalty of up to $1,000.00 charged to the user
under Section 100.45 related to said discharge or load.
      E.   The trip charge for sampling or inspecting a user’s discharge shall
be $50.00 per event. An equipment fee of $50.00 per event shall also apply when
using a WRA-owned automatic sampler. When a sampling or inspection event must
be rescheduled due to failure of the user’s sampling equipment, a sampler seal
(used to detect sample tampering) being broken, monitoring facilities not being
readily accessible or operational, or any other reason beyond the control of
the WRA, a trip charge of $50.00 shall be assessed.
      F.   Laboratory analysis fees for those analyses performed by the WRA
shall be as follows:
LABORATORY ANALYSIS FEES
Test Cost/Sample
LABORATORY ANALYSIS FEES
Test                          Cost/Sample
BOD                           $20.00
COD                           $20.00
Total Organic Carbon (TOC)    $20.00
TSS                           $10.00
pH                            $5.00
Oil and grease - Total        $35.00
Mineral or Nonmineral         $35.00
Nitrogen, ammonia             $15.00
Nitrogen, nitrate             $15.00
TKN                           $30.00
Phosphorous, total            $25.00
Potassium                     $12.00
Calcium carbonate equivalent  $15.00
Soil analysis, each pollutant $20.00
Phenols                       $28.00
Cyanide                       $30.00
Metals:
Arsenic                       $20.00
Selenium                      $20.00
Mercury                       $25.00
Other metals (per parameter)  $15.00
BETX (OA-1)                   $40.00
VPH (OA-1)                    $40.00
BETX & VPH (OA-1)             $45.00
USEPA Tests:
                              608 Organochlorine Pesticides and PCBs    $70.00
                              624 Volatile Organic Compounds            $140.00
                              625 Base or Neutral Organic Compounds; or $290.00
                              625 Acid or Organic Compounds             $290.00
 
      G.   Fees for analysis performed by laboratories other than the WRA
laboratory shall be the full cost of each analysis.
      H.   Fees for rescheduling a scheduled inspection with WRA personnel,
with less than 24 hours’ notice or if appropriate facility managers are
unavailable at the scheduled time of inspection, shall be $100.00 per
rescheduled inspection.
      I.   Fees for copying and mailing documents shall be $1.00 for the
initial page and $0.25 for each additional page plus postage. No charges shall
be assessed for requests for copies received from individuals or agencies
served by the WRA, provided the number of pages requested does not exceed ten.
      J.   Fees for past due reminders sent each 30 days that a balance remains
unpaid shall be $5.00.
      K.   Prohibitive waste charges for each pollutant discharged in excess of
permit or ordinance limits shall be $50.00 per violation for Class B Permit
holders and $100.00 per violation for Class A Permit holders. Charges shall
double if discharges exceed slug threshold values. Payment of fees does not
preclude other enforcement action and may not be paid in lieu of compliance
with discharge limitations.
      L.   At the WRA’s discretion, administrative cost recovery fees may be
assessed separately to a user or added to a user’s disposal fee for actions or
occurrences subject to Division 6 of this chapter which result in the need for
additional labor, equipment, or materials from the WRA or its contractors,
including, but not limited to, cleanup of spills, infrastructure maintenance,
improper scale transactions, improper disposal, and waste source verification.
Fees shall be assessed based on the actual costs incurred by the WRA, or on the
estimated costs incurred by the WRA rounded down to the nearest multiple of 20
based on actual rates for labor, materials, and equipment with a minimum fee of
not less than $20.00. Fees under this Paragraph L will be charged in addition
to charges, fines, fees, or other costs associated with rejected, unapproved,
or atypical wastes under Sections 100.81 and 100.82.
   2.   All users contributing wastewater in excess of the following
concentrations shall be assessed a surcharge, which shall be in addition to the
rates and charges ordinarily billed to such users for sewer use. Commencing
October 1, 2022, until June 30, 2025, surcharges shall be assessed in
accordance with the following rate schedule:
 
                    Surcharge per Pound of Pollutant for the Period:
Pollutant           10/1/2022 - 06/30/ 07/01/2023 - 06/30/ 07/01/2024 - 06/30/
                    2023               2024                2025
Total suspended
solids in excess of $0.18              $0.20               $0.22
250 mg/l
BOD or CBOD in      $0.14              $0.17               $0.21
excess of 200 mg/l
TKN in excess of 30 $0.55              $0.49               $0.42
mg/l
Oil and grease in   $0.08              $0.10               $0.11
excess of 100 mg/l
Commencing on July 1, 2025, surcharge rates listed in the above table shall be
annually adjusted as of July 1 of each year to increase two percent per annum
rounded to the nearest whole cent.
Chemical oxygen demand (COD) in excess of 300 mg/l may be used at the
discretion of the WRA Director in lieu of CBOD.In such case the excess COD
concentration shall be multiplied by the known CBOD or COD ratio or by a ratio
of two-thirds to establish an equivalent CBOD concentration.
Ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N) in excess of 15 mg/l may be used at the discretion of
the WRA Director in lieu of TKN by multiplying the excess NH3-N concentration
times two to establish an equivalent TKN concentration.
 
   3.   The establishment and imposition of new or different fees or charges,
in addition to or in substitution for those provided above in this section,
shall be by ordinance amending this chapter. The amounts of the fees and
charges established in this section shall be and remain in effect until such
time as the WRA Board shall, by resolution, revise said fee amounts. Said
revised fees and charges shall take effect after the Board causes said
resolution to be sent to this Council and thereafter causes same to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in each county in which
participating communities are located.
100.22   RESERVED.
*** DIVISION 3. INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS AND REPORTING
REQUIREMENTS ***
100.23   CLASSES OF PERMITS.
   Discharge permit classifications shall be as follows:
      1.   Class A Permit issued to a user discharging 25,000 gallons per day
or more of process wastewater (excludes sanitary, non-contact cooling, and
boiler blowdown).
      2.   Class B Permits issued to a user discharging less than 25,000
gallons per day of process wastewater.
100.24   PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   All new industrial users shall notify the WRA Director of the nature
and characteristics of their proposed discharge 180 days prior to commencing
discharge. A notification form prescribed by the WRA shall be used for this
purpose.
   2.   Significant users shall discharge wastewater, either directly or
indirectly, into the POTW only after obtaining a Wastewater Discharge Permit
from the WRA Director. Obtaining a Wastewater Discharge Permit does not relieve
a user of the obligation to obtain other permits required by federal, State, or
local law.
   3.   Other users, including waste haulers, shall obtain permits as required
by the WRA Director.
100.25   PERMIT APPLICATIONS; BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS; COMPLIANCE ISSUES.
   Users applying for a Wastewater Discharge Permit or categorical users
submitting a baseline monitoring report shall submit the following information
as required by 40 CFR 403.12 or by the WRA Director:
   1.   Users applying for a Wastewater Discharge Permit must submit an
application form prescribed by the WRA and accompanied by the application fee.
All new significant users must submit such application 180 days prior to the
date of any wastewater discharge.
   2.   Existing users subject to new National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards must, within 180 days after the effective date of the standard,
submit a baseline monitoring report prescribed by the WRA.
   New users subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards must submit
a baseline monitoring report prescribed by the WRA at least 90 days prior to
commencement of discharge to the POTW. A baseline monitoring report shall
include:
      A.   Name, address, and location of the facility, if different from the
mailing address.
      B.   Name of the operator and owners of the facility.
      C.   A list of all environmental control permits held by or for the
facility.
      D.   A description of the operations including the average rate of
production, applicable Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes,
schematic process diagrams, and points of discharge to the POTW from regulated
processes.
      E.   Daily average and daily maximum flow measurements for regulated
process waste streams and nonregulated waste streams where necessary.
      F.   The categorical user shall identify the pretreatment standards
applicable to each regulated process and shall submit the results of sampling
and analysis identifying the nature and concentration (or mass, where required)
of pollutants contained therein which are limited by the applicable
pretreatment standards from each regulated process.
      G.   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample
immediately downstream of any pretreatment facility or immediately downstream
of each regulated process if no pretreatment exists and prior to mixing with
other waste to compile that data necessary to comply with this requirement. If
non-regulated wastewater is mixed with regulated wastewater prior to
pretreatment, the user must measure the flows and concentrations necessary to
allow use of the combined waste stream formula of 40 CFR 403.6(e) in order to
evaluate compliance with pretreatment standards. Where an alternate
concentration or mass limit has been calculated in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6
(e), this adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be submitted to the
WRA Director. Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with 40
CFR 136 or other verified method approved by the WRA Director.
      H.   The time, date, and place of sampling, methods of analysis, and
certification that such sampling and analysis is representative of normal work
cycles and expected pollutant discharges to the POTW.
      I.   Historical data may be allowed by the WRA Director so long as the
data provides information sufficient to determine the need for industrial
pretreatment measures.
      J.   Certification by an authorized representative of the user as
referenced in Section 100.35 and certified to by a qualified professional
indicating whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis
and, if not, whether additional operation and maintenance or additional
pretreatment is required for the user to meet pretreatment standards and
requirements.
      K.   If additional pretreatment or O and M will be required to meet
pretreatment standards, requirements, discharge limits as set forth in Sections
100.11,
100.12, and
100.13, or any other limit set by the WRA Director, the user shall supply a
compliance schedule indicating the shortest time schedule necessary to
accomplish installation or adoption of such additional pretreatment of O and M.
   The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance
date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. The following
conditions apply to this schedule:
         (1)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards. Such schedule shall include, where
applicable, but shall not be limited to, dates for the hiring of an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, executing contracts for major components,
commencing construction, beginning operation, and conducting routine
operations.
         (2)   No increment referred to in Subsection (2)(K-L) of this section
shall exceed nine months, nor shall the total compliance period exceed 18
months.
         (3)   No later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
WRA Director, including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and the steps being taken by
the user to return to the established schedule. In no event shall more than
nine months elapse between such progress reports to the WRA Director.
      L.   A minimum of four grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total
phenols, oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile organic compounds. For all other
pollutants required, 24-hour composite samples must be obtained through flow-
proportional composite sampling techniques where feasible. The WRA Director may
waive flow-proportional composite sampling for any user who demonstrates that
flow-proportional sampling is not feasible. In such cases, samples may be
obtained through time-proportional techniques or through a minimum of four grab
samples where the user demonstrates that such sampling will provide a
representative sample of the effluent being discharged.
   3.   New significant users not subject to categorical standards shall submit
analysis of wastewater representative of the effluent discharged to the POTW as
required in Subsection (2)(G-I) of this section for all parameters deemed
necessary by the WRA Director.
   4.   New or existing industrial users nor subject to categorical
pretreatment standards who fail to meet local, State, or federal pretreatment
standards or other permit requirements on a consistent basis shall be subject
to compliance schedules for additional pretreatment or O and M as outlined in
Subsection (2)(K) of this section.
   5.   All applications and reports must contain the certification statement
and be signed in accordance with Section
100.35 of this division.
100.26   REPORT ON COMPLIANCE BY CATEGORICAL USERS.
   Users subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards shall submit a
report to the WRA Director containing the information described in Section
100.25(2) within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or, if a new source,
following commencement of discharge. Users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits shall provide a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term
production rate. For all other users subject to National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per
unit of production or other measure of operation, this report shall include the
user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All reports
must contain the certification statement and be signed in accordance with
Section
100.35.
100.27   PERMIT CONTENTS.
Wastewater Discharge Permits shall include such conditions as are reasonably
deemed necessary by the WRA Director to prevent passthrough or interference;
protect the quality of the water body receiving effluent from the POTW; protect
worker health and safety; facilitate the WRA’s sludge management and disposal
program; and protect against damage to the POTW.
   The WRA Director may include the following items in the permit, and such
additional items as the Director determines necessary or prudent.
   1.   Limits on the average or maximum rate of discharge, time of discharge,
or requirements for flow regulation and equalization.
   2.   Limits on the average or maximum concentration, mass, or other measure
of identified wastewater constituents or properties.
   3.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices, etc., designed to reduce,
eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW.
   4.   Development and implementation of spill control plans or other special
conditions, including additional management practices necessary to adequately
prevent accidental, unanticipated, or prohibited discharges.
   5.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the management
of the wastewater discharged to the POTW.
   6.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection, sampling,
and flow monitoring facilities and equipment for each separate discharge into
the POTW.
   7.   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for tests, and
reporting schedules.
   8.   Compliance schedules.
   9.   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge reports
and which may include production data.
   10.   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating to
wastewater discharge as specified by the WRA Director and affording the
Director or the Director’s representatives access thereto.
   11.   Requirements for the notification of any substantial change in the
manufacturing processes, pretreatment processes, quantity or quality of waste
discharged to the POTW 90 days prior to such change. The WRA Director shall
approve, deny, or condition a changed discharge prior to a change occurring in
accordance with Section
100.10(1)(D).
   12.   Requirements for notification of excessive, accidental, or slug
discharges.
   13.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the WRA Director to ensure
compliance with this chapter, and State and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
   14.   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal
pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the term
of the permit.
100.28   PERMIT DURATION AND RENEWAL.
   Permits required under this division shall be issued for a specified time
period, not to exceed five years. Permit fees shall be due annually to the WRA
regardless of the term of the permit. Permitted users shall apply for a new
permit by submitting a completed permit application a minimum of 90 days prior
to the expiration of the user’s existing permit.
100.29   CONTINUATION OF EXPIRED PERMITS.
   Expired permits issued pursuant to this division shall remain effective and
enforceable until the permit is reissued, unless the user is notified of permit
termination by the WRA Director.
100.30   PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   1.   The WRA Director may modify the permit issued pursuant to this division
for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following:
      A.   To incorporate any new or revised federal, State, or local
pretreatment standard or requirement. After becoming aware of more stringent
standards or requirements, the WRA will, as necessary, update permits within 90
days;
      B.   To make material or substantial alterations or additions to the
discharger’s operation processes, or discharge volume or character which were
not considered in drafting the effective permit;
      C.   To make a change in any condition in either the industrial user or
the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent reduction or elimination
of the authorized discharge;
      D.   Upon receipt of information indicating that the permitted discharge
poses a threat to the POTW, to the City, Sanitary District, the WRA or
operating contractor personnel, or to the receiving water;
      E.   Upon occurrence of a violation of any terms or conditions of the
permit;
      F.   Misrepresentation of, or grant of variance from, such categorical
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13;
      G.   To correct typographical or other errors in the permit;
      H.   To reflect transfer of ownership or operation of the permitted
facility to a new owner or operator; or
      I.   Upon request of the permittee, provided such request does not create
a violation of any applicable requirements, standards, laws, or rules and
regulations.
   2.   The filing of a request by the permittee for permit modification,
revocation, and reissuance, termination, or a notification of planned changes
or anticipated noncompliance shall not have the effect of staying or delaying
the implementation or effective date of any permit condition.
100.31   PERMIT TRANSFER.
   An Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit is not transferable to any other
person or entity. A new owner or operator must apply for a new Wastewater
Discharge Permit 60 days prior to taking ownership or undertaking operation of
a permitted facility.
100.32   DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The WRA Director may deny a wastewater discharge permit to any user whose
discharge of material to the POTW, whether shown upon application, including
test results submitted by the applicant, or determined after inspection or
testing conducted by the WRA or its operating contractor, is not in conformity
with this chapter or whose application is incomplete or does not comply with
the requirements of Section
100.25 of this division.
100.33   PERMIT VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of the terms, conditions, or limits of a user’s Wastewater
Discharge Permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and shall subject
the user to all enforcement procedures outlined in this chapter.
100.34   PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   Under this division, periodic compliance reports are required as follows:
   1.   Significant users shall submit to the WRA Director, during the months
of January and July, a report indicating the nature, concentration, and flow of
pollutants in the effluent which are limited by permit or pretreatment
standards for the preceding six-month period. This report shall include a
record of the monthly average flows and the daily flow for each analysis date
during the reporting period. At the discretion of the WRA Director and in
consideration of such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget
cycles, etc., the WRA Director may agree to alter the months during which the
reports are to be submitted. More frequent reports may be required by the WRA
Director.
   2.   The WRA Director may impose mass limitations on users. In such cases,
the report required by Subsection 1 of this section shall indicate the mass of
pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the user. All
analyses shall be performed using Environmental Protection Agency approved
methods using sampling techniques approved by the Iowa Department of Natural
Resources.
   3.   Users shall meet the certification and signatory requirements in
Section
100.35 of this division for each report submitted under this section. Where the
WRA itself collects all the information required for the report, including flow
data, the industrial user will not be required to submit a periodic compliance
report.
   4.   A user must notify the WRA Director of all violations identified as a
result of self-monitoring to the POTW by telephone, during normal business
hours, within 24 hours of the time the user becomes aware of such violation.
The user must also submit the results of repeat analyses to the WRA within 30
days after becoming aware of the violation, together with a complete report on
all steps taken to resolve the violation. The user need not repeat the analyses
if:
      A.   The WRA performs sampling of the industrial user at a frequency of
at least once per month; or
      B.   The WRA performs sampling of the user between the time when the user
performs its initial sampling and the time when the user receives the results
of this sampling.
   5.   A user who monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the
WRA or who self-monitors in addition to WRA monitoring, using Environmental
Protection Agency methods or standard methods, shall report the monitoring
results to the WRA Director in accordance with Subsections 1, 3, and 4 of this
section.
100.35   CERTIFICATION AND SIGNATORY REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   All applications or reports submitted by a user pursuant to this
division shall contain the following certification statement:
“I certify, under penalty of law, that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   2.   All applications and reports shall be signed by an authorized
representative of the user as defined in Section 100.01 of this chapter. A user
shall maintain a current and accurate authorization on file with the WRA
Director.
100.36   MONITORING FACILITIES.
   1.   When required by the WRA Director pursuant to this division, each
permitted user shall, at their expense, provide and operate monitoring
facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of the building
sewer or internal drainage systems. The WRA Director may require the placement
of such monitoring facilities at the end of each process where pollutants are
used, produced, or treated. The monitoring facility should normally be situated
on the user’s premises and located so that it will not be obstructed by
landscaping or parked vehicles.
   2.   When required by the Wastewater Discharge Permit and within 90 days of
written notification, a user shall install a sampling chamber for each separate
discharge of the building sewer in accordance with plans and specifications
approved by the WRA Director. A user shall provide ample room in or near such
sampling chamber to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for
analysis. Each user shall, at their expense, maintain all sampling and
measuring equipment in a safe and proper operating condition at all times,
which equipment shall be safely, easily, and independently accessible to
authorized representatives of the WRA.
   Users shall certify all flow measuring devices to be in proper working
condition at a frequency specified in the permit or in writing by the WRA
Director, using a qualified technician acceptable to the WRA Director. Sampling
shall be in accordance with the following:
      A.   Each sampling chamber shall contain a flume unless another device is
approved by the WRA Director, with a recording and totalizing device for
measurement of the liquid quantity.
      B.   At the discretion of the WRA Director, metered water supply to a
user may be used as the volume quantity where it is substantiated that the
metered water supply and waste quantities are approximately the same, or where
a measurable adjustment agreed to by the Director is made in the metered water
supply to determine the liquid waste quantity. Separate meters may be used to
subtract water which is not discharged to the POTW or is discharged to a sewer
other than the sampled location.
      C.   Samples shall be taken at a frequency and volume determined by the
WRA Director and shall be properly refrigerated and preserved in accordance
with Environmental Protection Agency approved methods. The sample shall be
composited in proportion to the flow for a representative 24-hour sample. A
time proportioned 24-hour sample may be used if flow proportioned sampling is
determined by the WRA Director to be impractical. Grab samples shall be used
where appropriate.
   3.   A user must inform the WRA Director prior to breaking a sampler seal,
used by the WRA to detect sample tampering, unless necessary to prevent loss of
life, personal injury, or severe property damage. A user shall not place
additional seals or locks upon a sampler which may be used by the WRA without
first obtaining approval from the WRA Director.
100.37   INSPECTION, SAMPLING, AND RECORD KEEPING AUTHORITY.
   Under this division, users shall be deemed to have given the following
authorities to the WRA and its operating contractor:
   1.   Users shall permit authorized representatives or agents of the WRA to
enter upon all properties and all parts of the premises, or upon properties of
users with Wastewater Discharge Permits, for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, records examination, records copying, or the performance of any of
their duties. This shall include the right to set up, on the user’s property,
such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance
monitoring, or metering operations as may be required in pursuance of the
implementation and enforcement of this chapter.
      A.   Where a user has security measures in force which would require
proper identification and clearance before entry into the premises, the user
shall make necessary arrangements in the security measures so that, upon
presentation of suitable identification, WRA or operating contractor personnel
will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
      B.   All users subject to any of the reporting requirements of this
chapter shall maintain copies of reports and records of all information as
required in 40 CFR 403.12(o) resulting from any monitoring activities required
by this chapter for a minimum of three years and shall make such records
available for inspection and copying by the WRA and its operating contractor.
This period of retention shall be extended until the completion of any
unresolved negotiation, hearing, or litigation involving a purported violation.
100.38   CONFIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, DATA, AND INFORMATION.
   1.   Except as provided in this section, documents, data, and information
obtained from user reports, questionnaires, permit applications, and
inspections pursuant to this division shall be made available to the public or
other governmental agencies without restriction. If the user specifically
requests and is able to demonstrate that the release of such information would
divulge information concerning processes or methods of production entitled to
protection under law as trade secrets of the user or would give advantage to
competitors and serve no public purpose, the WRA Director may determine that
such information should be kept confidential and not made available for public
examination, but such information shall be available to the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency or the Iowa Department of Natural Resources.
   2.   Decisions by the WRA Director to deny confidential status for
information may be appealed using the procedures in Section 100.39 of this
division. In determining whether information is confidential, the provisions of
Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa shall prevail.
   3.   Effluent data and enforcement actions by the WRA or its operating
contractor will not be considered confidential records of information.
100.39   APPEAL OF DENIAL OF CONFIDENTIAL STATUS.
   1.   Any person aggrieved by the WRA Director’s decision to release
information or data obtained as provided in Subsection 100.38(1) of this
division and who can demonstrate a direct and substantial interest in the
information or data sought to be kept confidential may appeal the WRA
Director’s decision. A request for appeal shall be filed in writing with the
WRA Director not less than five days after the WRA Director’s decision to deny
confidential status to such information or data. The appeal request shall
include a statement of the basis upon which the request for confidential status
is made, as well as the appealing party’s interest in the information or data
sought to be kept confidential. The WRA Director may request additional
information from the appealing party.
   2.   Based upon the information provided by the appealing party, the WRA
Director shall make a determination with respect to the confidentiality of the
information or data at issue. The WRA Director shall notify the parties, in
writing, of the WRA Director’s decision within seven days after receipt of the
appeal.
   3.   If still aggrieved by the WRA Director’s determination on appeal, a
party may file an action in County District Court, seeking a declaratory ruling
with respect to the confidentiality of such documents, data, and information,
or seeking an injunction to prevent the disclosure of same.
   4.   During the pendency of an appeal to the WRA Director, the documents,
data, or information at issue shall be kept confidential. However if, during
the pendency of such appeal, a request for examination or copying of such
documents, data, or information is made of the WRA or its operating contractor
pursuant to Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa, the WRA or its operating contractor
will notify the appealing party of such request for disclosure and will keep
confidential the requested documents, data, or information, pending action by
the appealing party to defend its confidentiality request. In that
notification, the appealing party requesting confidentiality will be given not
more than five calendar days within which to file suit in County District Court
seeking the entry of a declaratory order or injunction to protect and keep
confidential such documents, data, or information. If the appealing party fails
to initiate suit within the time requested, the WRA Director shall release the
documents, data, or information at issue for public examination.
   5.   If, during the pendency of such appeal, a lawsuit is initiated pursuant
to Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa seeking the release of such documents, data,
or information, the appealing party shall take action to defend its
confidentiality request in said lawsuit. If the appealing party fails to defend
its confidentiality request in said suit, the WRA Director shall release the
documents, data or information at issue for public examination.
100.40   RESERVED.
*** DIVISION 4. ENFORCEMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER REGULATIONS ***
100.41   PUBLIC NOTIFICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The WRA will annually publish, in the largest daily newspaper published in
the WRA community, a list of users who at any time during the previous 12
months were in significant noncompliance as defined in Section
100.42 of this division.
100.42   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   1.   Any violation of pretreatment requirements under this chapter (i.e.
including, but not limited to, those relating to limits, sampling, analysis,
reporting, meeting compliance schedules, and regulatory deadlines) is an
instance of noncompliance for which the user is liable for enforcement,
including penalties and injunctive relief. Instances of significant
noncompliance are user violations which meet one or more of the following
criteria:
      A.   Violations of wastewater discharge limits as follows:
         (1)   Chronic Violations. Sixty-six percent or more of the
measurements exceed the same daily maximum limit or the same average limit in a
six-month period (any magnitude of exceedance).
         (2)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) Violations. Thirty-three percent
or more of the measurements exceed the same daily maximum limit or the same
average limit by more than the TRC in a six-month period. (e.g., limit x TRC =
the point at which a violation becomes a TRC violation). There are two groups
of TRCs as follows:
 
Group I for conventional pollutants (BOD, TSS, FOG) TRC = 1.4
Group II for all other pollutants                   TRC = 1.2
 
         (3)   Any other violation of a Wastewater Discharge Permit limit
(average or daily maximum) that the WRA Director believes has caused, alone or
in combination with other discharges, interference, including slug loads, or
pass through or which endangers the health of City, Sanitary District, WRA, or
operating contractor personnel or the public.
         (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health or welfare or to the environment and has resulted
in the WRA’s exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge.
      B.   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
Wastewater Discharge Permit or enforcement order, for starting construction,
completing construction, or attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after
the schedule date.
      C.   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedules, self-monitoring
data, or any other report required by the WRA within 45 days from the due date.
      D.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
      E.   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of Best Management Practices, that the WRA Director considers to be
significant.
   2.   When a user is in significant noncompliance, the WRA Director is
directed to:
      A.   Report the information to the Iowa Department of Natural Resources
as part of the annual pretreatment performance summary of permitted user
noncompliance.
      B.   Include the user in the annual public notification according to
Section 100.41 of this division.
      C.   Address significant noncompliance through appropriate enforcement
actions or document in a timely manner the reasons for withholding enforcement.
100.43   ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS.
   1.   The WRA Director may issue a written notice to the user giving the
specific nature of violations which shall include the frequency, magnitude, and
impact of the violation upon the POTW.
   The notice may also include the following:
      A.   An order requiring a plan of action for preventing reoccurrence of
the violation.
      B.   An order requiring specific action for accomplishing remediation.
      C.   An order requiring the user to respond in writing within 30 days.
   2.   The WRA Director is empowered to enter into consent orders, assurances
of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement
with the user responsible for any noncompliance. Such orders will include
specific action to be taken by the user to correct noncompliance within a time
period specified by the order.
   3.   The WRA Director may issue enforceable orders or schedules to require
compliance with pretreatment standards including appropriate interim limits.
Such orders and schedules may be incorporated as a revision to an existing
Wastewater Discharge Permit and shall not require the consent of the user.
100.44   ACTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   1.   Where there has been noncompliance with any section of this chapter,
the WRA Director may request the WRA operating contractor’s attorney, or the
attorney retained by the WRA for that purpose, to bring an action in equity or
at law to seek the issuance of a preliminary or permanent injunction, or both,
or such other relief as may be appropriate, to compel the user’s compliance
with this chapter.
   2.   In addition to other remedies provided under this section or other
sections of this chapter, in any action brought at the request of the WRA
Director to enforce this chapter, the WRA operating contractor’s attorney, or
the attorney retained by the WRA, is authorized to seek to recover all actual
damages suffered by the City, Sanitary District, or the WRA, including all
actual damages and losses related to costs of repair and remediation of the
POTW, costs of investigation and administration reasonably related to any
particular violation, and attorneys’ fees.
100.45   CIVIL PENALTIES.
   1.   Each violation of any section of this chapter or of a permit issued
under this chapter is declared to be a municipal infraction. Each day that a
violation of a section of this chapter continues, and each day that a violation
of a permit issued under this chapter continues, shall be considered a separate
municipal infraction.
   2.   Any person who knowingly makes a false statement, representation, or
certification in any application, record, report, plan, or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter or a Wastewater Discharge
Permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this chapter, commits a municipal
infraction punishable by a civil penalty as provided in Subsection 4 hereof.
   3.   Any person who fails to perform an act required by the provisions of
this chapter, or who commits an act prohibited by the provisions of this
chapter, commits an environmental violation and shall be guilty of a municipal
infraction, punishable by a civil penalty. Violation of a pretreatment standard
or requirement referred to in 40 CFR 403.8 is an environmental violation
punishable by a civil penalty as hereafter provided in Subsection 4 hereof.
   4.   Whenever in this division any act is prohibited and is declared to be a
municipal infraction or whenever in in this division the doing of any act is
required and the failure to do that act is declared to be a municipal
infraction, the violation of any such provision shall be punishable by a civil
penalty of not more than $750.00 for each violation or, if the infraction is a
repeat offense, $1,000.00 for each repeat offense. However, a municipal
infraction which is classified as an environmental violation or which arises
from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or requirement referred to in
40 CFR 403.8, by an industrial user may be punishable by a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000.00 for each day a violation exists or continues. Each day a
violation of a provision of this division continues shall be considered a
separate municipal infraction.
100.46   PERFORMANCE AND PAYMENT BONDS.
   1.   The WRA Director may decline to reissue a permit to any user who has
failed to comply with this chapter, or any order or previous permit issued
under this chapter unless such user first files a satisfactory bond payable to
the WRA in a sum not to exceed the value determined by the WRA Director to be
necessary to achieve compliance, giving due consideration to the number and
magnitude of previous violations, potential need for remediation, and stating
the reasons which support the amount of bond in a written order directed to the
user, but in no case shall the bond be required to be greater than $100,000.00.
The user shall use a bond form prescribed by the WRA.
   2.   The WRA Director may require any user, including any permitted or non-
permitted waste generator which sends its wastewater by truck to the WRF, to
obtain a bond payable to the WRA with reasonable surety in a penal sum which
will adequately cover treatment costs, surcharges, fees, or any other charges
associated with discharge of wastewater to the POTW in the amount as listed in
Section 100.75. The user shall use a bond form prescribed by the WRA.
100.47   REVOCATION OF DISCHARGE PERMIT; TERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE.
   1.   Grounds for Revocation of Discharge Permit or for Termination of Sewer
Service. Any user who violates this chapter, any condition of its Wastewater
Discharge Permit, or any of the following is subject to having its discharge
permit revoked or its sewer service terminated in accordance with the
procedures of this section:
      A.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge.
      B.   Failure of the user to report substantial changes in process
activity or in volume or character of pollutants being discharged into the POTW
at least 90 days prior to such change.
      C.   Tampering with monitoring equipment.
      D.   Refusal to allow reasonable access by WRA or operating contractor
personnel to the user’s premises for the purpose of inspection, monitoring, or
sampling.
      E.   Violation of permit conditions.
      F.   Failure to report an upset, failure, or bypass of the user’s
pretreatment facilities.
      G.   Failure to pay fines, fees, surcharges, or sewer user charges.
      H.   Failure to follow enforcement orders or compliance schedules.
      I.   Failure to correct a condition that impedes or alters the WRA’s
ability to monitor the user’s discharge or has the potential to cause
interference or pass through.
      J.   Failure to obtain a Wastewater Discharge Permit as required by this
chapter after notification by the WRA Director that such permit is required.
      K.   Failure to pay actual costs for negligent damage, or actual costs
and penalties charged for grossly negligent or intentional damage, to the POTW
not addressed elsewhere in this chapter.
   2.   Procedure for Revocation of Discharge Permit and for Termination of
Sewer Service. The procedure for revocation of a discharge permit and
termination of sewer service shall be as follows:
      A.   Any permit issued to a user pursuant to this chapter may be revoked,
and sewer service terminated, by written order of the WRA Director, specifying
the grounds for such revocation and termination as outlined in Subsection 1 of
this section, which order shall not take effect until hearing thereon as
hereafter provided. Upon determining that grounds exist for an order to revoke
a user’s discharge permit and terminate sewer service, the WRA Director shall
cause a notice of hearing to be prepared, specifying the violations of
Subsection 1 of this section which are deemed to have occurred, and the time,
date, and place that such hearing will be held. The notice shall be sent to the
user by regular mail addressed to the user’s address listed on the Wastewater
Discharge Permit a minimum of 10 days prior to the date set for hearing and
shall be deemed delivered when placed in the mail.
      B.   Sewer service may be terminated by written order of the WRA
Director, specifying the grounds for such revocation and termination as
outlined in Subsection 1(J) of this section, which order shall not take effect
until hearing thereon as hereafter provided. Upon determining that grounds
exist for an order to terminate sewer service, the WRA Director shall cause a
notice of hearing to be prepared, specifying the violation of Subsection 1(J)
of this section, which is deemed to have occurred, and the time, date, and
place that such hearing will be held. The notice shall be sent to the user by
regular mail addressed to the user’s address a minimum of 10 days prior to the
date set for hearing and shall be deemed delivered when placed in the mail.
      C.   If, after such a hearing, the WRA Director makes a finding based on
substantial evidence that violations under Subsection 1 of this section have
occurred as alleged, the Director may issue an order immediately revoking the
permit, if a permit had previously been issued, and terminating sewer service
to the user’s premises. The determination to revoke such permit and terminate
service, shall be in the discretion of WRA Director and shall be dependent upon
the circumstances surrounding the user’s violations of Subsection 1 of this
section and the severity of those violations. If the user does not appear for
the hearing, the WRA Director shall issue the order revoking the discharge
permit or terminating sewer service, which shall take effect immediately.
      D.   The decision and order of the WRA Director to revoke the permit of a
user may be appealed to the WRA Appeal Committee. Such appeal request shall be
in writing, shall include the grounds for appeal including any factual findings
which are disputed, and shall be delivered to WRA not less than 10 days after
the Director’s entry of the order of revocation of permit or termination of
sewer service. Such appeal request shall be considered delivered when placed in
the mail, return receipt requested, addressed to:
WRA Appeal Committee
% Des Moines Metropolitan Wastewater Reclamation Authority
3000 Vandalia Road
Des Moines, IA 50317
   The Chair of the Appeal Committee shall schedule the appeal and shall cause
notice of the time, date, and place of the hearing to be mailed to the
appealing user. Such appeal shall be decided by majority vote of the Appeal
Committee. If the Appeal Committee affirms the order of the WRA Director
revoking the permit or terminating sewer service, the Appeal Committee shall so
state and order in its written decision.
      E.   A user whose permit has been revoked shall not be eligible for
another permit until 30 days after the violating conditions have been corrected
to the satisfaction of the WRA Director.
      F.   Upon determination by the WRA Director that the user’s sewer service
connection to the POTW be terminated, the Director’s written order shall be
sent to the City Public Works Department who shall cause the user’s connection
to the sewer to be severed or plugged. The manner of severance and procedure
for disconnection shall be determined by the City Public Works Department. Upon
completion of the disconnection, the City Public Works Department shall certify
to the WRA Director the City’s cost to disconnect the user’s sewer service.
Upon receipt of such certification of costs, the WRA Director shall forward to
the user whose service was disconnected, by registered mail return receipt
requested, certified mail, or personal service a bill for the cost of making
the disconnection, including all costs for labor and materials, and a service
charge of $500.00 for WRA supervision.
      G.   Any building at which sewer service is disconnected as herein
provided shall be inspected by the City Building Official and, if appropriate,
shall be red-tagged as unfit for human occupancy.
100.48   RESERVED.
100.49   REINSTATEMENT OF SERVICE.
   If service is severed pursuant to this division, the service may be
reinstated in the following manner:
   1.   Upon payment to the WRA of any delinquency in full, supervision fee of
$500.00, and an inspection by the WRA Director to determine whether the
original cause for termination has been corrected, the WRA will issue a permit
for reconnection of the building service line to the POTW.
   Such reconnection costs, plus inspection fees for the City in accordance
with this Code, shall be at the sole expense of the user.
   2.   Upon reconnection and payment of all costs described in Subsection 1 of
this section, the City or Sanitary District, through its agents, shall remove
the red tag from the building, and the building shall, so far as the City or
Sanitary District is concerned, be fit for human occupancy.
100.50   EMERGENCY DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   1.   Conditions for Immediate Disconnection of Service. The WRA Director
may, after informal notice, suspend the Wastewater Discharge Permit of, and
sewer service to, a user whenever such suspension is necessary in order to stop
an actual or threatened discharge presenting or causing an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, the POTW, or the
environment.
   2.   Procedure for Immediate Disconnection. The procedure for immediate
disconnection shall be as follows:
      A.   When the WRA Director determines that a discharge as described in
Subsection 1 of this section exists, an oral order shall be issued, followed
immediately by a written order, to the user stating the problem and requiring
immediate cessation of the discharge. A user orally notified of a suspension of
its Wastewater Permit or sewer service shall immediately stop or eliminate all
discharges. If a user fails to immediately and voluntarily comply with the
suspension order, the WRA Director shall take immediate action to eliminate the
discharge, including disconnection from the POTW.
   Methods of informal notice to a user shall include, but not be limited, any
of the following: personal conversations between user and personnel or the WRA
or its operating contractor, telephone calls, letters, hand-delivered messages,
or notices posted at the user’s premises or point of discharge.
      B.   A user responsible, in whole or in part, for imminent endangerment
shall submit to the WRA Director, prior to the hearing described in Subsection
100.47(2) of this division, a detailed written report describing the causes of
the endangerment and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence.
100.51   ELIMINATION OF DISCHARGE; REINSTATEMENT OF PERMIT.
   A user notified by the WRA Director of revocation of its discharge permit or
disconnection of its sewer service under Section
100.47 or Section
100.50 of this division shall immediately cease discharging wastewater to the
POTW.
   If the user fails to comply voluntarily with the revocation or disconnection
order, the City or Sanitary District shall take such steps as are deemed
necessary by the WRA, including immediate severance of the sewer connection.
The WRA Director shall reinstate the Wastewater Discharge Permit or the sewer
service upon proof of the elimination of the non-complying discharge.
100.52   ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   1.   In addition to remedies available to the WRA set forth elsewhere in
this chapter, if the WRA is fined by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources
or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for violations of the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit for the WRF, or for violations of
water quality standards as the result of a discharge of pollutants by an
identifiable user, the fine, and all legal, sampling, analytical testing costs,
and any other related costs, shall be charged to the responsible user. Such
charge shall be in addition to any other remedies the WRA may have under this
chapter at law or in equity.
   2.   If the discharge from any user results in a deposit, obstruction,
damage, or other impairment to the POTW, the user shall become liable to the
City or Sanitary District or the WRA for any expense, loss, or damage caused by
the violations or discharge. The WRA may add to the user’s charges and fees the
costs incurred by the WRA and by the City or Sanitary District for any
cleaning, repair, or replacement work caused by the violations or discharge.
   3.   The remedies provided in this chapter shall not be exclusive, and the
WRA may seek whatever other remedies are authorized by statute, at law or in
equity against any persons violating this chapter.
   4.   In addition to any other remedies provided in this chapter, the City or
the Sanitary District or the WRA may initiate an action, either in law or in
equity, to obtain an injunction against further violations of this chapter and
for judgment for all costs incurred by the City, Sanitary District, or the WRA
occasioned by the user’s violation of any requirements of this chapter.
100.53   NOTICES TO THE WRA, THE WRA BOARD, THE WRA DIRECTOR, OR THE WRA
STEERING COMMITTEE.
   Notices which are required to be given or which may be given to the WRA, the
WRA Board, the WRA Director, or the WRA Appeal Committee, as provided in this
chapter, shall be mailed to such entity, body, or person at the following
address:
   Des Moines Metropolitan Wastewater Reclamation Authority
   Des Moines Wastewater Reclamation Facility
   3000 Vandalia Road
   Des Moines, IA 50317
100.54   RESERVED.
*** DIVISION 5. REGULATIONS OF FAT, OIL, AND GREASE DISCHARGE BY FOOD SERVICE
ESTABLISHMENTS ***
100.55   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section shall be to aid in the prevention of sanitary
sewer blockages and obstructions from contribution and accumulation of fat,
oil, and grease (FOG) into the POTW.
   Such discharges from commercial kitchens, restaurants, food processing
facilities, and all other establishments, where fat, oil, and grease of
vegetable or animal origin are discharged, directly or indirectly, into the
POTW, can contribute to line blockages or spills in violation of Title 40, Code
of Federal Regulations 40 CFR, Part 403.
100.56   DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions found in Section
100.01 shall apply to the provisions of this division, provided, however, that
the following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this division, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   1.   “Best Management Practices” or “BMPs” means and includes schedules of
activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other
management practices to prevent or reduce the pollution of waters of the State.
For purposes of this division, “best management practices” include procedures
and practices that reduce the discharge of FOG to the building sewer, to the
City sanitary sewer system, and to the POTW.
   2.   “Design liquid depth” means the maximum depth of liquid when the tank
is filled with water.
   3.   “Effective date” means the date set forth in Section
100.57 upon which the regulatory provisions of this division take place.
   4.   “Food Service Establishment” or “FSE” means an operation or enterprise
that stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends, or otherwise provides food for
human consumption. Such facilities may include, but are not limited to, those
that process meat or other food ingredients as an intermediate step or for
final human consumption, food service operations in a summer camp, residential
substance abuse treatment facility, halfway house, correctional facility,
school, restaurant, commercial kitchen, caterer, church, hotel, bars, hospital,
prison, care institution, or similar facility.
   5.   “Grease interceptor” means a tank that serves one or more fixtures and
is remotely located. Grease interceptors include, but are not limited to, tanks
that capture wastewater from dishwashers, garbage disposals, floor drains, pot
and pan sinks, and trenches as allowed by local plumbing codes. For purposes of
this chapter, a grease interceptor is a multi-compartment tank located
underground outside of a building that reduces the amount of FOG in wastewater
prior to its discharge into the POTW.
   6.   “Grease trap” means a device designed to retain grease from one to a
maximum of four fixtures. Not all grease traps are approved by the manufacturer
for use on heated water (e.g., dishwasher) or in-line to a waste disposal unit
(e.g., garbage disposal and grinders). For purposes of this chapter, a grease
trap is a small device located within a building.
   7.   “Minimum design capability” means the design features of a grease
interceptor and its ability or volume required to effectively intercept and
retain greases from grease-laden wastewaters discharged to the POTW.
   8.   “Non-routine inspection” means an impromptu, unscheduled inspection of
an FSE made without prior notification or arrangement.
   9.   “Routine inspection” means an inspection of an FSE which is scheduled
in advance or according to a pre-arranged schedule.
   10.   “User” as used in this division has the same meaning as the definition
in Section 100.01 but also includes persons who discharge wastewater to the
POTW from mobile sources, such as mobile food vendors.
100.57   EFFECTIVE DATE OF FOG REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this division shall be effective upon passage by the
Council and publication.
100.58   GREASE INTERCEPTOR INSTALLATION REQUIRED AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The owner of a building or facility in which an FSE is located, and the
owner or operator of an FSE shall be required to install an approved grease
interceptor, and to thereafter operate and maintain same as provided in this
division.
100.59   EXEMPTION FROM GREASE INTERCEPTOR INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS FOR
EXISTING FACILITIES.
   The requirements of Section 100.58 shall not apply to that portion of a
building or facility within which an FSE is in existence on the effective date
if:
   1.   The FSE has an existing grease interceptor or grease trap in place as
of the effective date and provided that:
      A.   The owner or occupant of the FSE continues to use the interceptor or
trap;
      B.   The interceptor or trap is of sufficient capacity and design; and
      C.   The interceptor or trap is operated and maintained so as to comply
with FOG discharge limits.
   2.   Any repair, remodeling, or renovation of the wastewater plumbing system
in the existing FSE involves only:
      A.   The repair of leaks or the clearing of stoppages in drains, soil,
waste, or vent piping; or
      B.   The removal and reinstallation of a sink, toilet, or hot water
heater; provided that such work does not involve replacement, rearrangement, or
moving of wastewater pipes, floor sinks, drainage fixtures, or grease traps;
and
   3.   None of the following conditions are present:
      A.   A building or facility exists on the effective date and is
thereafter expanded or renovated, or a portion thereof, to include an FSE where
such FSE did not previously exist; or
      B.   An FSE exists on the effective date within a building or facility,
or portion of a building or facility, and application is thereafter made for a
building permit for such building or facility with valuation of $50,000.00 or
more within a 12-month period; or
      C.   A building or facility, or portion thereof, that contained an FSE on
the effective date, but in which an FSE ceases to operate for one year or more,
as determined by Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals, Food and Consumer
Safety Bureau records.
100.60   COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES.
   1.   After the effective date, any permitted construction under Section
100.58 shall be deemed compliant upon issuance of a Certificate of Compliance
or Certificate of Occupancy for such construction by the City Building Official
or designee.
   2.   An FSE shall be deemed compliant, unless the WRA Director or local
building official or designee determines that an existing grease trap or grease
interceptor is incapable of adequately retaining FOG.
   In such cases, the Director may order the FSE to install an adequate grease
interceptor within a specified time period if:
      A.   The FSE is found to contribute FOG in quantities above FOG discharge
limits; or
      B.   The FSE discharges necessitate increased maintenance on the publicly
owned treatment works (POTW) in order to keep stoppages from occurring therein;
or
      C.   The FSE’s discharge to the POTW is at any time determined to exceed
400 mg/l total FOG.
   3.   An order directing an existing FSE, or the owner or operator of the
FSE, or the owner of the building or facility in which the FSE is located to
install a grease interceptor shall be in writing from the WRA Director in the
form of a notice of violation including a corrective action order, as provided
in Section 100.67 of this division.
   4.   FSEs or owners of buildings or facilities within which an FSE is
located which are unable to install or replace a grease interceptor due to
exceptional physical constraints or economic hardship may appeal to the WRA
Director for approval of an alternative grease control technology by requesting
a hearing in accordance with the provisions of this division. Such requests
shall be submitted in writing and shall include detailed descriptions of the
FSE’s physical or financial constraints and the alternative grease control
technology which it proposes to install and utilize.
      A.   In order to demonstrate exceptional economic hardship, the owner or
operator of the FSE shall submit to the WRA Director balance sheets and profit
and loss statements for FSE for the preceding three years. A new FSE shall
submit profit or loss projections or a detailed business plan with projections
for 24 months. Each request shall be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
      B.   Notwithstanding approval of alternative grease control technology,
when the WRA Director determines that such alternative is not performing
adequately, the FSE or owner of the building or facility in which the FSE is
located shall be required to take additional grease control measures, which may
include the installation of a grease interceptor.
      C.   In order to demonstrate exceptional physical site constraints
preventing the installation of a grease interceptor, the owner or operator of
the FSE or owner of the building or facility in which the FSE is located shall
submit to the WRA Director documentation and plats showing the location of City
sanitary sewer and any private easements in relation to the building sewer for
the building housing the FSE, and showing available space inside or outside the
building and drawings of existing plumbing at or in a site that uses common
plumbing for all services at that site.
      D.   An FSE that is given an exemption from installing a properly sized
grease interceptor is prohibited from installing or using a dishwasher or
garbage disposal without approval of the Director and must comply with the
conditions of such approval, if any.
100.61   INSTALLATION OF GREASE INTERCEPTORS AND GREASE TRAPS.
   Grease interceptors and grease traps, when required, shall be installed as
follows:
   1.   Grease interceptors and grease traps shall be installed at the expense
of the owner or operator of the FSE or owner of the building or facility in
which the FSE is located which is contributing wastewater to the POTW.
   2.   All wastewater streams containing FOG or reasonably likely to contain
FOG within FSEs or other FOG generating operations shall be directed into one
or more appropriately sized grease interceptor before discharge to the POTW.
   Grease interceptors shall be either sized by adding the peak design flow
rates for all fixtures leading to the grease interceptor and allowing a minimum
retention time of 30 minutes or as follows:
Grease Interceptor Sizing
Grease Interceptor Sizing
1. Peak meals per hour
 a. Seating capacity of FSE                                      _________
 b. Occupancy of FSE                                             _________*
 c. Seating or occupancy x meal factor of 1.3 (45-minute meal) or 1.0
 (intermittent use FSEs) = Peak meals per hour
 * Church: include all areas used for meal service
 * Assisted living or nursing facility: equal to maximum number of
 residents (per State license)
2. Waste flow rate, gallons of flow
 a. Commercial, equipped kitchen with dishwasher and one garbage 7
 disposal*
 b. Commercial, equipped kitchen with dishwasher, no garbage     6
 disposal
 c. Commercial, equipped kitchen with no dishwasher, one garbage 6
 disposal*
 d. Commercial, equipped kitchen with no dishwasher, no garbage  5
 disposal
 e. Single service kitchen**                                     2
 * Each additional garbage disposal, add one gallon
 ** Single service kitchen = no garbage disposal, no dishwasher, and all
 service is single use
3. Retention time, hours
 a. Commercial kitchen                                           2.5
 b. Single service kitchen                                       1.5
4. Storage factor
 a. Commercial kitchen up to eight hours of operation            1
 b. Commercial kitchen up to 12 hours of operation               1.5
 c. Commercial kitchen up to 16 hours of operation               2
 d. Commercial kitchen up to 20 hours of operation               2.5
 e. Commercial kitchen up to 24 hours of operation               3
 f. Single service kitchen                                       1.5
Peak meals per hour X Water flow rate X Retention time X Storage factor =
Calculated interceptor size
 
   3.   Concrete grease interceptors, whether precast or poured in place, shall
be designed and manufactured in accordance with ASTM C 1613-08 Standard
Specification for Precast Concrete Grease Interceptor Tanks or IAPMO/ANSI Z1001
Grease Interceptors and shall be installed in accordance with the codes adopted
by the jurisdiction in which the FSE is located. Where no code is adopted, the
construction and installation shall be in accordance with the State Plumbing
Code and this division. Grease interceptors using materials other than concrete
require approval by the Director, and shall comply with the conditions of such
approval, if any.
   4.   The Building Official or other designated official of the governmental
subdivision within which the FSE is located shall inspect each grease
interceptor installation made pursuant to this division, shall review all
relevant information regarding the rated performance of the grease interceptor,
and the building plan and facility site plan for the building and site where
the grease interceptor has been installed, and shall approve such grease
interceptor installation upon determination that the grease interceptor meets
all applicable standards and requirements.
   5.   Grease interceptors shall have a minimum capacity of 1,000 gallons and
shall not exceed 5,000 gallons for a single unit. Where a capacity greater than
5,000 gallons is required, several smaller units shall be installed in series,
however the capacity shall not exceed 10,000 gallons for any single series of
interceptors without approval of the Director.
   6.   Grease interceptors shall be installed outside the building housing the
FSE and below surface grade, and shall have access manholes, with a minimum
diameter of 24 inches, over each chamber and sanitary tee. Access manholes
shall extend from the grease interceptor to at least the finished surface grade
and be designed and maintained to prevent storm or surface water inflow and
groundwater infiltration. The manholes shall also have readily removable covers
to facilitate inspection and grease removal.
   7.   Sewer lines which are not grease laden, which are not likely to contain
FOG, or which contain sanitary wastes shall not be connected to a grease
interceptor.
   8.   Grease interceptors shall be equipped with an accessible discharge
sampling port with a minimum six-inch diameter, which shall extend from the
grease interceptor to at least the finished surface grade.
   9.   Where grease interceptors are shared by more than one FSE, the building
owner shall be the responsible party for record keeping and cleaning of the
interceptor.
100.62   OPERATION, MAINTENANCE, AND CLEANING OF GREASE INTERCEPTORS AND GREASE
TRAPS AND GREASE HAULER CERTIFICATION.
   1.   The owner or operator of an FSE which is required to pass wastewater
through a grease interceptor or trap shall operate and maintain the grease
interceptor or trap so that wastewater exiting the grease interceptor or trap
shall not exceed 400 milligrams per liter of FOG.
   2.   The owner or operator of the FSE shall cause the grease interceptor or
trap to be cleaned as hereinafter required when FOG and solids reach 25 percent
of the design liquid level of the grease interceptor or trap, or sooner, if
necessary, to prevent carry-over of FOG from the grease interceptor or trap
into the City sanitary sewer system. Interceptors and traps shall be cleaned at
three-month intervals or less. A longer cleaning interval must be approved by
the WRA Director. The owner or operator of the FSE shall employ a waste hauler
licensed by the WRA pursuant to Division 6 of this chapter to clean the grease
interceptor or trap, provided that the waste hauler personnel performing the
cleaning has a current grease hauler certification from the WRA indicating
satisfactory completion of the course of training offered by the WRA on the
cleaning of grease interceptors and traps.
   3.   Any person who cleans a grease interceptor or trap shall do so in
accordance with the following procedures and requirements. The person cleaning
the grease interceptor or trap shall:
      A.   Completely empty and remove the contents (liquids and sludge) of all
vaults of the grease interceptor or trap and remove the grease mat and
scrapings from the interior walls. As part of each cleaning of a grease
interceptor or trap, the licensed waste hauler employed by the FSE owner or
operator shall perform the following maintenance activities:
         (1)   Check that the sanitary “tees” on the inlet and outlet sides of
the grease interceptor are not obstructed, loose, or missing.
         (2)   Verify that the baffle is secure and in place.
         (3)   Inspect the grease interceptor or trap for any cracks or other
defects.
         (4)   Check that lids are securely and properly seated after
completion of cleaning.
      B.   Not deposit waste and wastewater removed from a grease interceptor
or trap back into the grease interceptor or trap from which the waste or
wastewater was removed, or into any other grease interceptor or trap or
drainage fixture connected to the sanitary sewer, for the purpose of reducing
the volume of waste and wastewater to be disposed of.
      C.   Not introduce enzymes, emulsifying chemicals, hot water, or other
agents into a grease interceptor or trap to dissolve or emulsify grease or as a
grease abatement method. Introduction of bacteria as a grease degradation agent
is permitted with prior written approval by the WRA Director.
      D.   Dispose of waste and wastewater removed from a grease interceptor or
trap at the WRF or at a facility approved for disposal of such waste by the WRA
Director. Waste and wastewater removed from a grease interceptor or trap shall
not be discharged to any private sanitary or storm sewer or to the City
sanitary or storm sewer system. The waste hauler shall provide a copy of the
disposal receipt for all waste and wastewater removed from a grease interceptor
or trap to the owner or operator of the FSE.
      E.   Not use an automatic grease removal system to clean a grease
interceptor without prior written approval of the WRA Director, and if, the use
of an automatic grease removal system is approved, shall operate same in a
manner that the grease wastewater discharge limit, as measured from the
system’s outlet, is consistently achieved.
   4.   The WRA Director may make exceptions to the above requirements or may
approve alternative operational requirements or cleaning and maintenance
methods, provided that such exceptions or approvals shall be made in writing by
the WRA Director.
   5.   The WRA Director may issue a Grease Hauler Certification upon
satisfactory completion of the course of training offered by the WRA on the
proper maintenance and cleaning of grease interceptors and traps, disposal
procedures, and record keeping. Such certification shall be for a period of
five years and shall be in effect for the person receiving such training.
Grease haulers certified by the WRA shall be subject to a grease interceptor
cleanout inspection by WRA personnel, not less than once every two years, for
purposes of the hauler demonstrating its compliance with requirements in this
section. Such inspections shall be scheduled at a time which coincides with
normal working hours for WRA personnel, shall involve all individuals employed
by the same company who have been issued a Grease Hauler Certification by the
WRA, and shall be conducted at an FSE within the WRA service area. Failure to
follow WRA’s cleanout procedures or other requirements of this section may
result in fines, additional scheduled cleanout inspections, and loss of Grease
Hauler Certification status, individually or company-wide, with the WRA.
100.63   RECORDS AND RECORD KEEPING.
   1.   Required Records. The owner or operator of an FSE which is required to
pass wastewater through a grease interceptor or trap shall maintain a written
record of grease interceptor or trap maintenance, including a log showing the
dates upon which the grease interceptor or trap was inspected and the estimated
amount of FOG present in the grease interceptor or trap at each inspection, the
date upon which waste and wastewater was removed from the grease interceptor or
trap and disposed of, and the location and means of such disposal of waste and
wastewater, and the name and employer or the person or persons performing each
of said tasks. The log shall further include a record of the placement of any
approved or unapproved additive into the grease interceptor, grease trap, or
building sewer on a constant, regular, or scheduled basis, including the type
and amount of additive placed on each such occasion. Only additives approved by
the WRA Director pursuant to Section 100.62(3)(C) may be used in a grease
interceptor.
   2.   Record Keeping. The log shall at all times be kept and maintained on a
day-to-day basis, so as to show a record of waste and wastewater removal, waste
and wastewater disposal, and approved additive placement for a continuous
period of three years. All such records shall be kept secure at the premises of
the FSE for a continuous period of three years and shall be made available for
non-routine inspection by the City, the Sanitary District, the WRA and its
operating contractor, or the employees and agents of any of them at any time
during normal business hours.
100.64   INSPECTION OF GREASE INTERCEPTORS AND RELATED SEWERS AND EQUIPMENT.
   The owner or operator of an FSE shall:
   1.   Provide, operate, and maintain, at its expense, safe and accessible
monitoring facilities (such as a suitable manhole), and shall make such
monitoring facilities available for inspection, for routine cleanouts by the
owner or operator’s licensed grease hauler, and for sampling and flow
measurement of the building sewer or internal drainage systems. There shall be
ample room in or near such monitoring facility to allow for proper inspection,
accurate sampling, and preparation of samples for analysis. The monitoring
facilities shall be maintained such that the devices are readily and
immediately accessible for inspections and cleanouts being free of coverings,
building materials, pavements, or any other obstructions.
   2.   Allow personnel authorized by the WRA Director or by the City Building
Official or designee, bearing proper credentials and identification, to enter
upon or into any building, facility, or property housing an FSE at any
reasonable time and without prior notification, for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, testing, or record review, in accordance
with this division.
   3.   Upon request by the WRA Director’s authorized representative, open any
grease interceptor or grease trap for the purpose of confirming that
maintenance frequency is appropriate, that all necessary parts of the
installation are in place including, but not limited to, baffles, and effluent
tees, and that all grease interceptors, traps, and related equipment and piping
is maintained in efficient operating condition.
   4.   Accommodate compliance inspections and sampling events by the
authorized representatives of the WRA Director or of the City Building
Official. Staff may conduct routine inspections and sampling events of any food
service establishment. Non-routine inspection and sampling events shall occur
more frequently when there is a history of non-compliance with this division
and when blockages occur in the City’s sanitary sewer system downstream of the
FSE.
100.65   TRIP CHARGES.
   The fees for inspection of an FSE shall be as provided in Section
100.21 and shall be paid within 30 days of the date of the invoice for such
fees. A trip charge of $50.00, as referenced in Section
100.21(1)(E), shall be assessed in conjunction with the violation of any
requirement of Section
100.64 which results in the need for WRA personnel to reschedule such
inspection of grease interceptor or trap or food service establishment, and
shall be paid within 30 days of the date of the invoice for such charge.
100.66   ENFORCEMENT.
   The WRA Director is authorized to enforce this division as hereinafter
provided. The City Building Official or designee, or such other governmental
official hereafter designated by the WRA, is also authorized to enforce this
division.
100.67   NOTICE OF VIOLATION - ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES - CORRECTIVE ACTION
ORDER.
   1.   The Director, or such other designated officers or officials with
enforcement authority as provided in Section 100.66, are authorized to issue a
notice of violation imposing an administrative penalty upon any person who
fails to perform an act required by this division or who commits an act
prohibited by this division. Such notice may include a corrective action order
requiring the user to take one or more of the following corrective actions
within 30 days:
      A.   Conform to best management practices;
      B.   Submit copies of the grease interceptor or trap maintenance log;
      C.   Develop, submit, and implement a FOG compliance plan to be approved
by the Director or designated enforcement official; or
      D.   Install a compliant grease interceptor.
   2.   The administrative penalty for such violations shall be as provided in
the schedule of administrative penalties adopted by the Council by resolution.
   3.   Notice of violation, with the applicable penalty for such violation
noted thereon, shall be issued to and served upon the violator. Service of the
notice may be by regular mail or by delivery in person.
   4.   Penalties assessed pursuant to notice of violation shall be paid by the
violator in full as directed in the notice within 30 days of its issuance.
   5.   The administrative penalties set out in the schedule of administrative
penalties shall be charged in lieu of the fines and penalties provided for in
Section 100.68, unless the violator refuses to correct the violation and pay
the scheduled administrative penalty, or the WRA Director determines that
immediate enforcement action by misdemeanor or municipal infraction prosecution
is, in view of the particular circumstances of the case, necessary to achieve
compliance with the requirements of this chapter. A record of all violations,
administrative penalties charged, or other enforcement actions taken shall be
maintained by the WRA for a period of three years.
100.68   PENALTIES.
   1.   Any person who fails to perform an act required by this division or who
commits an act prohibited by this division shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by fine or imprisonment or shall be guilty of a municipal infraction
punishable by a civil penalty.
   2.   Any person who fails to comply with a pretreatment standard applicable
to an FSE shall be guilty of a municipal infraction punishable by a civil
penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each day the violation exists or
continues, as provided by Section 364.22 or 331.307 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   When enforcement is sought through a municipal infraction proceeding,
the Director, or such other designated officers or officials with enforcement
authority as provided in Section 100.66, may enter into consent orders,
assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an
agreement with the user responsible for noncompliance. Such orders will include
specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a
time period specified by the order.
100.69   ORDER TO CEASE OPERATION OF FSE.
   1.   Where a violation of this division has not been timely corrected, and
results in or threatens interference or pass through as herein defined, the WRA
Director, or such other designated officers or officials with enforcement
authority as provided in Section
100.66, shall have the authority to issue an order in writing to the owner or
operator of the FSE, ordering such person or persons to cease and desist from
further operation of the FSE and from further discharge of wastewater to the
sanitary sewer system. The order shall be delivered by personal service unless
the owner or operator cannot be found within the City or Sanitary District, in
which event notice shall be by ordinary mail addressed to the owner’s or
operator’s last known address and by posting a copy of the notice in a
conspicuous place upon the premises of the FSE.
   2.   Operation of the FSE shall cease on the date stated in the order and
shall not recommence without the prior written approval of the WRA Director.
   3.   The applicant may make a written request to the director for a
reconsideration and hearing on the cease-and-desist order within 10 days from
the issuance of the order, provided, however, that operation of the FSE shall
cease pending the outcome of the hearing.
   4.   The owner’s or operator’s request for hearing shall identify the
appealing party, include the address of the person requesting the hearing and
to which all further notices shall be mailed or served, and shall state the
basis for the appeal.
   5.   The hearing shall be scheduled to be held as soon as practicable and no
later than 14 days after the request for hearing was filed with the WRA
Director. The person requesting the hearing shall be notified in writing or by
telephone of the date and place of such hearing at least three days in advance
thereof. At such hearing the Director and the person requesting the hearing may
be represented by counsel, examine witnesses, and present evidence as
necessary.
   6.   The determination by the Director that the violation occurred shall be
considered a final administrative decision, unless appealed to the WRA.
100.70   APPEAL OF CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDER OR CEASE AND DESIST ORDER.
   1.   Any person aggrieved by a corrective action order or a cease-and-desist
order issued by the WRA Director, or by such other designated officers or
officials with enforcement authority as provided in Section
100.66, may file an appeal and request a ruling that such order be modified or
rescinded.
   2.   Such appeal request shall be in writing, shall include the grounds for
appeal including any factual findings which are disputed, and shall be
delivered to the WRA within 10 days after the WRA Director’s issuance of the
order. Such appeal request shall be considered delivered when placed in the
mail, return receipt requested, addressed to:
WRA Appeal Committee
Des Moines Metropolitan Wastewater Reclamation Authority
3000 Vandalia Road
Des Moines, IA 50317
   3.   The Chair of the Appeal Committee shall schedule the appeal and shall
cause notice of the time, date, and place of the hearing to be mailed to the
appealing party. Such appeal shall be decided by majority vote of the Appeal
Committee. The Appeal Committee may affirm, modify, or rescind the order of the
Director and shall so state and order in its written decision.
100.71   ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   The WRA or the City or the Sanitary District is not precluded from seeking
alternative relief from the court, including an order for abatement or
injunctive relief or for recovery of investigational or remedial costs
resulting from a non-complying discharge, in the event that the WRA or the City
files a misdemeanor citation, notice of administrative penalty, or files a
municipal infraction for the same violation of this division.
100.72   RESERVED.
*** DIVISION 6. REGULATION OF HAULED WASTE ***
100.73   DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions found in Sections
100.01 and
100.56 shall apply to the provisions of this division, provided, however, that
the following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   1.   “Vehicle” means a commercial device equipped with a tank and used to
remove or transport waste.
   2.   “Waste” means human excreta, water, scum, sludge, septage, FOG, food
waste or grease solids, and non-hazardous industrial wastewaters and solids
removed from public and private wastewater disposal systems, holding tanks,
impervious vaults, portable or chemical toilets, or from devices used to trap
grease resulting from food preparation. Waste also means liquid wastes
resulting from spill clean-up.
100.74   LICENSE.
   No waste hauler shall remove waste from within the City or Sanitary District
or shall dispose of waste, whether from a source inside or outside the City or
Sanitary District, into the POTW without first obtaining a waste hauler license
from the WRA, with the following exceptions:
   1.   WRA participating communities that operate vehicles to remove waste
from their sewer systems.
   2.   Waste haulers hired by WRA participating communities to remove waste
from their sewer systems and which bring no other wastes to the WRF.
   3.   Waste haulers utilized by industrial users issued a Wastewater
Discharge Permit by the WRA.
   4.   Waste haulers granted temporary authorization by the WRA Director in
order to deal with an emergency.
100.75   ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; PAYMENT BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   The waste hauler’s license shall be issued by the WRA Director upon written
application that shall consist of the following minimum requirements:
   1.   Inspection. The WRA Director, upon application, shall inspect the
trucks, hoses, valves, and associated equipment of the applicant for a Waste
Hauler’s License and determine if they meet the minimum qualifications for
complying with the conditions of this division.
   2.   License Fee and Bond. An application shall require the payment of a fee
of $60.00 for each vehicle used by the applicant and the posting of a bond with
reasonable surety in the penal sum which shall cover no less than two months of
average or estimated treatment fees at the WRF for the faithful compliance with
this division, including prompt payment of treatment costs, surcharges, fees,
and fines. Bond amounts shall be up to $100,000.00, but not less than
$20,000.00, and structured as follows or as required by the WRA Director:
 
Total Monthly Treatment Fees Surety Bond Amount
< $10,000.00                 $20,000.00
$10,001.00 - $20,000.00      $40,000.00
$20,001.00 - $40,000.00      $60,000.00
> $40,001.00                 $100,000.00
 
   WRA participating communities that contract with waste haulers in order to
clean and rehabilitate storm and sanitary sewers owned by the community or that
own and operate waste hauling vehicles may provide proof of self-insurance or
provide a letter guaranteeing payment of up to $20,000.00 in lieu of providing
a surety bond.
   3.   Renewal. A waste hauler license shall expire on June 30 next after its
issuance. The renewal application must be made in the same manner as the
initial application and must be received by the Director 30 days prior to
expiration. Failure to apply 30 days prior to expiration may result in an
interruption in the license and the privileges of such license.
   4.   Transferability. Waste hauler licenses are not transferable.
100.76   STANDARDS FOR VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   As to all vehicles and equipment used by a waste hauler, the licensee shall:
   1.   Prevent waste and wastewater from leaking, spilling, or discharging
onto roads or rights-of-way.
   2.   Ensure proper construction and repair of the equipment to allow
cleaning.
   3.   Maintain vehicles and equipment in an essentially rust-free and
sanitary condition and appearance.
   4.   Display the business name as it appears on the waste hauler license in
three-inch or larger letters on the left and right sides of the vehicle.
100.77   DISPOSAL.
   Hauled waste shall only be disposed at the WRF at the designated disposal
station or as authorized by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources for land
application. Waste haulers shall maintain the WRF designated disposal location
in a clean and orderly condition to avoid noxious odors and unsanitary
conditions. Hours of operation at the WRF disposal station shall be set by the
WRA Director. In the event of emergency situations, special arrangements
between the waste hauler and the WRA Director regarding disposal at an
alternative disposal site shall be allowed to permit response to such
emergency. Any violation of an Iowa Department of Natural Resources rule or
regulation for land disposal of hauled wastes by a waste hauler shall be
grounds for rejection of a hauled waste load in Section
100.81 by such waste hauler or shall be grounds for denial, suspension, and
revocation of such waste hauler’s license in Section
100.86.
100.78   IDENTIFICATION OF SOURCE AND WASTELOAD APPROVAL.
   1.   Waste haulers must document the nature and origin of wastes collected
and the site and method of disposal for wastes that are removed from any
locations or are delivered to the WRF.
   Such information shall be provided on a manifest form provided by the WRA
and shall also include:
      A.   The name and address of the waste generators,
      B.   The type of waste collected,
      C.   Any other information consistent with identification and tracking of
wastes.
   The WRA Director, or their designee, shall have the right to verify all
information required by this section, including the right to measure, sample,
and analyze any waste regulated by this division.
   2.   The waste hauler or waste generator shall obtain approval from the WRA
Director, or their designee, prior to loading wastes originating from an
industrial or commercial source unless prior approval is on record with the
WRA. A hauled waste profile form prescribed by the WRA must be completed by the
waste generator and submitted to the WRA Director, or their designee, for
consideration for waste load disposal at the WRF.
   Such profile form shall include information regarding the waste generator’s
name, address, phone number, authorized representative, waste description and
product information, anticipated volume, and frequency of disposals, waste
transporter information, process waste characteristics including pollutant
concentrations, declarations, certifications, and signature of authorized
official.
100.79   MIXING WASTES.
   1.   For the purposes of this division, wastes from residential and
nonresidential sources shall not be mixed. Wastes from an industrial or
commercial source shall not be mixed with wastes of any type from another
location. Portable toilet and FSE grease trap wastes may be mixed with similar
wastes from different locations. Residential wastes from several sources may be
mixed as long as each source is identified.
   2.   Any tanks used for hauling waste to the WRF or equipment that comes in
contact with waste shall not be used for hauling hazardous wastes or hazardous
substances, as defined in I.C. § 567.1 et seq., Chapter 131 of the Iowa
Administrative Code and in 40 CFR 261, or other wastes which may be detrimental
to the POTW, the receiving waters, or the health of WRF employees, private
contractors, or the public.
100.80   STANDARDS OF DISPOSAL AT WRF.
   1.   Under this division, disposal of wastes at the WRF shall be carried out
in accordance with pretreatment standards and requirements established by
federal, State, County, and City governments including categorical standards
developed for the waste generator’s industrial category. The WRA Director may
reject wastes from waste haulers who do not comply with this section or with
any other section of this chapter. Waste haulers shall not deliver wastes to
the WRF, or to any other disposal location approved by the WRA Director which
are:
      A.   Prohibited by Section
100.11 or exceed the limits found in Section 100.12(3)(D), Sections
100.13, and Section
100.14.
      B.   Hazardous wastes or hazardous substances as defined in 40 CFR Part
261 or 567 I.A.C., Chapter 131.
      C.   Originate from mineral oil unless first treated to remove the oil
and grease.
      D.   Not completely identified or are from industrial or commercial
sources that are not approved by the WRA Director as required in Section
100.78.
      E.   Mixed in a manner prohibited in Section
100.79.
      F.   Wastes other than residential from outside the WRA, except through
requests to the WRA Director.
   2.   All disposal transactions at the WRF shall consist of waste haulers
scaling in and scaling out on the WRF scales system. Prior to discharging any
contents from their vehicle, a waste hauler shall:
      A.   Collect onsite at the WRF a sufficient sample of the waste material
onboard.
      B.   Test and record the pH and immediately report any results that do
not meet disposal limits as listed in
100.11(2).
      C.   Document on the WRF manifest all contents of the waste load
including waste type, source information, and any other information consistent
with identification and tracking of wastes as required in Section
100.78.
      D.   Request and obtain approval from WRF operations to begin unloading
at the WRF digesters.
100.81   REJECTION OF WASTE LOADS.
   1.   The WRA Director may reject any hauled waste load that violates or is
suspected of violating the requirements of this division or that fails to meet
any other guidelines established by the WRA Director to protect personnel,
equipment, and the WRF.
   Waste haulers must:
      A.   Remove rejected waste from the WRF.
      B.   Immediately remove any additional wastes contaminated by the
rejected waste while contained at the WRF prior to introduction into the sewer.
      C.   Properly dispose of all rejected wastes in accordance with State and
federal law.
      D.   Provide the WRA Director with a written statement, signed by the
waste hauler license holder, stating the location, date, and time the rejected
load was disposed of. The statement is due within five calendar days after the
waste is rejected.
   2.   A vehicle used to haul rejected wastes shall not thereafter be allowed
to dispose of additional wastes at the WRF until the statement required by this
section is delivered to the WRA Director.
100.82   TREATMENT FEES FOR HAULED WASTES.
   1.   A treatment fee shall be charged per pound of hauled waste disposed of
at the WRF and assessed based on the waste type, pollutant loading, approved
disposal location, and location of the source material. The fee for treatment
shall include electrical, chemical, labor, equipment, fuel, maintenance, and
any capital costs associated with the treatment processes utilized. The
treatment fee shall reflect a total cost per gallon or per pound of hauled
waste equaling the sum of the total cost of pollutants per gallon or per pound
plus, if applicable, total cost of flow per gallon, based on:
      A.   The parameters of chemical oxygen demand (COD), estimated
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), total suspended solids (TSS) or total solids
(TS), volatile solids (VS), total Kjeldahl nitrogen (TKN), oil and grease (O
and G), and, if applicable, total phosphorus (TP) contained in trucked waste to
the WRF;
      B.   Net weight of the wasteload in pounds; and
      C.   The treatment surcharge component rate per pound of pollutant as
found in Sections 118-352 of this division.
   Wasteloads disposed of at an unapproved location at the WRF, or containing
pollutant concentrations different from typical pollutant concentrations or
from original disclosures made during the wasteload approval process, may be
subject to the following additional costs: treatment fees, charges, or fines
may also be applied pursuant to Section
100.21(1)(L).
   2.   Treatment costs shall be reviewed and updated annually per the U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics Consumer Price Index. The WRA shall provide 30 days’
notice prior to assessing updated disposal rates with such notices posted, at a
minimum, on the WRA website. The treatment fee for loads originating outside of
the WRA participating communities shall be one and one-half times the fee for
loads originating within the WRA participating communities unless otherwise
approved by the WRA Director.
   3.   Wasteload disposal weights shall be computed and recorded at the WRF
truck scales and the resulting treatment fees shall be paid by the waste hauler
or waste generator, at the WRA’s discretion, on the basis of monthly billings
by the operating contractor. Limits of credit shall not exceed 60 days. Abuse
of such credit shall be grounds for liability on the waste hauler or waste
generator’s bond and for refusal of disposal services to any waste hauler or
waste generator under this division.
   4.   Waste haulers and waste generators may elect to have their routine
waste streams tested for actual concentration at their expense as set forth in
Section
100.21 and as approved by the WRA Director. When a waste hauler or waste
generator has elected to test for actual concentration, the treatment fee will
be based on the actual concentration whether it be higher or lower than the
average concentration treatment fee. Said testing will be done at least semi-
annually or as required by the WRA Director.
100.83   ENFORCEMENT.
   The WRA Director, the City Building Official, or such other governmental
official hereafter designated by the WRA, shall be authorized to enforce this
division as hereinafter provided.
100.84   NOTICE OF VIOLATION - ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES - CORRECTIVE ACTION
ORDER.
   1.   The Director, or such other designated officers or officials with
enforcement authority as provided in Section
100.83, are authorized to issue a notice of violation imposing an
administrative penalty upon any person who fails to perform an act required by
this division or who commits an act prohibited by this division.
   2.   The administrative penalty for such violations shall be as provided in
the schedule of administrative penalties adopted by the Council by resolution.
   3.   Notice of violation, with the applicable penalty for such violation
noted thereon, shall be issued to and served upon the violator. Service of the
notice may be by regular mail or by delivery in person.
   4.   Penalties assessed pursuant to notice of violation shall be paid by the
violator in full as directed in the notice within 30 days of its issuance.
   5.   The administrative penalties set out in the schedule of administrative
penalties shall be charged in lieu of the fines and penalties provided for in
Section 100.85, unless the violator refuses to correct the violation and pay
the scheduled administrative penalty, or the WRA Director determines that
immediate enforcement action by misdemeanor or municipal infraction prosecution
is, in view of the particular circumstances of the case, necessary to achieve
compliance with the requirements of this chapter. The WRA shall maintain a
record of all violations, administrative penalties charged, or other
enforcement actions taken.
100.85   PENALTIES.
   1.   Any person who fails to perform an act required by this division or who
commits an act prohibited by this division shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by fine or shall be guilty of a municipal infraction punishable by a
civil penalty.
   2.   Any person who violates a discharge prohibition set forth in Section
100.11, or discharges in excess of local limits as set forth in Section
100.12, shall be guilty of an environmental violation punishable as provided by
Section 364.22 of the Code of Iowa.
100.86   DENIAL, SUSPENSION, AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   1.   Grounds for denial, Suspension, or Revocation of Waste Haulers License.
The WRA Director may deny, suspend, or revoke the Waste Hauler License or
Grease Hauler Certification of any wastehauler who violates any provision of
this division or any condition of its license, or who commits any of the
following violations, or who does not meet the following requirements:
      A.   Violation of any term, condition, or requirement of this division,
the license, or applicable State or federal laws or regulations.
      B.   Obtaining a license by misrepresentation.
      C.   Falsification of, failure to complete or failure to fully disclose
all relevant facts in a license application.
      D.   Failure to pay fees, administrative penalties, or fines.
      E.   Failure to report a spill to the WRA.
      F.   Using wash down water or otherwise diluting the permitted waste for
the purpose of meeting discharge limitations or requirements.
      G.   Falsification of, failure to complete or failure to fully disclose
all relevant facts in any report, manifest information, or record required by
the license or this division.
      H.   Tampering with samples or sampling equipment intended to accurately
reflect the contents of each hauled waste load.
      I.   Refusing to allow WRA personnel timely access to the wastehauler’s
facility premises, vehicles, or records.
      J.   Failure to perform as required under a corrective action order or
compliance schedule issued by the WRA Director.
      K.   Failure to correct any violation of this division within 30 days
after notice by the WRA Director.
      L.   Failure to immediately correct any violation of this division if the
condition constituting the violation is declared a threat to public health,
safety, or welfare by the WRA Director and the Director orders immediate
correction.
   2.   Procedure for Denial, Suspension, or Revocation of Wastehauler’s
License. The procedure for denial, suspension, or revocation of a wastehauler’s
license shall be as follows:
      A.   Any license issued to a wastehauler pursuant to this division may be
denied, suspended, or revoked by written order of the WRA Director specifying
the grounds for such action as outlined in Paragraph A of this section, which
order shall not take effect until hearing thereon as hereafter provided. Upon
determining that grounds exist for an order to deny, suspend, or revoke a
wastehauler’s license, the WRA Director shall cause a notice of hearing to be
prepared, specifying the violations of Paragraph A of this section which are
deemed to have occurred, and the time, date, and place that such hearing will
be held. The notice shall be sent to the wastehauler by regular mail addressed
to the wastehauler’s address listed on the wastehauler’s license a minimum of
10 days prior to the date set for hearing and shall be deemed delivered when
placed in the mail.
      B.   If, after such a hearing, the WRA Director makes a finding based on
substantial evidence that one or more violations under Paragraph A of this
section have occurred as alleged, the Director may deny issuance of the
license, suspend the license for a fixed period, or may issue an order
immediately revoking the license and ordering the wastehauler to discontinue
hauling waste to the WRF or any other disposal locations approved by the
Director. The determination whether to deny issuance of a license, to suspend a
license, or to revoke a license, shall be in the discretion of the Director and
shall be dependent upon the circumstances surrounding the violations of
Paragraph A of this section and the severity of those violations. If the
wastehauler does not appear for the hearing, the Director shall issue the order
revoking the wastehauler’s license and ordering the cessation of delivery of
hauled waste at the WRF or any other disposal locations approved by the
Director, which order shall take effect immediately.
      C.   The decision and order of the WRA Director to deny issuance, to
suspend or to revoke the license of a wastehauler may be appealed to the WRA
Appeal Committee. Such appeal request shall be in writing, shall include the
grounds for appeal including any factual findings which are disputed, and shall
be delivered to WRA not less than 10 days after the Director’s entry of the
order of denial, suspension, or revocation. Such appeal request shall be
considered delivered when placed in the mail, return receipt requested,
addressed to:
WRA Appeal Committee
Des Moines Metropolitan Wastewater Reclamation Authority
3000 Vandalia Road
Des Moines, Iowa 50317
   The Chair of the Appeal Committee shall schedule the appeal and shall cause
notice of the time, date, and place of the hearing to be mailed to the
appealing wastehauler. Such appeal shall be decided by majority vote of the
Appeal Committee. If the Appeal Committee affirms the order of the WRA Director
denying issuance, suspending, or revoking the license and ordering the
cessation of waste deliveries at the WRF or other approved locations, the
Appeal Committee shall so state and order in its written decision.
      D.   A wastehauler whose license has been denied or revoked shall not be
eligible for issuance or reinstatement of its license until 30 days after the
violating conditions have been corrected to the satisfaction of the Director.
100.87   ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
   Neither the WRA nor the City or Sanitary District is precluded from seeking
alternative relief from the court, including an order for abatement or
injunctive relief, in the event that the WRA or the City files a misdemeanor
citation, notice of administrative penalty, or files a municipal infraction for
the same violation of this division, or in the event the WRA seeks to deny,
suspend, or revoke the wastehauler’s license
100.88   RESERVED.
CHAPTER 101
STORMWATER DRAINAGE UTILITY
 
101.01 Purpose                           101.05 Use of Fund
101.02 Stormwater Drainage Utility       101.06 Governing Board
Established
101.03 Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU) 101.07 Stormwater Site Plan Review
Defined                                  Required
101.04 Rates                             101.08 Lien for Nonpayment
 
101.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a Stormwater Drainage Utility
and provide a means of funding the construction, operation, and maintenance of
stormwater management facilities, including, but not limited to, detention and
retention basins, stormwater sewers, inlets, ditches and drains, and cleaning
of streets. The Council finds that the construction, operation, and maintenance
of the City’s storm and surface water drainage system should be funded through
charging users of property which may connect or discharge directly, or
indirectly, into the storm and surface water drainage system or properties
receiving the indirect benefit of drainage diverted into the City’s system.
101.02   STORMWATER DRAINAGE UTILITY ESTABLISHED.
   It is found and determined to be necessary and conducive to the protection
of the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience that a stormwater
drainage utility is created for all of the City, and for the purpose authorized
by Section 384.84(1) of the Code of Iowa; that is, to establish and collect
rates for a stormwater drainage system.
101.03   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU) DEFINED.
   For purposes of this this chapter, “ERU” shall be used as the basis for
determining stormwater management fees. Less than or equal to 3,000 square feet
of impervious surface area shall be one ERU.
   Every additional increment of one square foot to 1,500 square feet of
impervious surface area shall be one half ERU.
   Properties shall be charged in increments of one half ERU with a minimum
charge of one ERU per property billed monthly. Residential and non-residential
properties shall pay the same rate per ERU.
101.04   RATES.
   The billing rates per ERU as defined in Section
101.03 are as follows:
   1.   Effective July 1. 2024: $9.00 per ERU.
   2.   Effective July 1, 2026: $9.50 per ERU.
   3.   Effective July 1, 2028: $10.00 per ERU.
   4.   Effective July 1, 2030: $10.50 per ERU.
101.05   USE OF FUND.
   The money paid and collected pursuant to this chapter shall be held by the
City in a special fund to be expended only for the purpose of constructing,
operating, managing, repairing, and maintaining all kinds of conduits, drains,
stormwater detention devices, flow impediments, ponds, ditches, sloughs, filter
strips, rip-raps, erosion control devices, and any other things and activities
useful to the proper control management, collection, drainage, and disposition
of stormwater in the City.
101.06   GOVERNING BOARD.
The governing board of the Stormwater Drainage Utility is the Council. The
Stormwater Drainage Utility shall be under the direction, management, and
control of the City Administrator, who functions as its Director. In that
capacity, the City Administrator shall supervise the day-to-day operation of
the Stormwater Drainage Utility, shall enforce this chapter and the provisions
of all ordinances and regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter and shall
carry out the policy directives of the Council acting in its role as governing
body of the Stormwater Drainage Utility.
101.07   STORMWATER SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIRED.
   A stormwater site plan review shall be required for projects in order to
ensure that the goals of the City’s stormwater program are met. Stormwater site
plan requirements and associated fees are adopted by resolution and available
for review from the Clerk or the City Building Inspector.
101.08   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
   The owner of the property served, and any lessee or tenant thereof, shall be
jointly and severally liable for stormwater fees. Stormwater fees remaining
unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the property and shall be
certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same
manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.8)
CHAPTER 102
ILLICIT DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWER SYSTEM
 
102.01 Findings         102.06 Suspension of Access to the City’s Storm Sewer
                        System
102.02 Illicit          102.07 Watercourse Protection
Discharges Prohibited
102.03 Illicit          102.08 Enforcement
Connections Prohibited
102.04 Industrial       102.09 Appeal
Discharges
102.05 Illicit
Discharge Detection and
Reporting; Cost of
Recovery
 
102.01   FINDINGS.
   1.   The U.S. EPA’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(“NPDES”) permit program (“Program”) administered by the Iowa Department of
Natural Resources (“IDNR”) requires that cities meeting certain demographic and
environmental impact criteria obtain from the IDNR an NPDES permit for the
discharge of stormwater from a Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (“MS4”)
(“MS4 Permit”). The City is subject to the Program and is required to obtain,
and has obtained, an MS4 Permit; the City’s MS4 Permit is on file at the office
of the Clerk and is available for public inspection during regular office
hours.
   2.   As a condition of the City’s MS4 Permit, the City is obliged to adopt
and enforce an illicit discharge to storm sewer system ordinance.
   3.   No State or federal funds have been made available to assist the City
in administering and enforcing the Program. Accordingly, the City shall fund
its operations under this chapter entirely by charges imposed on the owners of
properties which are made subject to the Program by virtue of State and federal
law, or other sources of funding established by a separate ordinance.
   4.   Terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings specified in the
Program.
102.02   ILLICIT DISCHARGES PROHIBITED.
   1.   For purposes of this chapter, a “responsible party” is one or more
persons that control or are in possession of or own property. Responsible
parties shall be jointly and severally responsible for compliance with this
chapter and jointly and severally liable for any illicit discharge from the
property controlled, possessed, or owned. For purposes of this chapter,
“property” includes, but is not limited to, real estate, fixtures, facilities,
and premises of any kind located upon, under, or above the real estate.
   2.   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to relieve a responsible party
subject to an IDNR-issued Industrial Discharge Permit or any other federal,
State, or City permit, statute, ordinance, or rule from any obligation imposed
by such permit, statute, ordinance, or rule if any such obligation is greater
than any obligation imposed by this chapter.
   3.   Any discharge into the City’s storm sewer system prohibited by the
City’s MS4 Permit, the terms of which are hereby incorporated by reference,
shall be deemed an “illicit discharge” in violation of this chapter.
   4.   Sediment pollution originating from excessive erosion rates on a
construction site not otherwise subject to the City’s COSESCO ordinance or
sediment pollution entering a municipal storm sewer that causes a water quality
violation as determined by the DNR shall be deemed an illicit discharge in
violation of this chapter.
102.03   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   1.   For purposes of this chapter, an “illicit connection” to the City’s
storm sewer system is any physical connection or other topographical or other
condition, natural or artificial, which is not specifically authorized by
ordinance or written rule of the City, which causes or facilitates, directly or
indirectly, an illicit discharge.
   2.   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of any
illicit connection shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   3.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
102.04   INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGES.
   1.   Any responsible party subject an industrial NPDES Discharge Permit
issued by the IDNR shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
   2.   Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form
acceptable to the Enforcement Officer prior to discharges to the storm sewer
system authorized by said permit.
102.05   ILLICIT DISCHARGE DETECTION AND REPORTING; COST OF RECOVERY.
   1.   All detection activities permitted under this chapter shall be
conducted by the City Public Works Director, City Engineer, Building Inspector,
a subcontractor credentialed in a manner satisfactory to the City, or other
appropriate designee, hereinbefore and after referred to as the “Enforcement
Officer.”
   2.   The City shall not be responsible for the direct or indirect
consequences to persons or property of an illicit discharge, or circumstances
which may cause an illicit discharge, undetected by the City.
   3.   Every responsible party has an absolute duty to monitor conditions on
property owned or controlled by them, to prevent all illicit discharges, and to
report to the Enforcement Officer illicit discharges which the responsible
party knows or should have known to have occurred. Failure to comply with any
provision of this chapter is a violation of this chapter.
      A.   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any
responsible party has information of any known or suspected illicit discharge,
the responsible party shall immediately take all necessary steps to ensure the
discovery, containment, and cleanup of such discharge at the responsible
party’s sole cost.
      B.   If the illicit discharge consists of hazardous materials, the
responsible party shall also immediately notify emergency response agencies of
the occurrence via emergency dispatch services.
      C.   If the illicit discharge emanates from a commercial or industrial
establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an
on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three years.
      D.   A report of an illicit discharge shall be made in person or by phone
or facsimile or email to the Enforcement Officer immediately, but in any event
within 24 hours after the illicit discharge. Notifications in person or by
phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed or emailed to
the Enforcement Officer within 24 hours after the personal or phone notice.
   4.   Any person or entity shall also report to the City any illicit
discharge or circumstances which such person or entity reasonably believes pose
a risk of an illicit discharge.
   5.   Upon receiving a report pursuant to the previous subsections, or
otherwise coming into possession of information indicating an actual or
imminent illicit discharge, the Enforcement Officer shall conduct an inspection
of the site as soon as reasonably possible and thereafter shall provide to the
responsible party, and any third party reporter, a written report of the
conditions which may cause or which have already caused an illicit discharge.
The responsible party shall immediately commence corrective action or
remediation and shall complete such corrective action or remediation within 24
hours.
   6.   The Enforcement Officer shall be permitted to enter and inspect
property subject to regulation under this section as often as is necessary to
determine compliance with this section. If a responsible party has security
measures that require identification and clearance before entry to its property
or premises, the responsible party shall make the necessary arrangements to
allow access by the Enforcement Officer. By way of specification, but not
limitation:
      A.   A responsible party shall allow the Enforcement Officer ready access
to all parts of the property for purposes of inspection, sampling, examination,
and copying of records related to a suspected, actual, or imminent illicit
discharge, and for the performance of any additional duties as defined by State
and federal law.
      B.   The Enforcement Officer shall have the right to set up on any
property such devices as are necessary, in the opinion of the Enforcement
Officer, to conduct monitoring or sampling related to a suspected, actual or
imminent illicit discharge.
      C.   The Enforcement Officer shall have the right to require any
responsible party at responsible party’s sole expense to install monitoring
equipment and deliver monitoring data or reports to the Enforcement Officer as
the Enforcement Officer directs. The sampling and monitoring equipment shall be
maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the
responsible party at responsible party’s sole expense. All devices shall be
calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      D.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
property to be inspected or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
responsible party at the written or oral order of the Enforcement Officer and
shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the
responsible party.
      E.   An unreasonable delay in allowing the Enforcement Officer access to
a property is a violation of this chapter.
      F.   If the Enforcement Officer has been refused access to any part of
the property from an illicit connection or illicit discharge to a municipal
storm sewer is occurring, suspected, or imminent, and is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or
that there is a need to inspect or sample as part of a routine inspection and
sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any order
issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare
of the community, then the Enforcement Officer may seek issuance of a search
warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
   7.   If it is determined that an illicit discharge is imminent or has
occurred, the actual administrative costs incurred by the City in the
enforcement of this chapter shall be recovered from the responsible party. The
Enforcement Officer shall submit an invoice to the responsible party reflecting
the actual costs and wages and expenses incurred by the City for the
enforcement activities undertaken. Failure to pay charges invoiced under this
chapter within 30 days of billing shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
102.06   SUSPENSION OF ACCESS TO THE CITY’S STORM SEWER SYSTEM.
   1.   Emergency Suspension. The Enforcement Officer may, without prior
notice, suspend storm sewer system access to a property when such emergency
suspension is necessary to stop an ongoing or imminent illicit discharge. If
the responsible party fails to immediately comply with an emergency suspension
order, the Enforcement Officer shall take such steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize the illicit discharge. All costs of such action shall be
recovered from the responsible party for the property identified as the source
of the illicit discharge.
   2.   Non-Emergency Suspension. If the Enforcement Officer detects or is
informed of circumstances which could cause an illicit discharge, but such
illicit discharge is not ongoing or imminent, and if the suspension of storm
sewer system access would reasonably be expected to prevent or reduce the
potential illicit discharge, the Enforcement Officer shall notify the
responsible party of the proposed suspension of storm sewer system access and
the time and date of such suspension. Notice to one responsible party for the
property shall be sufficient notice to all. Remediation of the circumstances
shall avoid a violation of this chapter, provided that no illicit discharge
occurs. In the alternative, the responsible party may request a meeting with
the Enforcement Officer for the purpose of presenting information which the
responsible party believes will show that remediation is unnecessary; and, if
the Enforcement Officer finds such information is satisfactory, the Enforcement
Officer may rescind or modify the notice of suspension. If the Enforcement
Officer finds such information unsatisfactory, the Enforcement Officer shall
issue a final written order of suspension including the date and time of
suspension, and such order may be appealed as provided herein. Any physical
action to reinstate storm sewer system access to property subject to such order
prior to obtaining a court order of relief shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter. An order of suspension shall not preclude charging the responsible
party with a municipal infraction as provided herein or taking any other
enforcement action permitted by statute or ordinance.
102.07   WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property below the elevation of the 100-year flood free of trash, debris,
grass clippings, or other organic wastes and other obstacles that would
pollute, contaminate, or significantly alter the quality of water flowing
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
102.08   ENFORCEMENT.
   1.   Violation of any provision of this chapter may be enforced by civil
action including an action for injunctive relief. In any civil enforcement
action, administrative or judicial, the City shall be entitled to recover its
attorneys’ fees and costs from a person who is determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction to have violated this chapter.
   2.   Violation of any provision of this chapter may also be enforced as a
municipal infraction within the meaning of Section 364.22 of the Code of Iowa,
pursuant to Chapter 3.
   3.   Enforcement pursuant to this section shall be undertaken by the
Enforcement Officer upon the advice and consent of the City Attorney.
102.09   APPEAL.
   Administrative decisions by City staff and enforcement actions of the
Enforcement Officer may be appealed by the applicant to the Council pursuant to
the following rules:
   1.   The appeal must be filed in writing with the Clerk within five business
days of the decision or enforcement action.
   2.   The written appeal shall specify in detail the action appealed from,
the errors allegedly made by the Enforcement Officer giving rise to the appeal,
a written summary of all oral and written testimony the applicant intends to
introduce at the hearing, including the names and addresses of all witnesses
the applicant intends to call, copies of all documents the applicant intends to
introduce at the hearing, and the relief requested.
   3.   The Enforcement Officer shall specify in writing the reasons for the
enforcement action, a written summary of all oral and written testimony the
Enforcement Officer intends to introduce at the hearing, including the names
and addresses of all witnesses the Enforcement Officer intends to call, and
copies of all documents the Enforcement Officer intends to introduce at the
hearing.
   4.   The Clerk shall notify the applicant and the Enforcement Officer by
ordinary mail, and shall give public notice, in accordance with Chapter 21 of
the Code of Iowa, of the date, time, and place for the regular or special
meeting of the Council at which the hearing on the appeal shall occur. The
hearing shall be scheduled for a date not less than four or more than 20 days
after the filing of the appeal. The rules of evidence and procedure, and the
standard of proof to be applied, shall be the same as provided by Chapter 17A
of the Code of Iowa. The applicant may be represented by counsel at the
applicant’s expense. The Enforcement Officer may be represented by the City
Attorney or by an attorney designated by the Council at City expense.
The decision of the Council shall be rendered in writing and may be appealed to
the Iowa District Court.
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL AND RECYCLING
 
105.01 Purpose                    105.07 Treatment Pending Collection
105.02 Definitions                105.08 Waste Storage Containers
105.03 Sanitary Disposal Required 105.09 Prohibited Practices
105.04 Health and Fire Hazard     105.10 Recyclable Collection Program
105.05 Open Burning Restricted    105.11 Yard Wastes
105.06 Toxic and Hazardous Waste
 
105.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the chapters in this Code pertaining to Solid Waste Control
and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage, collection, and disposal
of solid waste, yard waste, and recyclables and, thereby, to protect the
citizens of the City from such hazards to their health, safety, and welfare as
may result from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.
105.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined.
   1.   “Agency” means the Metropolitan Waste Authority.
   2.   “Bags” means any untreated paper bags acceptable to the composting
station used by the licensed yard waste collection hauler.
   3.   “Bundle” means a stack of brush or tree branches that are tied or bound
together and do not exceed 40 pounds, four feet in length, and 18 inches in
diameter.
   4.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste from
public and private places.
   5.   “Composting” means a controlled microbial degradation of organic waste
to produce a relatively nuisance-free product of potential value as soil
conditioner.
   6.   “Container” means a reusable receptacle constructed of plastic or metal
materials.
   7.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361(2))
   8.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used,
or are intended to be used, for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
   9.   “Eligible residence” means a residence of not more than four dwelling
units.
   10.   “Facility” means the facility or facilities designated by the City to
which the hauler shall deliver all recyclable material collected by the hauler.
   11.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal, and
vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing,
serving, and consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all
offal, excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such
substances from all public and private establishments and from all residences.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   12.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials,
or debris.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361(1))
   13.   “Non-recyclable material” means any material not defined as
“recyclable material.”
   14.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person
residing in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating, or transacting business in
any premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
   15.   “Recyclable material” means material accepted by the Agency as
recyclable. The Agency will provide the parameters on which material will be
accepted through its recycling operations. This information will be provided to
the public on a regular basis and will also be available at City Hall.
   16.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including, but
not limited to, garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street
cleanings, market, and industrial solid waste and sewage treatment waste in dry
or semisolid form.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   17.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities. The term includes landscape waste grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes, and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])
   18.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible
and non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   19.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   20.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances,
including all real and personal property connected with such facilities, which
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated by the Agency to facilitate the final
disposition of solid waste. The term includes any sanitary landfill, transfer
station, or resource recovery system owned or operated by the Agency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
   21.   “Set out” means the action event or instance comprised of the proper
placement of the home storage containers of recyclable material for collection
at the eligible residence.
   22.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar
discarded solid or semisolid materials, including, but not limited to, such
materials resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic
activities. Solid waste may include motor vehicles, if approved by the Agency.
The term excludes yard waste and may exclude other materials as defined by the
Agency. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
      A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
      B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
      C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
      D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
      E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
   23.   “Yard waste” means organic debris such as grass clippings, leaves,
garden waste, prunings, weeds, brush, and tree branches produced as a part of
yard and garden development and maintenance. Yard waste does not include tree
stumps.
   24.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant wastes, except garbage.
The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds,
leaves, grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
   25.   “Structure” means any building, house, shed, garage, outbuilding,
storage building, carport, awning, or other such property which is constructed
with any combination of walls or a roof.
105.03   SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
   It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all
refuse accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance. Any
such accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than 30 days
shall be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate such nuisances in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 50 or by initiating proper action in
district court.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 657)
105.04   HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises,
improved or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation, or fire hazard.
105.05   OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to open burn or to permit open burning
of any refuse, rubbish, garbage, landscape waste, or other combustible material
within the City except as outlined below, and only then in the presence of a
competent adult and with a water supply or fire extinguisher in close
proximity:
   1.   Charcoal or Gas Cooking Grills. This section shall not apply to the use
of commercially manufactured cooking grills which burn commercially sold
charcoal, untreated seasoned dry wood, propane, or natural gas. Charcoal
burners and other open-flame cooking devices which produce ash or embers shall
not be operated on combustible balconies or within 10 feet of multi-story
buildings, such as apartment buildings or condominiums in accordance
with Section 308.8.1 of the Fire Code – Open Flame Cooking Devices.
   2.   Outdoor Patio Heaters. This section shall not apply to the use of
commercially manufactured outdoor patio heaters which use propane or similar
fuels as the fuel source.
   3.   Commercially Manufactured Outdoor Recreational Fireplaces with A
Chimney. This section shall not apply to commercially manufactured outdoor
recreational fireplaces which include, as part of the original manufacturer
design, a chimney through which all products of combustion must pass before
entering the open air. Furthermore, any substance used as fuel in these devices
shall be only such substance as is commercially sold for the purpose of
combustion within such devices; only untreated seasoned dry wood shall be used
as fuel in such devices. No commercially manufactured outdoor recreational
fireplace shall be utilized within 25 feet of any structure, nor within 10 feet
of any fence made of combustible materials, within the City. Any smoke or other
products of combustion shall rise above the roofline of residential homes in
the area where the device is being used.
   4.   Permanent Outdoor Fireplaces Designed and Built as Part of a
Landscaping Design. This section shall not apply to permanent outdoor
fireplaces designed and built as part of a landscape design, provided only
untreated seasoned dry wood or charcoal is used as fuel, and the individual
pieces of wood or charcoal are no larger than two inches in diameter. Outdoor
fireplaces shall be a minimum of 10 feet from any structure, and they must be
designed and built with a chimney through which products of combustion shall
pass before entering open air space. General landscape waste, refuse, and
garbage shall not be burnt in any permanent outdoor fireplace within the City.
Any smoke or other products of combustion must rise above the roofline of
residential homes in the area where the device is being used.
   5.   Any open burning which is offensive or objectionable because of smoke
or odor emission which does not meet the criteria in this Code related to the
smoke and products of combustion rising above the roofline of residential homes
in the area, or when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances making fires
hazardous, shall be prohibited.
   6.   There shall be no open burning if County is under a burn ban issued by
the State Fire Marshal.
105.06   TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection of any toxic or hazardous waste. Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of
Natural Resources. As used in this section, “toxic and hazardous waste” means
waste materials, including, but not limited to, poisons, pesticides,
herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological waste, flammable or explosive
materials, and similar harmful waste which requires special handling and which
must be disposed of in such a manner as to conserve the environment and protect
the public health and safety.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
(IAC, 567-102.13(2) and 400-27.14(2))
105.07   TREATMENT PENDING COLLECTION.
   All solid waste consisting of waste animal and vegetable matter, which may
attract flies, dogs, or rodents, shall be drained of all excess liquid, wrapped
in paper or disposable containers, and placed or stored, until collection, in
covered suitable containers.
105.08   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where refuse accumulates shall utilize and at all
times maintain in good order and repair portable containers for solid waste and
refuse provided by the City or the City’s solid waste contractor.
   1.   Commercial Container Specifications. Every person owning, managing,
operating, leasing, or renting any commercial premises, where an excessive
amount of refuse accumulates and where its storage in portable containers as
required above is impractical, shall maintain metal bulk storage containers
approved by the City.
   2.   Storage of Containers. Residential solid waste containers shall be
stored upon the residential premises. Commercial solid waste containers shall
be stored upon private property, unless the owner has been granted written
permission from the City to use public property for such purposes. The storage
site shall be well drained and fully accessible to collection equipment, public
health personnel, and fire inspection personnel. All owners of residential and
commercial premises shall be responsible for proper storage of all garbage and
yard waste to prevent materials from being blown or scattered around
neighboring yards and streets.
   3.   Location of Containers for Collection. Containers for the storage of
solid waste awaiting collection shall be placed outdoors at some easily
accessible place by the owner or occupant of the premises served. Containers
for solid waste placed at the curb line shall not be so placed more than 12
hours in advance of the regularly scheduled collection day and shall be
promptly removed from the curb line following collection. No solid waste or
solid waste containers shall be deposited by any person upon any sidewalk,
crosswalk, roadway, or upon any alley right-of-way so as to obstruct or block
pedestrian movement or vehicular traffic.
   4.   Nonconforming Containers. Solid waste placed in containers which are
not in compliance with the provisions of this section will not be collected.
105.09   PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   1.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste
containers not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of
such containers or to deposit any refuse in nonconforming containers.
   2.   Interfere with Collectors. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service.
   3.   Unlawful Disposal. Dispose of solid waste at any facility or location
which is not an approved sanitary disposal project.
   4.   Incinerators. Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed
for high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission.
   5.   Unlawful Collection. Engage in the business of collecting,
transporting, processing, or disposing of solid waste or yard waste within the
City without a contract therefore with the City or a valid permit therefor.
105.10   RECYCLABLE COLLECTION PROGRAM.
   1.   Establishment. The City has previously entered into an Agreement with
the Metro Waste Authority. This Agreement authorizes and directs the Metro
Waste Authority to contract on behalf of the City for the collection of
recyclable materials under the Metro Waste Authority’s “Curb-It” program. The
costs for the purchase of recyclable bins, the costs of educational programs
instructing citizens as to the program, and the costs for processing the
recyclables collected will be paid for by Metro Waste Authority. The hauler
designated by Metro Waste Authority as the Recyclable Collection Hauler will
provide collection of recyclable materials once per week to all eligible
residents, under the terms and conditions of the contract executed between
Metro Waste Authority and the designated hauler.
   2.   Nonexclusive Agreement. Nothing in the Agreement between the Metro
Waste Authority and the City, or Metro Waste Authority and the designated
hauler for recyclable material within the City shall be construed or
interpreted to constitute the grant of a franchise or exclusive right to the
designated hauler to collect all recyclable material within the City.
   3.   Collection of Recyclable Fees. Charges for the collection of recyclable
materials shall be included in each eligible residence’s water bill. Such
charges are set forth in Section 106.08.
   4.   Discontinuance of Service. Any resident who fails to remit the total
amount of the charges set out in the water bill, including the fees for
collection of recyclable materials, shall be sent a notice on the first day
following the delinquent date. Such notice shall contain a statement explaining
to the customer the availability of informal consultation with designated
personnel empowered to correct mistakes and billing. If payment is tendered to
the City within 10 days of notice being sent, all services to the residence
shall continue uninterrupted. In the event payment is not received, the City
shall have the right to discontinue utility services to the residence.
   5.   Responsibility for Payment of Bill. The owner of a property receiving
collection of recyclables shall be responsible for the payment of all charges
for such services.
105.11   YARD WASTES.
   1.   Disposal of Yard Waste. The collection, storage, and disposal of yard
waste shall be subject to the following:
      A.   Separation of Yard Waste Required. All yard waste shall be separated
by the owner or occupant from all other solid waste accumulated on the
premises. The owner or occupant may either compost the yard waste on the
premises or contain it in bags, containers, or bundles for collection and
disposal. All bags or containers must be clearly marked “Yard Waste.”
      B.   Yard Waste Containers. Persons choosing not to manage yard waste on
their own property shall place yard waste in bags, containers, or bundles for
collection and disposal. Bags shall be any untreated paper bags acceptable to
the composting station used by the licensed yard waste collection hauler. When
not in approved bags or containers, tree limbs of less than two inches in
diameter and brush will be collected provided they are securely tied in bundles
not more than 48 inches long or 18 inches in diameter. The weight of any
individual bag, container, or bundle shall not exceed 75 pounds.
      C.   Composting. Back yard composting of yard waste is encouraged.
Information about this process is available to all residents and may be
obtained from the office of the City Administrator located at the City Hall.
Owners and occupants are encouraged to accumulate upon property under their
respective control such quantities of yard waste as can be properly composted
without creating offensive odors, litter, fire, or vector problems. Such
composting so carried out shall be deemed to be an acceptable, alternative
disposition of yard waste, and shall satisfy any requirement to separate yard
waste contained in this Code.
      D.   Frequency of Collection. All yard waste not composted shall be
collected from residential, commercial, industrial, and institutional premises
at least once per week. Yard waste shall be collected on a City-wide basis
between March 1 and November 30. City residents may arrange for individual yard
waste pickup with the City, or its agent, between December 1 and February 28.
      E.   Location of Containers. Containers for the storage of yard waste
awaiting collection shall be placed at the curb by the owner or occupant of the
premise served. Yard waste must be placed a minimum of three feet from other
solid waste.
      F.   Number of Bags or Containers. The number of bags, containers, or
bundles containing yard waste which persons may place out for collection shall
be unlimited.
      G.   Time Limit. Bags, containers, or bundles of yard waste shall not be
placed for collection more than 48 hours in advance of the regularly scheduled
collection day.
   2.   Licensing of Yard Waste Collection Hauler. No person shall collect,
transport, process, or dispose of yard waste generated within the jurisdiction
of the City for compensation unless such person holds a valid license issued in
accordance with the provisions of this section. In addition to meeting the
requirements under this chapter for solid waste collectors, each licensed
collector of yard waste shall provide the City a detailed description of the
manner in which the collector intends to collect and haul away yard waste. Each
such licensed collector shall haul yard waste to a compost site approved
pursuant to State or local law or regulation and shall keep an accurate
accounting of the amount of such yard waste. Each licensed collector shall
submit an annual written report to the City detailing the amount of such yard
waste that has been collected and delivered for composting during each month of
the reporting year. Any collector licensed under the provisions of this section
shall not mix yard waste and solid waste together. The license of any hauler
who delivers for disposal yard waste and solid waste mixed together shall be
subject to revocation.
   3.   Containers and Charges. Containers and charges for yard waste
collection and disposal shall be fixed and determined by the Council, adopted
by resolution, and uniformly enforced. Such containers and corresponding
charges may, from time to time, be amended by the Council by resolution. A copy
of the resolution setting forth the currently effective containers and
corresponding charges shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Administrator and be open to inspection during regular business hours.
Residents shall purchase their own bags, which are in addition to these
charges. No additional charge will be imposed upon a resident for the
collection of holiday trees and wreaths.
   4.   Owner May Transport. Nothing in this section is intended to prevent an
owner from transporting yard waste accumulating on the premises of the owner,
provided such yard waste is disposed of at composting stations approved
pursuant to State or local law or regulation and in accordance with policies
established by the composting station.
   5.   Violations. No person shall place, or cause to be placed, any yard
waste into the solid waste collection system of the City. Any person violating
any of the provisions of this chapter concerning yard waste shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
 
106.01 Collection Service      106.05 Bulky Rubbish
106.02 Collection Vehicles     106.06 Right of Entry
106.03 Loading                 106.07 Authorization for Charges
106.04 Frequency of Collection 106.08 Billing and Collection Procedures
 
106.01   COLLECTION SERVICE.
   The City shall provide by contract, with a licensed collector, for the
collection of solid waste as provided in Section 106.05, from residential
premises only. The owners or operators of commercial, industrial, or
institutional premises shall provide for the collection of solid waste produced
upon such premises.
106.02   COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall be
leak-proof, durable, and of easily cleanable construction. They shall be
cleaned to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect breeding and shall be
maintained in good repair.
(IAC, 567-104.9(455B))
106.03   LOADING.
   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any
solid waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will
not fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing or
loss of material. Where spillage does occur, the material shall be picked up
immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the vehicle or
container and the area properly cleaned.
106.04   FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
   All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises at least once
each week and from commercial, industrial, and institutional premises as
frequently as may be necessary, but not less than once each week.
106.05   BULKY RUBBISH.
   Bulky rubbish, which is too large or heavy to be collected in the normal
manner of other solid waste, may be collected by the collector, upon request,
in accordance with procedures therefore established by the collector’s
contract.
106.06   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property
for the purpose of collecting solid waste therefrom as required by this
chapter; however, solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or
other residential buildings.
106.07   AUTHORIZATION FOR CHARGES.
   1.   Authority to Establish Rates. The City will fix, establish, maintain,
and revise, from time to time whenever necessary, such rates, fees, rentals, or
other charges for the use and services of the disposal facilities operated by
the Metro Waste Authority, as more fully described in the Agreement for the
Collection of Solid Waste and Yard Waste Between Metro Waste Authority and
Waste Connections of Iowa, Inc., dated December 29, 2021, and any subsequent
MOU approved by the Council, to always provide in each year revenues sufficient
to pay the proportionate share of the City for:
      A.   Operation and maintenance expenses for said disposal facilities;
      B.   The principal of and interest on the Solid Waste Disposal Revenue
Bonds; and
      C.   All reserves, renewal, and replacement funds and other funds
provided for in the resolution authorizing the issuance of such Solid Waste
Disposal Revenue Bonds.
   2.   Initial Schedule of Rates. An initial schedule of such rates, fees,
tolls, and other charges to be levied and collected from the residents of the
City for the use and services of said disposal facilities shall be established
and put into effect whenever necessary in order for the City to comply with the
provisions of its Agreement for the Collection of Solid Waste and Yard Waste
Between Metro Waste Authority and Waste Connections of Iowa, Inc., dated
December 29, 2021, and any subsequent MOU approved by the Council; provided,
however, the City may, in its discretion, apply such other lawfully available
moneys it has on hand for such purpose. The applicable monthly rates are
identified in the Fee Schedule.
106.08   BILLING AND COLLECTION PROCEDURES.
   1.   The collector contracted by the City for collection and disposal of
solid waste shall be responsible for all billings and collection of fees for
its services rendered for collection and disposal. Said collector shall bill
City residents on a quarterly basis. The collector shall provide at least 90
days for payment of a delinquent account prior to termination of service and
shall not discontinue collection service at any residential unit prior to a
written notice sent to the unit. This notice shall state substantially as
follows:
Dear Customer:
It has become necessary for us to discontinue your service because of
nonpayment. Please contact our office immediately so we can make arrangements
to reinstate your service. Thank you.
The collector shall employ reasonable procedures to collect delinquent accounts
and shall not harass or exert undue pressure on residents with delinquent
accounts.
   2.   Each delinquent account which is transmitted to the City by the
licensed collector shall thereafter be processed for imposition of a lien upon
the property benefited as provided by Section 384.84 of the Code of Iowa, in
the amount of the delinquent account, plus a County administrative fee for each
lien certified as provided in Section 384.84 of the Code of Iowa, plus a City
delinquency fee in the amount of $5.00 to recoup the City’s administrative
processing costs and lost investment on the unpaid amount. The lien herein
provided shall apply only to that property or those properties benefited for
which the account is delinquent.
   3.   The City shall prepare an assessment schedule listing all delinquent
solid waste collection accounts transmitted to the City. Such schedule shall
show each delinquent account by name of the tenant or record title holder of
the benefited property, shall identify each property for which the solid waste
collection account is delinquent, and shall show the delinquent amount and
delinquency fee to be assessed against each such benefited property. The
assessment schedule shall be presented to the Council and, upon Council
approval thereof the Clerk, shall certify and file same with the County
Treasurer for filing of liens against the properties shown thereon in the
amounts shown thereon; provided, however, if the record title holder of a
rental property subject to billing for solid waste collection requests notice
as provided in Section 384.84 of the Code of Iowa, the Clerk shall give notice
of delinquency to said record title holder not less than 10 days prior to
certifying delinquent charges for said property to the County Treasurer.
   4.   Such lien shall be enforced until payment in full of the delinquent
amount and delinquency fees shown on the assessment schedule is satisfied by
payment of said amounts at the office of the County Treasurer.
CHAPTER 107
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
 
107.01 Definitions                 107.07 Optional Methods of Providing for
                                   Payment of Contract Payment
107.02 Disposal of Solid Waste     107.08 Assessment Schedule for Contract
                                   Payment
107.03 Exceptions                  107.09 Approval of Assessment Schedule
107.04 Method of Disposal of Solid 107.10 Certification of Assessment
Waste                              Schedule
107.05 Declaration of Benefit      107.11 Proceeds of Special Assessment
107.06 Notice of Contract Payment
 
107.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined.
   1.   “Actual value” means actual value as that term is or may be defined by
Section 441.21 of the Code of Iowa. It refers to actual value as most recently
determined according to law.
   2.   “Agency” means Metro Waste Authority.
   3.   “Contract” means the Agreement for the Collection of Solid Waste and
Yard Waste Between Metro Waste Authority and Waste Connections of Iowa, Inc.,
dated December 29, 2021, and any subsequent MOU approved by the Council.
   4.   “Contract payment” means the amounts paid or required to be paid, from
time to time, by the City to the Agency pursuant to the contract.
   5.   “Disposal project” means a sanitary disposal project as that term is or
may be defined by Chapter 455B of the Code of Iowa, owned, operated, or used by
the Agency pursuant to the contract.
   6.   “Real estate” means real estate as that term is or may be defined by
Section 4.1(13) of the Code of Iowa.
107.02   DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE.
   All solid waste generated within the jurisdiction of the City shall be
disposed of at the sanitary disposal project.
107.03   EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of Section 107.02 do not apply to:
   1.   The disposal of organic material which is not potentially injurious to
public health or welfare, and which has been gathered and suitably contained
for purposes of composting or fertilizing agricultural or flora plots when
permission to dispose of such material has been obtained from the owner of the
plots where such material is to be deposited; or
   2.   The filling or grading of property with earth, sand, mud, or other
similar materials which are not potentially injurious to public health or
welfare when permission for such filling or grading has been obtained from the
owner of the property on which such filling or grading is done and when such
filling or grading is done in accordance with the provisions of other
applicable statutes and ordinances.
107.04   METHOD OF DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE.
   The disposal project owned, operated, and used by the Agency is hereby
declared to be available to persons who are owners of real estate within the
corporate limits of the City as a method for the disposition of solid waste
generated within the corporate limits of the City pursuant to the contract in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 455B of the of Code of Iowa.
107.05   DECLARATION OF BENEFIT.
   The benefits derived by each individual parcel of real estate subject to
taxation within the corporate limits of the City from the contract are hereby
declared to be at least equal to the ratio which the actual value of each
individual parcel of real estate subject to taxation within the corporate
limits of the City bears to the aggregate actual value of all parcels of real
estate subject to taxation within the corporate limits of the City.
107.06   NOTICE OF CONTRACT PAYMENT.
   In the event that the budget of the Agency for any calendar or fiscal year
shall provide for a contract payment from the City to the Agency pursuant to
the contract during the calendar or fiscal year, the Agency shall, at least 30
days prior to the date fixed by law for the final certification of the budget
of the City, notify the City in writing that a contract payment shall be due
from the City pursuant to the contract and the amount thereof.
107.07   OPTIONAL METHODS OF PROVIDING FOR PAYMENT OF CONTRACT PAYMENT.
   Upon receipt by the City of the notice referred to in Section 107.06 hereof,
the City shall determine, by resolution, whether it will:
   1.   Pay said contract payment from funds legally available to pay the same
(hereinafter “Option A”); or
   2.   Assess said contract payment against the real estate subject to
taxation within the corporate limits of the City benefited thereby as aforesaid
in the manner provided by and for special assessments as hereinafter provided
(hereinafter “Option B”).
   In the event that the City elects Option “A,” provision shall be made
therefor in the budget of the City.
107.08   ASSESSMENT SCHEDULE FOR CONTRACT PAYMENT.
   In the event that the City elects Option “B,” the Clerk shall prepare an
assessment schedule on the following basis:
   1.   Assessment Rate. The amount of the contract payment shall be divided by
aggregate actual value of all parcels of real estate subject to taxation within
the corporate limits of the City to determine the contract payment assessment
rate (hereinafter “assessment rate”).
   2.   Assessment. The assessment rate shall be multiplied by the actual value
of each individual parcel of real estate subject to taxation within the
corporate limits of the City to determine the contract payment assessment
(hereinafter “assessment”) for each such parcel. Assessments shall be expressed
in dollars and cents, and cents shall be carried to three digits. If the last
digit of the cents of any assessment is less than five, the assessment shall be
lowered to the next even cent. If the last digit of the cents of any assessment
is five or more, the assessment shall be raised to the next even cent. No
assessment shall be less than one cent.
   3.   Assessment Schedule. The assessments shall be shown on an assessment
schedule which shall state a description of the parcel of real estate involved,
the name and address of the owner thereof, and the amount of the assessment.
   4.   Certification. The assessment schedule shall be certified to the
Council for approval.
107.09   APPROVAL OF ASSESSMENT SCHEDULE.
   Upon receipt of the assessment schedule, the Council shall approve the same
by resolution.
107.10   CERTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENT SCHEDULE.
   Upon approval of the assessment schedule by the Council, the Clerk shall
certify the assessments to the County Treasurer for collection with, and in the
same manner as, general property taxes. Said certification shall be made on or
before the last date fixed by law for certification of special assessments for
collection in the year in which the contract payment is due
107.11   PROCEEDS OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   The Clerk shall receive, deposit, and account for all funds received by the
City from said special assessment. Said funds shall be handled as trust and
agency funds and shall be expended only upon order of the Council to satisfy
contract payments due from the City to the Agency pursuant to the contract.
Balances, if any, remaining at the end of any calendar or fiscal year of the
City, shall be carried over from year to year.
CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
110.01 Franchise Granted                110.11 Exemption from Payment of
                                        Franchise Fee
110.02 Term of Franchise                110.12 Remittance of Franchise Fee
110.03 Representations of Company       110.13 Forfeiture of Franchise; Cure of
                                        Defaults
110.04 Location of Facilities           110.14 Reservation of Home Rule Powers
110.05 Excavations and Other Work       110.15 Maps of Distribution System
110.06 Rates                            110.16 Customer Satisfaction Surveys
110.07 Annual Report                    110.17 Exercise of Eminent Domain
                                        Powers
110.08 Inspection of Company Facilities 110.18 Indemnity
110.09 Compliance With City Ordinances  110.19 Lease or Assignment of Franchise
110.10 Franchise Fee
 
110.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
   There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, a State corporation,
hereinafter called the “Company,” and its successors and assigns, the
nonexclusive right and franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain, and
operate in the City a system for the transmission and distribution of natural
gas along, under, over, and upon the streets, avenues, alleys, and public
places to serve customers within and outside the City, and to furnish and sell
natural gas to the City and its inhabitants. This franchise grants no rights
for communications signals other than signals necessary for the operation and
maintenance of the Company’s natural gas system described herein. Pursuant to
Section 364.2(4)(e) of the Code of Iowa, the Company is granted the right of
eminent domain, the exercise of which is subject to Council approval upon
application by the Company. The rights and privileges hereby granted are
subject to the restrictions and limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa,
as subsequently amended or changed. † 7
 
Notes
  †  EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 05-02, adopting a natural gas franchise for the
7 City, was passed and adopted on February 7, 2005. Voters approved the franchise
  at an election held on March 28, 2005.
110.02   TERM OF FRANCHISE.
   This franchise shall remain in effect for a period of 25 years after the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter. The City may request
amendments to the franchise by providing to the Company written notice of the
City’s desire to amend said franchise. Such notice shall be given at least 180
days prior to the expiration of the fifteenth or twentieth year of the
agreement. If the parties are unable to agree to amend this franchise within 90
days after such notice is given, the City may terminate this franchise
agreement. Failure to amend or terminate the franchise at the first option does
not render invalid the City’s second option to amend or terminate the
franchise.
110.03   REPRESENTATIONS OF COMPANY.
   The Company agrees to provide, construct, install, and maintain its entire
system pursuant to Iowa Utilities Board rules and regulations in such condition
that it will furnish safe, adequate, efficient, and continuous service. The
Company’s system shall be of sufficient capacity to supply all reasonable
demands of the City and consumers within the City and to provide a reasonable
reserve for emergencies. All natural gas service shall be supplied through a
meter or other means that shall accurately measure the amount of natural gas
supplied to a consumer. All gas pipes, mains, conduits, and other gas
facilities shall be placed and maintained so as not to interfere unnecessarily
with travel on the City’s streets, alleys, and public places or with the proper
use of the same, including ordinary drainage, or with the construction or use
of the sewers, pipes, drains, and other property of the City, or the flow of
water therefrom.
110.04   LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   The Company shall not locate any new natural gas mains, pipes, or conduits
within the City in the public right-of-way without the prior approval of the
City; however, the City shall not unreasonably withhold approval of Company’s
location of Company facilities within public right-of-way. The City reserves to
itself the power to impose reasonable regulations on the Company’s use of
streets. The City reserves the right, by resolution or otherwise, to designate
the location of any new natural gas distribution facilities, which designation
shall not conflict with Company’s adherence to its design standards and such
utility regulation as governs its construction of facilities. The City shall
work with the Company to ensure, to the extent practicable, that the Company
may locate its facilities in the least-cost manner consistent with its design
standards and utility regulations and consistent with the City’s desire to
promote the public safety and welfare and protect public property. The Company
shall, at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its installations in, on,
over, or under any public street or alley in the City in such manner as the
City may at any time reasonably require for the purposes of facilitating the
construction, reconstruction, maintenance, or repair of the street or alley, or
any public improvement of, in, or about any such street or alley, or reasonably
promoting the efficient operation of any such improvement.
110.05   EXCAVATIONS AND OTHER WORK.
   In making excavations or performing other work in the City, the Company
shall proceed with such work so as to cause the least possible inconvenience to
the public. The Company shall properly protect, according to safety standards
generally accepted at the time of placement, all excavations and obstructions
by proper shoring, surface plates, barricades, warning lights, and such other
or additional devices as circumstances may warrant. The Company shall provide
the City with 24 hours’ notice to the City prior to commencing work that
requires the excavation of the traveled portion of the streets, avenues, or
alleys. Emergency repairs are exempted from this notification requirement. The
Company shall notify the City of the emergency repair following the completion
of said emergency repairs. If, in the opinion of the City’s Public Works
Department, such excavation or obstruction is not properly and safely
protected, the City’s Public Works Department shall notify the Company, and the
Company shall immediately comply with such reasonable instructions not in
conflict with accepted utility safety rules and practices. Company excavations
within the public rights-of-way, public areas, and private property within the
City shall be refilled within a reasonable time thereafter consistent with
accepted utility safety rules and practices. Pavements, sidewalks, curbs,
gutters, vegetation, or landscape opened, disturbed, or damaged by the Company
shall be promptly restored and replaced with like materials by the Company, at
its own expense, and left in a condition as good as or better than before. In
the event that the Company fails to comply with this section, the City may do
such work as may be needed to properly prepare such pavements, sidewalks,
curbs, gutters, vegetation, or landscape, and the cost of such repairs shall be
repaid to the City by the Company.
110.06   RATES.
   The Company shall supply natural gas to consumers within the City at just
and reasonable rates. It is recognized that under the statutes of the State,
the Iowa Utilities Board of the Iowa Department of Commerce is vested with
legal authority to supervise, fix, or change rates and charges authorized to be
charged by the Company to natural gas consumers. In the event rates or charges
in general, or any class or type of rate or charge shall, during the term of
this franchise, cease to be regulated by any State or federal agency, the
Council reserves the right to regulate such rates within the City with the
costs of such regulation to be borne by the Company, as a part of the Company’s
cost of doing business and reflected in its rates.
110.07   ANNUAL REPORT.
   Upon request by the City, the Company shall file with the Council a true
copy of the annual report of the Company pertaining to the operation or conduct
of the business of the Company under this franchise. The report may be the same
as the Company shall have prepared for such year in the ordinary course of
business of the Company and filed with the Iowa Utilities Board. In the event
the Council is authorized by State law and undertakes to regulate rates for
service within the City, the Company shall provide all information necessary to
permit the Council to set just and reasonable rates.
110.08   INSPECTION OF COMPANY FACILITIES.
   The Company shall inspect its natural gas facilities used to provide natural
gas service under this franchise in compliance with standards established by
federal and State laws, rules, and regulations. The replacement or repair of
natural gas facilities resulting from these inspections shall be completed
within a reasonable period of time thereafter. Hazardous conditions shall be
corrected promptly.
110.09   COMPLIANCE WITH CITY ORDINANCES.
   The Company shall, at all times, during the term of this franchise, conform
with, submit to, and carry out the provisions of any and all valid ordinances
in effect during the term of this franchise, to the full extent allowed by law
and to the extent such provisions are not in conflict with this franchise
agreement:
   1.   Relating to any person, firm, or corporation supplying and distributing
natural gas to the City or consumers within the City that are now in force or
may hereafter be lawfully enacted;
   2.   Relating to the use of City right-of-way; or
   3.   Relating to the City’s exercise of its police or regulatory powers.
110.10   FRANCHISE FEE.
   In consideration of the right to construct and maintain such facilities and
equipment along, upon, across, and under the streets, highways, avenues,
alleys, bridges, and public places of the City, there is hereby imposed upon
the Company by the City, and the Company agrees that there shall be collected
from Company’s retail customers, in accordance with Company tariffs on file
with and approved by the Iowa Utilities Board, and remitted by the Company to
the City, a franchise fee in an amount up to and including five percent of the
gross receipts derived by the Company from the transmission, distribution,
transportation, or sale of natural gas to retail customers within the corporate
limits of the City (excluding, however, the sale of natural gas to the City for
its own use), commencing with gross receipts received on or after the effective
date of this franchise. The specific percentage levels for the franchise fee
shall be established by separate ordinance and may be different for diverse
customer classes. The obligation to pay the fee imposed by this section is
modified if:
   1.   The City permits any other person to sell natural gas to City consumers
and pay a franchise fee or its lawful equivalent at a lesser rate than provided
in this section, in which case the Company shall collect from its customers and
pay at the lesser rate; or
   2.   If the City adds additional territory by annexation or consolidation
and is unable lawfully to impose the franchise fee upon any person selling
natural gas to consumers within the additional territory, in which case the
franchise fee on the revenue from sales by the Company in the additional
territory shall be equal to that of the lowest fee being paid by any other
person selling or transmitting natural gas within the additional territory.
110.11   EXEMPTION FROM PAYMENT OF FRANCHISE FEE.
   If the franchise fee or the Company’s ability to collect the fee from its
customers is adjudged to be unlawful, invalid, or unconstitutional by final
non-appealable regulatory or judicial action, the Company shall be relieved of
its obligation to collect from its customers and to remit to the City the
franchise fee, the franchise fee shall be deemed to be of no further force and
effect as of the date of such adjudication, and the City may request amendments
to the franchise. If a refund to customers by the Company is ordered by such
final non-appealable adjudication, the City agrees to repay to the Company such
fees as are ordered to be refunded. If the parties are unable to agree to amend
the franchise within a reasonable time after the City requests amendments
thereto, the City may terminate the franchise.
110.12   REMITTANCE OF FRANCHISE FEE.
   The Company shall remit the franchise fee to the City Treasurer quarterly on
or before May 1, August 1, November 1, and February 1 of each year for the
three-month periods ending March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31,
respectively.
110.13   FORFEITURE OF FRANCHISE; CURE OF DEFAULTS.
   The violation of any material portion of this franchise by the Company, or
its successors or assigns, or its failure to promptly perform any of the
provisions of this franchise, shall be cause for forfeiture of this franchise
and the termination of all rights under this franchise. Such forfeiture shall
be accomplished after written notice to the Company by the City, and a
continuation of the violation, failure, or default specified in the notice, for
at least 60 days from the date the notice was served upon the Company. If
either party determines that there is a default under this franchise, the other
party shall be given a written notice describing the default, stating whether a
forfeiture or termination of the franchise will be sought, and where the
default is curable, providing a reasonable time to cure the default, which
shall be not less than 30 or more than 180 days.
110.14   RESERVATION OF HOME RULE POWERS.
   This chapter is intended to be and shall be construed as consistent with the
reservation of local authority contained in the Twenty-Fifth Amendment to the
State Constitution granting home rule powers to municipalities. To such end,
any limitation on the power of the City is to be strictly construed, and the
City reserves to itself the right to exercise all power and authority to
regulate and control its local affairs, and all ordinances and regulations of
the City shall be enforceable against the Company unless, and only to the
extent, they are irreconcilable with any rights granted to the Company under
this chapter.
110.15   MAPS OF DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   Upon reasonable request, Company shall provide to the City Engineer, on a
project specific basis, information indicating the horizontal location, in
compliance with One-Call regulation, relative to the boundaries of the right-
of-way, of all-natural gas equipment which it owns or over which it has control
and which is located in the project right-of-way. Project-specific mapping data
shall be provided with the specificity and, if reasonably possible, in the
format requested by the City Engineer. Mapping information provided to the City
by the Company shall be for the exclusive use of the City in administering the
use and occupancy of the public rights-of-way within the City and shall not be
provided to or relied on by any person for any other purpose. At the request of
the Company, any information requested with respect to the location or type of
equipment the Company maintains or plans to install in the right-of-way that
qualifies or is designated by the Company as proprietary information or as a
trade-secret information under Chapter 550 of the Code of Iowa, or qualifies to
be kept confidential under Section 22.1 of the Code of Iowa, et seq., shall be
treated as confidential information or a trade secret and shall not be released
to any party by the City.
110.16   CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEYS.
   At the request of the City, the Company shall provide the City with
summaries of the findings of its annual and other periodic customer
satisfaction surveys and research. The Company also agrees to respond promptly
and fully to the City’s concerns and questions about specific service quality
and customer satisfaction matters as and when they are communicated to the
Company.
110.17   EXERCISE OF EMINENT DOMAIN POWERS.
   The Company shall have the power to condemn private property for the purpose
of providing natural gas utilities to the extent necessary to serve a public
use and in a reasonable relationship to an overall plan of transmitting or
delivering natural gas in the public interest upon approval of the Council. The
Company must establish the necessity for each taking of private property, and
when so established, the Council may approve the condemnation of the private
property, by resolution. Any such exercise of the eminent domain powers shall
be conducted in accordance with this Code.
110.18   INDEMNITY.
   The Company shall indemnify and hold the City, and its officers, agents, and
employees, free and harmless from any and all claims, demands, lawsuits,
liability, and damages whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident
thereto, for any and all loss, damage, injury, or death caused or occasioned,
in whole or in part, by the Company’s negligence in construction,
reconstruction, excavation, operation, or maintenance of the natural gas
facilities authorized by this franchise; provided, however, that the Company
shall not be obligated to defend, indemnify, and save harmless the City for any
costs or damages arising from the negligence of the City, its officers,
employees, or agents.
110.19   LEASE OR ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE.
   This franchise shall apply to, inure to, and bind the parties hereto and
their successors.
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
111.01 Franchise Granted                111.11 Exemption from Payment of
                                        Franchise Fee
111.02 Term of Franchise                111.12 Remittance of Franchise Fee
111.03 Representations of Company       111.13 Forfeiture of Franchise; Cure of
                                        Defaults
111.04 Location of Facilities           111.14 Reservation of Home Rule Powers
111.05 Excavations and Other Work       111.15 Maps of Distribution System
111.06 Rates                            111.16 Customer Satisfaction Surveys
111.07 Annual Report                    111.17 Exercise of Eminent Domain
                                        Powers
111.08 Inspection of Company Facilities 111.18 Indemnity
111.09 Compliance With City Ordinances  111.19 Lease or Assignment of Franchise
111.10 Franchise Fee
 
111.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
   There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, a State corporation,
hereinafter called the “Company,” and its successors and assigns, the
nonexclusive right and franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain, and
operate in the City a system for the transmission and distribution of electric
energy along, under, over, and upon the streets, avenues, alleys, and public
places to serve customers within and outside the City, and to furnish and sell
electric energy to the City and its inhabitants. This franchise grants no
rights for communications signals other than signals necessary for the
operation and maintenance of the Company’s electric system described herein.
Pursuant to Section 364.2(4)(e) of the Code of Iowa, the Company is granted the
right of eminent domain, the exercise of which is subject to Council approval
upon application by the Company. The rights and privileges hereby granted are
subject to the restrictions and limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa,
as subsequently amended or changed. † 8
 
Notes
  †  EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 05-01, adopting an electric franchise for the
8 City, was passed and adopted on February 22, 2005. Voters approved the franchise
  at an election held on March 28, 2005.
111.02   TERM OF FRANCHISE.
   This franchise shall remain in effect for a period of 25 years from the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter. The City may request
amendments to the franchise by providing to the Company written notice of the
City’s desire to amend said franchise. Such notice shall be given at least 180
days prior to the expiration of the fifteenth or twentieth year of the
agreement. If the parties are unable to agree to amend this franchise within 90
days after such notice is given, the City may terminate this franchise
agreement. Failure to amend or terminate the franchise at the first option does
not render invalid the City’s second option to amend or terminate the
franchise.
111.03   REPRESENTATIONS OF COMPANY.
   The Company agrees to provide, construct, install, and maintain its entire
system pursuant to Iowa Utilities Board rules and regulations in such condition
that it will furnish safe, adequate, efficient, and continuous service. The
Company’s system shall be of sufficient capacity to supply all reasonable
demands of the City and consumers within the City and to provide a reasonable
reserve for emergencies. All electric energy service shall be supplied through
a meter or other means that shall accurately measure the amount of electric
energy supplied to a consumer. All poles, wires, conduits, and appliances shall
be placed and maintained so as not to interfere unnecessarily with travel on
the City’s streets, alleys, and public places or with the proper use of the
same, including ordinary drainage, or with the construction or use of the
sewers, pipes, drains, and other property of the City, or the flow of water
therefrom.
111.04   LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   The Company shall not locate any new electrical distribution or service
line, including poles or other facilities, within the City in the public right-
of-way without the prior approval of the City; however, the City shall not
unreasonably withhold approval of Company’s location of Company facilities
within public right-of-way. The City reserves to itself the power to impose
reasonable regulations on the Company’s use of streets. The City reserves the
right, by resolution or otherwise, to designate the location of any new
electric distribution or service line, including poles and other facilities,
which designation shall not conflict with Company’s adherence to its design
standards and such utility regulation as governs its construction of
facilities. The City shall work with the Company to ensure, to the extent
practicable, that the Company may locate its facilities in the least-cost
manner consistent with its design standards and utility regulations and
consistent with the City’s desire to promote the public safety and welfare and
protect public property. The Company shall, at its cost and expense, locate and
relocate its installations in, on, over, or under any public street or alley in
the City in such manner as the City may, at any time, reasonably require for
the purposes of facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, or
repair of the street or alley, or any public improvement of, in, or about any
such street or alley, or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any
such improvement.
111.05   EXCAVATIONS AND OTHER WORK.
   In making excavations or performing other work in the City, the Company
shall proceed with such work so as to cause the least possible inconvenience to
the public. The Company shall properly protect, according to safety standards
generally accepted at the time of placement, all excavations and obstructions
by proper shoring, surface plates, barricades, warning lights, and such other
or additional devices as circumstances may warrant. The Company shall provide
the City with 24 hours’ notice to the City prior to commencing work that
requires the excavation of the traveled portion of the streets, avenues, or
alleys. Emergency repairs are exempted from this notification requirement. The
Company shall notify the City of the emergency repair following the completion
of said emergency repairs. If, in the opinion of the City’s Public Works
Department, such excavation or obstruction is not properly and safely
protected, the City’s Public Works Department shall notify the Company, and the
Company shall immediately comply with such reasonable instructions not in
conflict with accepted utility safety rules and practices. Company excavations
within the public rights-of-way, public areas, and private property within the
City shall be refilled within a reasonable time thereafter consistent with
accepted utility safety rules and practices. Pavements, sidewalks, curbs,
gutters, vegetation, or landscape opened, disturbed, or damaged by the Company
shall be promptly restored and replaced with like materials by the Company, at
its own expense, and left in a condition as good as or better than before. In
the event that the Company fails to comply with this section, the City may do
such work as may be needed to properly prepare such pavements, sidewalks,
curbs, gutters, vegetation, or landscape, and the cost of such repairs shall be
repaid to the City by the Company. The Company is authorized and empowered to
prune or remove, at Company expense, any tree extending into any street, alley,
or public grounds in order to maintain electric reliability and safety, to
restore utility service, and to prevent limbs, branches, or trunks from
interfering with the wires and facilities of the Company. The pruning and
removal of trees, as well as all other vegetation management activities
undertaken by the Company, shall be in compliance with standards established in
Chapter 151, the Company’s Electric Facility Inspection and Vegetation
Management Plan on file with the Iowa Utilities Board, and the rules and
regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board or its successor.
111.06   RATES.
   The Company shall supply electric energy to consumers within the City at
just and reasonable rates. It is recognized that under the statutes of the
State, the Iowa Utilities Board of the Iowa Department of Commerce is vested
with legal authority to supervise, fix or change rates and charges authorized
to be charged by the Company to electric energy consumers. In the event rates
or charges in general, or any class or type of rate or charge shall, during the
term of this franchise, cease to be regulated by any State or federal agency,
the Council reserves the right to regulate such rates within the City with the
costs of such regulation to be borne by the Company, as a part of the Company’s
cost of doing business and reflected in its rates.
111.07   ANNUAL REPORT.
   Upon request by the City, the Company shall file with the Council a true
copy of the annual report of the Company pertaining to the operation or conduct
of the business of the Company under this franchise. The report may be the same
as the Company shall have prepared for such year in the ordinary course of
business of the Company and filed with the Iowa Utilities Board. In the event
the Council is authorized by State law and undertakes to regulate rates for
service within the City, the Company shall provide all information necessary to
permit the Council to set just and reasonable rates.
111.08   INSPECTION OF COMPANY FACILITIES.
   The Company shall inspect its electric lines and other facilities used to
provide electric service under this franchise in compliance with standards
established by the Company’s Electric Facility Inspection and Vegetation
Management Plan on file with the Iowa Utilities Board and the rules and
regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board, or its successor. The replacement or
repair of electric facilities resulting from these inspections shall be
completed within a reasonable period of time thereafter. Hazardous conditions
shall be corrected promptly.
111.09   COMPLIANCE WITH CITY ORDINANCES.
   The Company shall at all times during the term of this franchise conform
with, submit to, and carry out the provisions of any and all valid ordinances
in effect during the term of this franchise, to the full extent allowed by law,
and to the extent such provisions are not in conflict with this franchise
agreement:
   1.   Relating to any person, firm, or corporation supplying and distributing
electric energy to the City or consumers within the City that are now in force
or may hereafter be lawfully enacted;
   2.   Relating to the use of City right-of-way; or
   3.   Relating to the City’s exercise of its police or regulatory powers.
111.10   FRANCHISE FEE.
   In consideration of the right to construct and maintain such facilities and
equipment along, upon, across, and under the streets, highways, avenues,
alleys, bridges, and public places of the City, there is hereby imposed upon
the Company by the City, and the Company agrees that there shall be collected
from Company’s retail customers, in accordance with Company tariffs on file
with and approved by the Iowa Utilities Board, and remitted by the Company to
the City, a franchise fee in an amount up to and including five percent of the
gross receipts derived by the Company from the transmission, distribution, or
sale of electric energy to retail customers within the corporate limits of the
City (excluding, however, the sale of electric energy to the City for its own
use), commencing with gross receipts received on or after the effective date of
this franchise. The specific percentage levels for the franchise fee shall be
established by separate ordinance and may be different for diverse customer
classes. The obligation to pay the fee imposed by this section is modified if:
   1.   The City permits any other person to sell electrical energy to City
consumers and pay a franchise fee or its lawful equivalent at a lesser rate
than provided in this section, in which case the Company shall collect from its
customers and pay at the lesser rate; or
   2.   The City adds additional territory by annexation or consolidation and
is unable lawfully to impose the franchise fee upon any person selling
electrical energy to consumers within the additional territory, in which case
the franchise fee on the revenue from sales by the Company in the additional
territory shall be equal to that of the lowest fee being paid by any other
person selling or transmitting electrical energy within the additional
territory.
111.11   EXEMPTION FROM PAYMENT OF FRANCHISE FEE.
   If the franchise fee or the Company’s ability to collect the fee from its
customers is adjudged to be unlawful, invalid, or unconstitutional by final
non-appealable regulatory or judicial action, the Company shall be relieved of
its obligation to collect from its customers and to remit to the City the
franchise fee, the franchise fee shall be deemed to be of no further force and
effect as of the date of such adjudication, and the City may request amendments
to the franchise. If a refund to customers by the Company is ordered by such
final non-appealable adjudication, the City agrees to repay to the Company such
fees as are ordered to be refunded. If the parties are unable to agree to amend
the franchise within a reasonable time after the City requests amendments
thereto, the City may terminate the franchise.
111.12   REMITTANCE OF FRANCHISE FEE.
   The Company shall remit the franchise fee to the City Treasurer quarterly on
or before May 1, August 1, November 1, and February 1 of each year for the
three-month periods ending March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31,
respectively.
111.13   FORFEITURE OF FRANCHISE; CURE OF DEFAULTS.
   The violation of any material portion of this franchise by the Company, or
its successors or assigns, or its failure to promptly perform any of the
provisions of this franchise, shall be cause for forfeiture of this franchise
and the termination of all rights under this franchise. Such forfeiture shall
be accomplished after written notice to the Company by the City, and a
continuation of the violation, failure, or default specified in the notice, for
at least 60 days from the date the notice was served upon the Company. If
either party determines that there is a default under this franchise, the other
party shall be given a written notice describing the default, stating whether a
forfeiture or termination of the franchise will be sought, and where the
default is curable, providing a reasonable time to cure the default, which
shall be not less than 30 or more than 180 days.
111.14   RESERVATION OF HOME RULE POWERS.
   This chapter is intended to be and shall be construed as consistent with the
reservation of local authority contained in the Twenty-Fifth Amendment to the
State Constitution granting home rule powers to municipalities. To such end,
any limitation on the power of the City is to be strictly construed, and the
City reserves to itself the right to exercise all power and authority to
regulate and control its local affairs, and all ordinances and regulations of
the City shall be enforceable against the Company unless, and only to the
extent, they are irreconcilable with any rights granted to the Company under
this chapter.
111.15   MAPS OF DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   Upon reasonable request, Company shall provide to the City Engineer, on a
project specific basis, information indicating the horizontal location, in
compliance with One-Call regulation, relative to the boundaries of the right-
of-way, of all equipment which it owns or over which it has control and which
is located in the project right-of-way. Project-specific mapping data shall be
provided with the specificity and, if reasonably possible in the format
requested by the City Engineer. Mapping information provided to the City by the
Company shall be for the exclusive use of the City in administering the use and
occupancy of the public rights-of-way within the City and shall not be provided
to or relied on by any person for any other purpose. At the request of the
Company, any information requested with respect to the location or type of
equipment the Company maintains or plans to install in the right-of-way that
qualifies or is designated by the Company as proprietary information or as a
trade-secret information under Chapter 550 of the Code of Iowa, or qualifies to
be kept confidential under Section 22.1 of the Code of Iowa, et seq., shall be
treated as confidential information or a trade secret and shall not be released
to any party by the City.
111.16   CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEYS.
   At the request of the City, the Company shall provide the City with
summaries of the findings of its annual and other periodic customer
satisfaction surveys and research. The Company also agrees to respond promptly
and fully to the City’s concerns and questions about specific service quality
and customer satisfaction matters as and when they are communicated to the
Company.
111.17   EXERCISE OF EMINENT DOMAIN POWERS.
   The Company shall have the power to condemn private property for the purpose
of providing electric utilities to the extent necessary to serve a public use
and in a reasonable relationship to an overall plan of transmitting electricity
in the public interest upon approval of the Council. The Company must establish
the necessity for each taking of private property, and when so established, the
Council may approve the condemnation of the private property by resolution. Any
such exercise of the eminent domain powers shall be conducted in accordance
with this Code.
111.18   INDEMNITY.
   The Company shall indemnify and hold the City and its officers, agents, and
employees free and harmless from any and all claims, demands, lawsuits,
liability, and damages whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident
thereto, for any and all loss, damage, injury, or death caused or occasioned,
in whole or in part, by the Company’s negligence in construction,
reconstruction, excavation, operation, or maintenance of the electric
facilities authorized by this franchise; provided, however, the Company shall
not be obligated to defend, indemnify, and save harmless the City for any costs
or damages arising from the negligence of the City, its officers, employees, or
agents.
111.19   LEASE OR ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE.
   This franchise shall apply to, inure to, and bind the parties hereto and
their successors.
CHAPTER 112
FRANCHISE FEES
 
112.01 Electric Franchise Fee 112.03 Gas Sold by Third-Party Suppliers
112.02 Gas Franchise Fee      112.04 Exemptions
 
112.01   ELECTRIC FRANCHISE FEE.
   Commencing with electric bills rendered by MidAmerican Energy Company (the
“Company”) to utility customers within the corporate limits of the City on or
after May 1, 2005, and for so long as the franchise granted by Ordinance No.
05-01 is in effect, there is hereby imposed on the Company, and it shall be the
Company’s obligation to collect from its customers and remit to the City, a
franchise fee in an amount equal to a percentage of the gross receipts, minus
uncollectible amounts, derived by the Company from the transmission,
distribution, and sale of electric energy to retail customers within the
corporate limits of the City at the following percentage levels:
   1.   Residential Customers - five percent.
   2.   Commercial Customers - three percent.
   3.   Public Authority Customers (other than the City and public schools) -
three percent.
112.02   GAS FRANCHISE FEE.
   Commencing with natural gas bills rendered by the Company to its customers
within the corporate limits of the City on or after May 1, 2005, and for so
long as the franchise granted by Ordinance No. 05-02 is in effect, there is
hereby imposed on the Company, and it shall be the Company’s obligation to
collect from its customers and remit to the City, a franchise fee in an amount
equal to a percentage of the gross receipts, minus uncollectible amounts,
derived by the Company from the transmission, distribution, transportation, and
sale of natural gas to retail customers within the corporate limits of the City
at the following percentage levels:
   1.   Residential Customers - five percent.
   2.   Commercial Customers - three percent.
   3.   Public Authority Customers (other than the City and public schools) -
three percent.
112.03   GAS SOLD BY THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS.
   With respect to the distribution or transportation by the Company of natural
gas sold to the customer by a third-party supplier of the commodity, the
percentage of gross receipts shall be applied to the customer’s full cost of
gas delivered within the City, including all costs of acquisition, ownership,
and transportation whereof, wherever incurred. In determining the amount of the
fee, the Company may presume that the customer’s commodity cost of gas is the
same as if the gas were sold by the Company, unless a different cost is
provided.
112.04   EXEMPTIONS.
   Gross receipts derived from the transmission, distribution, transportation,
and sale of natural gas and the transmission, distribution, and sale of
electric energy to public schools and to the City for its own use are exempt
from the franchise fee, and the franchise fee shall not be assessed to such
customers.
CHAPTER 113
CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS
113.01 Compliance with Applicable Laws  113.18 Color Cablecasting
113.02 Installation and Maintenance of  113.19 Program Alteration
Property
113.03 Interference                     113.20 Subscriber Rates and Charges
113.04 Installation of Cables           113.21 Service Rules and Regulations
113.05 City Use of Existing Poles       113.22 Service Agreements
113.06 Prior Approval of Underground    113.23 Office of Cable Operator
Installations
113.07 Restoration of Ground Surface    113.24 Procedure to Handle Complaints
                                        and Grievances
113.08 Alteration of Grade              113.25 Injury to Property of the Cable
                                        Operator
113.09 Temporary Removal of Cables      113.26 Intercepting Signals of the
                                        Cable Operator
113.10 Tree Trimming                    113.27 Filing of Reports
113.11 Service Requirements             113.28 Filing of Audit
113.12 Performance Standards            113.29 Filing of Maps and Plats
113.13 Channel Capacity and Performance 113.30 Filing of Communications with
                                        Regulatory Agencies
113.14 Subscriber Terminals in City     113.31 Access
Buildings and Schools
113.15 Use of Education and Local       113.32 Discrimination Prohibited
Government Access Channels
113.16 Emergency Warning System         113.33 Other Business Activities
                                        Prohibited
113.17 Telecast of Educational          113.34 Franchise Fee
Activities
 
113.01   COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS.
   The cable operator shall comply with all governmental laws, ordinances,
rules, or regulations as may now or hereafter be applicable to the
construction, operation, maintenance, repair, replacement, renewal,
reconstruction, and removal of a cable television system, the sale and supply
of audio and video communications services, the use of public property and
private property, and the engagement in such further activities as may now or
hereafter be consistent with generally accepted principles applicable to the
operation of a cable television system.
113.02   INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY.
   The property of the cable operator shall be constructed, operated,
maintained, repaired, replaced, renewed, reconstructed, and removed in
accordance with generally accepted engineering principles so as not to endanger
or interfere with the lives of persons or to interfere with improvements which
the City may deem proper to make, or to unnecessarily hinder or obstruct
pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or use of public property or private property.
113.03   INTERFERENCE.
   The cable operator’s cable television system shall be so designed,
engineered, and maintained so as not to interfere with the radio and television
reception of persons who are not subscribers of the cable operator.
113.04   INSTALLATION OF CABLES.
   The cable operator shall have the right, privilege, and authority to lease,
rent, or in any other manner obtain the use of wooden poles with overhead
lines, conduits, trenches, ducts, lines, cable, and other equipment and
facilities from any and all holders of public licenses and franchises within
the City, and to use such poles, conduits, trenches, ducts, lines, and cable in
the course of its business. The cable operator shall install its cable on
existing poles owned by other holders of public licenses and franchises with
the City whenever possible for the installation of its cable. When installation
of cable on poles is insufficient, or when the holder of another public license
or franchise has installed underground cable, then in that event, the cable
used by the cable operator shall be installed underground.
113.05   CITY USE OF EXISTING POLES.
   The City shall and does hereby retain the right to utilize the existing
poles for future City use, and to require the removal of the cable by the cable
operator where existing poles are not sufficient to adequately handle the
proposed City use and the cable operator’s cable.
113.06   PRIOR APPROVAL OF UNDERGROUND INSTALLATIONS.
   The cable operator shall submit detailed drawings of all proposed
underground cable installations to the City for approval prior to commencement
of construction and shall not deviate therefrom without approval of the City.
113.07   RESTORATION OF GROUND SURFACE.
   In case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk, driveway, or other
surfacing, the cable operator shall, at its own cost and expense, and in a
manner approved by the City, replace and restore all paving, sidewalk,
driveway, or surface of any street or alley disturbed in as good a condition as
before said work was commenced.
113.08   ALTERATION OF GRADE.
   In the event that the City shall elect to alter or change the grade of any
street, alley, or public way, the cable operator, upon reasonable notice by the
City, shall remove, relay, and relocate its poles, wires, cables, underground
conduits, manholes, and other fixtures at its own expense.
113.09   TEMPORARY REMOVAL OF CABLES.
   The cable operator shall, on the request of any person holding a building
permit issued by the City, temporarily raise or lower its cables to permit the
moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary removal, raising, or
lowering of cables shall be paid by the person requesting the same and the
cable operator shall have the authority to require such payment in advance. The
cable operator shall be given not less than five days’ advance notice to
arrange for such temporary cable changes.
113.10   TREE TRIMMING.
   The cable operator shall have the authority to trim trees upon and
overhanging streets, alleys, sidewalks, and public places of the City so as to
prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with the cable of the
cable operator. All trimming shall be done under the supervision and direction
of the City and at the expense of the cable operator.
113.11   SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.
   The cable operator shall furnish reasonable, adequate, and efficient cable
television service to subscriber terminals. The foregoing requirement may be
temporarily suspended due to circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the
cable operator.
113.12   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   The cable operator shall produce a picture in black and white or in color
that is undistorted, free from ghost images, and accompanied by proper sound on
typical standard television sets in good repair. The cable operator shall also
transmit signals of adequate strength to produce good pictures with good sound
at all subscriber terminals throughout the City without causing cross
modulation in the cables or interfering with other electrical or electronic
systems.
113.13   CHANNEL CAPACITY AND PERFORMANCE.
   The cable television system of the cable operator shall conform to the
channel capacity and performance requirements contained in the then current
regulations of the FCC.
113.14   SUBSCRIBER TERMINALS IN CITY BUILDINGS AND SCHOOLS.
   The cable operator shall, at its sole cost, install and maintain subscriber
terminals in such buildings owned or used by the City, and in such buildings
owned or used by recognized educational authorities within the City, both
public and private, as may be designated by the governing body having
jurisdiction thereof. Such subscriber terminals shall be placed in such
location or locations within such buildings as may be designated by the
governing body having jurisdiction thereof.
113.15   USE OF EDUCATION AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACCESS CHANNELS.
   The cable operator shall, at its sole cost, make available to the City, or
its assigns, at least one channel to be used by the City, or its assigns, for
any purpose. The cable operator shall, at its sole cost, make available to
recognized educational authorities within the City, both public and private, at
least one channel to be used by them for any purpose. The cable operator shall,
at its sole cost, make available to the City and recognized educational
authorities within the City, both public and private, at reasonable times and
on reasonable notice, the use of its studio, other production facilities, and
related equipment for origination cablecasting. In addition, thereto, the cable
operator shall provide, at its sole cost, such technical assistance as may be
reasonably necessary to produce such origination cablecasting.
113.16   EMERGENCY WARNING SYSTEM.
   The cable operator shall equip its cable television system with an emergency
warning override so that emergency information can be given simultaneously on
all channels of the system. During an emergency, the cable operator shall allow
the City the complete use of the system.
113.17   TELECAST OF EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES.
   The cable operator shall not cablecast, tape, reproduce, or otherwise convey
to its subscribers the activities of any recognized educational authority,
public or private, without the written consent of the governing body of such
authority.
113.18   COLOR CABLECASTING.
   The cable television system of the cable operator shall be capable of color
cablecasting. Any signal received by the cable operator in color shall be
cablecast in color.
113.19   PROGRAM ALTERATION.
   Any signal received by the cable operator from a television broadcast
station shall be cablecast by the cable operator in its entirety, as received,
without alteration.
113.20   SUBSCRIBER RATES AND CHARGES.
   All rates for service shall be reasonable, compensatory, and
nondiscriminatory.
113.21   SERVICE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The cable operator shall have the right to prescribe reasonable service
rules and regulations and operating rules for the conduct of its business. The
cable operator shall file such rules and regulations, and all amendments
thereto, with the City.
113.22   SERVICE AGREEMENTS.
   The cable operator shall have the right to prescribe a reasonable form of
service agreement for use between the cable operator and its subscribers. The
cable operator shall submit its proposed form of service agreement, and all
proposed amendments thereto, to the City for approval.
113.23   OFFICE OF CABLE OPERATOR.
   The cable operator shall maintain an office within the County for the
purpose of receiving, investigating, and responding to complaints and
grievances with respect to the quality of the service rendered by the cable
operator, equipment malfunctions, and other similar matters pertaining to the
cable television system of the cable operator.
113.24   PROCEDURE TO HANDLE COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES.
   The procedure to handle complaints and grievances with respect to the
quality of the services rendered by the cable operator, equipment malfunctions,
and other similar matters pertaining to the cable television system of the
cable operator shall be as follows:
   1.   Filing of Complaint. Within 30 days after the occurrence of the facts
and circumstances giving rise to a complaint or grievance, and not thereafter,
the complainant shall state the complaint or grievance to the cable operator in
writing. In the event that a complaint or grievance is received by the City,
the City shall forward such complaint or grievance to the cable operator in
writing.
   2.   Response by Cable Operator. Within five days after the receipt of a
complaint or grievance to the cable operator, the cable operator shall state to
the complainant its intentions with respect to the complaint or grievance in
writing.
   3.   Arbitration. In the event that the complaint or grievance is not
resolved to the satisfaction of the complainant within 15 days after the
receipt thereof by the cable operator, the complaint or grievance shall be
settled by arbitration. Such arbitration shall be before three disinterested
arbitrators, one named by the complainant, one named by the cable operator, and
one named by the two thus chosen. The decision of the arbitrators shall be
conclusive and shall be enforced in accordance with the laws of the State.
   On or before the tenth day of each calendar month, the cable operator shall
file a report in writing with the City stating the date and substance of each
complaint or grievance received by it during the preceding calendar month, the
date and nature of the action taken by the cable operator with respect thereto,
and, if still pending, the status thereof.
113.25   INJURY TO PROPERTY OF THE CABLE OPERATOR.
   No person shall wrongfully or unlawfully injure the property of the cable
operator.
113.26   INTERCEPTING SIGNALS OF THE CABLE OPERATOR.
   No person shall wrongfully or unlawfully intercept the signals of the cable
operator.
113.27   FILING OF REPORTS.
   On or before April 1 of each year, the cable operator shall file with the
City copies of FCC Form 325 and FCC Form 326 for the preceding calendar year.
113.28   FILING OF AUDIT.
   On or before April 1 of each year, the cable operator shall file with the
City an audit of its operations within the City during the preceding calendar
year.
113.29   FILING OF MAPS AND PLATS.
   On or before April 1 of each year, the cable operator shall file with the
City maps and plats showing the location and nature of all property of the
cable operator within the City as of the end of the preceding calendar year.
113.30   FILING OF COMMUNICATIONS WITH REGULATORY AGENCIES.
   The cable operator shall file with the City copies of all petitions,
applications, and communications submitted by the cable operator to any
regulatory agency having jurisdiction over the cable operator.
113.31   ACCESS.
   The cable operator shall and does hereby grant to the City the right to
enter upon the property of the cable operator, upon reasonable notice, at any
and all reasonable times to inspect the same for purposes pertaining to the
rights of the City.
113.32   DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   The cable operator shall not grant any undue preference or advantage to any
person or subject any person to prejudice or disadvantage with respect to
rates, charges, services, service facilities, rules, regulations, or in any
other respect.
113.33   OTHER BUSINESS ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   The cable operator shall not engage in the business of selling, leasing,
renting, or servicing television or radio receivers, or their parts and
accessories, and the cable operator shall not require or attempt to direct its
subscribers to deal with any particular person or firm with respect to said
activities.
113.34   FRANCHISE FEE.
   On or before April 1 of each year the cable operator shall pay to the City,
at the office of the City, in lawful money of the United States, a franchise
fee based upon a percentage of the gross subscriber receipts received by the
cable operator from the operation of its cable television system within the
City during the preceding calendar year. Such fee shall be based on such
percentage of said gross receipts as may be approved by the FCC, but in no
event shall the same be less than five percent of said gross receipts. Any
franchise fee not paid when due shall bear interest at the rate of nine percent
per annum from the date due. The franchise fee shall not be considered to be in
the nature of a tax.
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01 License or Permit Required 120.04 Action by Council
120.02 General Prohibition        120.05 Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.03 Investigation              120.06 Amusement Devices
 
120.01   LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for
sale, alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a retail alcohol
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122, and 123.171)
120.02   GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer, or keep for sale,
possess, or transport alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer except upon the terms,
conditions, limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code
of Iowa, and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty
may be imposed for a violation thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39, and 123.50)
120.03   INVESTIGATION.
   Upon receipt of an application for a retail alcohol license, the Clerk may
forward it to the Police Chief, who shall then conduct an investigation and
submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred in the
application. The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to determine if they
conform to the requirements of the City. The Council shall not approve an
application for a license for any premises that does not conform to the
applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
120.04   ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of a retail
alcohol license, shall endorse its approval or disapproval on the application,
and shall forward the application with the necessary fee and bond, if required,
to the Iowa Department of Revenue.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32(2))
120.05   PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
A person holding a retail alcohol license and the person’s agents or employees
shall not do any of the following:
   1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(1))
   2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license, or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and
6:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(b))
   3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona
fide credit card. This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its
members, to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests, or to
retail sales by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or
events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(c))
   4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold, except as
follows:
      A.   Definitions. For use in this subsection the following terms are
defined as follows:
         (1)   “Bar” means an establishment where one may purchase alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises and in which the serving of food is
only incidental to the consumption of those beverages.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 142D.2(1))
         (2)   “Restaurant” means eating establishments, including private and
public school cafeterias, which offer food to the public, guests, or employees,
including the kitchen and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere, and including a bar area within a restaurant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 142D.2(17))
      B.   This subsection shall not apply if the employer has, on file,
written permission from the parent, guardian, or legal custodian of a person 16
or 17 years of age for the person to sell or serve alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises where sold. However, a person 16 or 17 years of age
shall not work in a bar as defined in Paragraph A.
         (1)   The employer shall keep a copy of the written permission on file
until the person is either 18 years of age or no longer engaged in the sale of
or serving alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
         (2)   If written permission is on file in accordance with Paragraph B,
a person 16 or 17 years of age may sell or serve alcoholic beverages in a
restaurant as defined above in Paragraph A during the hours in which the
restaurant serves food.
      C.   A person 16 or 17 years of age shall not sell or serve alcoholic
beverages under this subsection unless at least two employees 18 years of age
or older are physically present in the area where alcoholic beverages are sold
or served.
      D.   If a person employed under this subsection reports an incident of
workplace harassment to the employer or if the employer otherwise becomes aware
of such an incident, the employer shall report the incident to the employee’s
parent, guardian, or legal custodian and to the Iowa Civil Rights Commission,
which shall determine if any action is necessary or appropriate under Chapter
216 of the Code of Iowa.
      E.   An employer that employs a person under this subsection shall
require the person to attend training on prevention and response to sexual
harassment upon commencing employment.
      F.   Prior to a person commencing employment under this subsection, the
employer shall notify the employer’s dramshop liability insurer, in a form and
time period prescribed by the Director, that the employer is employing a person
under this subsection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(f))
   5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the
mixing or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any
other beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(i))
   6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(a))
   7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(j))
   8.   Keep on premises covered by a retail alcohol license any alcoholic
liquor in any container except the original package purchased from the State
Department of Revenue and except mixed drinks or cocktails mixed on the
premises for immediate consumption. However, mixed drinks or cocktails that are
mixed on the premises and are not for immediate consumption may be consumed on
the licensed premises, subject to Section 123.49, Subsection 2, Paragraph D,
Subparagraphs (2), (3), and (4) of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(d)(2), (3), and (4))
   9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or
receptacle used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or
adulterate, by the addition of any substance, the contents, or remaining
contents of an original package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly
possess any original package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(e))
   10.   Allow any person other than the licensee or employees of the licensee
to use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic liquor in any bottle or
other container that is designed for the transporting of such beverages, except
as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(g))
   11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(k))
   12.   Sell, offer to sell, dispense, or serve for on-premises consumption an
unlimited number of servings of alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer for a fixed
price. Nothing in this Subsection 12 shall be construed to prohibit a holder of
an on-premises liquor control license or wine or beer permit, or its employees
or agents, from:
      A.   Including drinks containing an alcoholic beverage or beer as part of
a hotel or motel package which includes overnight accommodations; or
      B.   Providing a fixed price for an unlimited number or indefinite
quantity of drinks containing an alcoholic beverage or beer for a private
event. A private event is defined as an event restricted to a particular group
or persons, provided that the licensee or permittee shall provide means or
method by which to identify persons participating in the private event, such as
the use of a separate room or an identification tag or badge; or
      C.   As otherwise permitted for a special event by the Council (provided,
however, that no license or permit holder shall be allowed to hold such a
special event under this paragraph C more than twice per calendar year).
120.06   AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement
devices possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa.
(Said devices are allowed only in premises with a retail alcohol license, as
specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
   1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical
or mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation
of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under
the age of 21.
**** CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS ****
 
121.01 Definitions     121.07 Expiration
121.02 Permit Required 121.08 Refunds
121.03 Application     121.09 Persons Under Legal Age
121.04 City Approval   121.10 Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.05 Fees            121.11 Permit Revocation
121.06 Issuance
 
121.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
   1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of
tobacco, or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and
irrespective of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored,
adulterated, or mixed with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper
or cover made of paper or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be
construed to include cigars.
   3.   “Department” means the State Department of Revenue.
   4.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
   5.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes, or offers for
sale for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
   6.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement,
or storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of
the product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or
employee of the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access
location.
   7.   “State permit” means and includes all permits issued by the department
under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa except the permits issued to retailers
approved by cities and counties pursuant to Section 453A.13 and 453.47A of the
Code of Iowa.
   8.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars;
cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and
other smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and
other chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and
sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such
manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for
both chewing and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
   9.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13(1))
   2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A(1))
   A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also
obtain a retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail
cigarette permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the
retailer shall not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products, during such time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A(4))
121.03   APPLICATION.
   A retailer shall submit to the department an application on forms furnished
by the department, accompanied by the required fees and adequate bond as
provided in Section 453A.14, of the Code of Iowa. Applications, any supporting
documentation, and the associated fees shall be submitted electronically to the
department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13(5))
121.04   CITY APPROVAL.
   The City shall approve retail permit applications for applicants with a
place of business within the City limits. The City shall use the electronic
portal of the department to process retail permit applications. Upon approval
of a retail permit application by the City the department shall issue the
permit to the applicant on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13(2))
121.05   FEES.
   The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:    FEE:
July, August, or September     $75.00
October, November, or December $56.25
January, February, or March    $37.50
April, May, or June            $18.75
 
121.06   ISSUANCE.
   Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for which it
is issued and shall be nonassignable.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13(9))
121.07   EXPIRATION.
   All permits shall expire on June 30 of each year. A permit shall not be
granted or issued until the applicant has paid the fees to the department for
the next period ending on June 30.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13(3)(a))
121.08   REFUNDS.
   A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.09   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
   A person shall not sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any
person under 21 years of age. The provision of this section includes
prohibiting a person under 21 years of age from purchasing tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, and cigarettes from a
vending machine. If a retailer or employee of a retailer violates the
provisions of this section, the Council shall, after written notice and
hearing, and in addition to the other penalties fixed for such violation,
assess the following:
   1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty
in the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under
this subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period
of 14 days.
   2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
   3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
   4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
   5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s
permit shall be revoked.
   The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a
copy of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application
for a permit. The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and
the time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22, and 453A.36(6))
121.10   SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
   Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36(6) of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.11   PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by
the Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a retail
permit to the Iowa Department of Revenue within 30 days of the revocation or
suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
122.01 Definitions             122.10 Revocation of Permit
122.02 Permit Required         122.11 Notice
122.03 Application for Permit  122.12 Hearing
122.04 Permit Fees             122.13 Record and Determination
122.05 Bonds Required          122.14 Appeal
122.06 Permit Issued           122.15 Effect of Revocation
122.07 Display of Permit       122.16 Rebates
122.08 Permit Not Transferable 122.17 Permit Exemptions
122.09 Time Restriction        122.18 Prohibited Acts
 
122.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Peddler” means any person, carrying goods or merchandise or offering
services who sells or offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods,
merchandise, or services from house to house or upon the public street or
right-of-way.
   2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits, or attempts to solicit, from
house to house or upon the public street or right-of-way any contribution or
donation or any order for goods, services, subscriptions, or merchandise to be
delivered at a future date.
   3.   “Panhandler” means any solicitation made in person requesting an
immediate donation of money or other thing of value. Purchase of an item for an
amount far exceeding its value, under circumstances where a reasonable person
would understand that the purchase is in substance a donation, is a donation
for the purpose of this section. Panhandling does not include passively
standing or sitting, without addressing any solicitation to any specific
person.
   4.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and, in the course of such business, hires,
leases, or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out
of a vehicle which is parked anywhere within the City limits. Temporary
association with a local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer, or conduct of
such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting, or panhandling or in the
business of a transient merchant in the City without first obtaining a permit
as herein provided is in violation of this chapter.
122.03   APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   An application in writing shall be filed with the Police Chief for a permit
under this chapter. The applicant shall provide the following information:
   1.   Applicant’s name;
   2.   Permanent and local address and contact information;
   3.   Business address, if any;
   4.   Physical description and a government-issued photo I.D.;
   5.   Applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address;
   6.   The nature of the applicant’s business;
   7.   The last three places of such business;
   8.   The length of time sought to be covered by the permit;
   9.   Whether applicant has been listed on any sex offender registry within
the last five years;
   10.   Whether applicant has had a peddler, solicitor, panhandling, or
transient merchant permit suspended, revoked, or denied by this or any other
city in the last five years and the reasons therefore;
   11.   License plate numbers of applicants; and
   12.   Current headshot of applicant. Photos may be posted to the City’s
website and social media to allow for resident identification.
122.04   PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees in amounts set in the Fee Schedule shall be paid to the Police
Chief, or their designee, prior to the issuance of any permit. There is no
permit fee in conjunction with City sponsored events or activities.
122.05   BONDS REQUIRED.
   1.   Before a permit under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant,
an applicant shall provide to the Police Chief evidence that the applicant has
filed a bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 9C of the
Code of Iowa.
   2.   At the time of filing of the application and as a part thereof, any
applicant without a place of residence or place of business in the State shall
file with the Police Chief a bond, with sureties to be approved by the Police
Chief, in a penal sum of $1,000.00 running to the City, for the use and benefit
of any purchaser of any merchandise from such transient merchant who might have
a cause of action of any nature arising from or out of such sale against the
applicant or applicant’s employer. The bond is to be further conditioned for
the payment of any fines that may be assessed by any court against the
applicant for a violation of this chapter and further conditioned for the
payment and satisfaction of any and all causes of action against the applicant
commenced within one year from the date of sale of any merchandise. The
aggregate liability of the surety for all fines and causes of action shall not
exceed the principal sum of the bond.
122.06   PERMIT ISSUED.
   The Police Chief, upon review of the permit application with the Police
Department and any other appropriate department or agency, shall determine
whether a permit will be issued to the applicant. A waiting period of not less
than three business days from the date of the application shall be in effect to
provide sufficient time for the fact-gathering process to be completed in a
reasonable period. In making their decision, the following factors shall be
considered:
   1.   The information in the application is found to be correct.
   2.   All information required has been provided and the application is
complete.
   3.   The required bond is paid.
   4.   Prior peddler, solicitor, panhandler, or transient merchant permits
issued to applicant and whether any such permits were suspended or revoked.
   If the determination is made that the application satisfies the above
factors and the applicant is not a risk to public safety, a permit shall be
issued upon payment of the bond and any other fees set forth in the schedule of
fees adopted by the Council by resolution. A denial of a permit may be appealed
in the same manner and under the same procedures stated at Section
122.14.
122.07   DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   Each peddler, solicitor, and panhandler shall keep such permit in possession
at all times while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of
prospective customers, exhibit the permit as evidence of compliance with all
requirements of this chapter. Each transient merchant shall display publicly
such merchant’s permit in the merchant’s place of business.
122.08   PERMIT NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Permits issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.09   TIME RESTRICTION.
   All peddler, solicitor, and panhandler permits shall provide that said
permits are in force and effect Monday through Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 7:00
p.m. and Sunday from 12:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.
122.10   REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   After notice and hearing, the Police Chief may revoke any permit issued
under this chapter for the following reasons:
   1.   Fraudulent Statements. The permit holder has made fraudulent statements
in the application for the permit or in the conduct of the business.
   2.   Violation of Law. The permit holder has violated this chapter or has
otherwise conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
   3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety. The permit holder has
conducted the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare,
safety, order, or morals.
122.11   NOTICE.
   The permit holder shall be served with written notice containing particulars
of any complaint against the permit holder, the ordinance provisions or State
statutes allegedly violated, and the date, time, and place for hearing on the
matter.
122.12   HEARING.
   The Police Chief, with assistance of the City Attorney, shall conduct a
hearing at which the permit holder shall be present to determine the truth of
the acts alleged in the complaint and notice. Should the permit holder, or
authorized representative, fail to appear without good cause, the Police Chief
may use the failure to appeal as evidence in support of revocation of the
permit.
122.13   RECORD AND DETERMINATION.
   The Police Chief, with advice of the City Attorney, shall make and record
findings of fact and conclusions of law, and shall revoke a permit when the
record establishes evidence of a violation of this chapter or State law.
122.14   APPEAL.
   If the Police Chief revokes or refuses to issue a permit, there shall be a
record setting forth the reasons for said decision. The permit holder or
applicant shall have a right to a hearing before the Council at one of the next
two regular meetings. The Council may reverse, modify, or affirm the decision
of the Police Chief, or their designee, by a majority vote of the Council
members present.
122.15   EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
   Revocation of any permit shall bar the permit holder from being eligible for
any permit under this chapter for a period of at least one year from the date
of the revocation.
122.16   REBATES.
   No permit holder shall be entitled to a rebate of part of the fee paid if
the permit is revoked or surrendered before it expires.
122.17   PERMIT EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
   1.   Newspapers. Persons delivering, collecting for, or selling
subscriptions to newspapers.
   2.   Club Members. Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America, and similar organizations.
   3.   Local Residents and Farmers. Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
   4.   Students. Students representing area schools or school districts
conducting projects sponsored by organizations recognized by the school.
   5.   Route Sales. Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
   6.   Resale or Institutional Use. Persons customarily calling on businesses
or institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or
institutional use.
   7.   Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations. Authorized representatives of
charitable or nonprofit organizations operating under the provisions of Chapter
504 of the Code of Iowa. All such organizations seeking to act as a peddler,
solicitor, panhandler, or transient merchant are required to submit in writing
to the Police Chief the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities
are sought, names and addresses of the officers and directors of the
organization, the period during which such activities are to be carried on, and
whether any commissions, fees, or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and
the amount thereof. If it is found that the organization is a bona fide charity
or nonprofit organization, such charity or organization shall be issued, free
of charge, a permit. In the event the permit is denied, the authorized
representatives of such charity or organization may appeal the decision to the
Council, as provided in Section 122.14.
   8.   City Employees. City Employees acting in an extension of their job
duties and with the written authorization of their employer. Permits are
required for each type of permit use, however, individual City employees are
not required to complete individual permits.
   9.   Temporary Food and Beverage Facilities. Persons who have a valid
temporary food and beverage facility permit as defined by City ordinance.
   10.   Community Event Center Lessee. Persons who possess or are authorized
merchants of the Community Event Center lessee while on the physical property
or immediately adjacent to the Community Event Center.
   11.   Religious Organizations.
   12.   Political Organizations.
   13.   Minor Businesses. An on-site transactional business traditionally
operated exclusively by a person under the age of 18, operated on an occasional
basis for no more than 89 calendar days in a calendar year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3(15))
122.18   PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It is unlawful for any person, with or without a permit under this chapter,
to conduct peddling, solicitation, panhandling, or transient merchant business:
   1.   With any person situated in a motor vehicle upon any public street,
alley, driveway access, or public way.
   2.   Upon any part of the public right-of-way or along a parade route on the
day of any permitted parade.
   3.   By blocking the path of the person solicited along a street.
   4.   By doing business or attempting to do business upon any property which
has a posted notice prohibiting peddling, solicitation, or panhandling.
   5.   By using profane or abusive language, either during the solicitation or
following a refusal.
   6.   By panhandling in a group of three or more persons.
   7.   While under the influence of alcohol or any illegal narcotic or
controlled substance.
   8.   By any statement, gesture, or other communication, which a reasonable
person in the situation of the person solicited, would perceive to be a threat,
harassment, intimidation, or coercion.
CHAPTER 123
HOUSE MOVERS
 
123.01 House Mover Defined 123.07 Permit Issued
123.02 Permit Required     123.08 Public Safety
123.03 Application         123.09 Time Limit
123.04 Bond Required       123.10 Removal by City
123.05 Insurance Required  123.11 Protect Pavement
123.06 Permit Fee          123.12 Overhead Wires
 
123.01   HOUSE MOVER DEFINED.
   A “house mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or
similar structure upon, over or across public streets or property when the
building or structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids, jacks,
dollies, or any other specialized moving equipment.
123.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of house mover as
herein defined without a valid permit from the City for each house, building,
or similar structure to be moved.
123.03   APPLICATION.
   Application for a house mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the Clerk
on a form provided by the City. The application shall include:
   1.   Name and Address. The applicant’s full name and address and, if a
corporation, the names and addresses of its principal officers.
   2.   Building Location. An accurate description of the present location and
future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.
   3.   Routing Plan. A routing plan approved by the Police Chief, Public Works
Director, and public utility officials. The route approved shall be the
shortest route compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.
123.04   BOND REQUIRED.
   The applicant shall post with the Clerk a penal bond in the minimum sum of
$5,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such bonds in the
State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any damage done to
the City or to public property, and payment of all costs incurred by the City
in the course of moving the building or structure.
123.05   INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that
the applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration
of the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:
   1.   Bodily Injury – $250,000.00 per person; $1,000,00,000.00 per accident.
   2.   Property Damage – $300,000.00 per accident.
123.06   PERMIT FEE.
   A permit fee in an amount set in the Fee Schedule. A separate permit shall
be required for each house, building, or similar structure to be moved.
123.07   PERMIT ISSUED.
   Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and insurance certificate,
and payment of the required fee, the Clerk shall issue a permit.
123.08   PUBLIC SAFETY.
   At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or public property, the permittee shall maintain flag
persons at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to
the sides, behind, and ahead of the building or structure. At all times when
the building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or
public property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights
at the intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind, and ahead of
the building or structure.
123.09   TIME LIMIT.
   No house mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to
remain upon any street or other public way for a period of more than 12 hours
without having first secured the written approval of the City.
123.10   REMOVAL BY CITY.
   In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation
of Section 123.09, the City is authorized to remove such building or structure
and assess the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the
permit holder’s bond.
123.11   PROTECT PAVEMENT.
   It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one inch in width for each 1,000 pounds of weight of such building. If
there is any question as to the weight of a house or building, the estimate of
the City as to such weight shall be final.
123.12   OVERHEAD WIRES.
   The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone,
cable television, and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and
replaced in good order and shall be liable for the costs of the same.
CHAPTER 124
PAWNBROKERS
124.01 Definitions                     124.12 Articles of Clothing
124.02 Location of Pawnbroker          124.13 Searching for Stolen Property
Businesses
124.03 Compliance with Chapter         124.14 Examination of Premises by
Provisions                             Officers
124.04 License Fees                    124.15 Hours of Operation
                                       124.16 Disposing of Stolen Goods or
124.05 License                         Goods for Which There Is an Adverse
                                       Claim
124.06 Expiration Date of License      124.17 Grounds for Revocation of License
124.07 Separate License for Each Place 124.18 Revocation Procedure
of Business
124.08 Nonpayment of License Fee       124.19 Effect of Revocation
Misdemeanor
124.09 Records                         124.20 Summary Suspension
124.10 Daily Reports to Police Chief
124.11 Prohibited Acts
 
124.01   DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a
different intention, the following terms, for the purpose of this chapter, have
the meanings given in this section:
   1.   “Negative police report” means a report or review compiled by the
Police Chief, which discloses a criminal record of a felony or any conviction
under this chapter two or more times in a calendar year or a conviction under
Chapter 714 of the Code of Iowa.
   2.   “Pawnbroker” means every person who makes loans or advancements upon
pawn, pledge, or deposit of personal property or who receives actual possession
of personal property as security for loans, with or without a mortgage or bill
of sale therein, or who, by advertisement, sign, or otherwise, holds themselves
out as a pawnbroker.
   3.   “Positive police report” means a report or review compiled by the
Police Chief, which does not disclose a criminal record of a felony or any
conviction under this chapter two or more times in a calendar year or a
conviction under Chapter 714 of the Code of Iowa.
124.02   LOCATION OF PAWNBROKER BUSINESSES.
   1.   Locations. No person, whether as principal or agent, clerk, or
employee, either for such person or any other person, or as an officer of any
corporation, or otherwise, shall place, maintain, own, or operate any pawn shop
businesses in the following locations.
      A.   In any residential area in the City, including upon any sidewalk
abutting upon such residential area;
      B.   Within 1,000 feet of any residentially zoned or used property or any
property designated on the City’s Comprehensive Plan as residentially oriented.
      C.   Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of real property upon which is
located any of the following facilities:
         (1)   An elementary school, junior high school, or senior high school.
         (2)   A church which conducts religious programs.
         (3)   Park or recreational facilities operated and approved by the
City, County, the County Conservation Board, the State, or a not-for-profit
institution.
         (4)   Federal, State, County, City, or special district governmental
offices.
         (5)   Supermarket or convenience market primarily engaged in the sale
of food.
         (6)   Restaurant, fast-food, or food establishment catering to family
trade.
      D.   Within 1,000 feet of any other pawn shop or delayed deposit service
business, as defined in Section 124.01 and Section 167.06(4).
   2.   Measurement of Distance. The distance between any two pawn shops or
delayed deposit services businesses shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard to intervening structures, from the closest exterior structural
wall of each business. The distance between any pawn shop and delayed deposit
services businesses and any religious institution, school or public park,
government office, supermarket, restaurant, or any property designated for
residential use or used for residential purposes shall be measured in a
straight line without regard to intervening structures, from the closest
property line of the pawn shop or delayed deposit service business to the
closest property line of the religious institution, school, public park,
government office, supermarket, restaurant, or the property designated for
residential use or used for residential purposes.
   3.   Restrictions. Visibility into the store shall be maintained by
utilizing clear, transparent glass on all windows and doors and by keeping all
windows free of obstructions for at least three feet into the store. Products
may be displayed for sale in the window provided that the display, including
signage, does not occupy more than 30 percent of the window area. Interior and
exterior bars, grills, mesh, or similar obstructions, whether permanently or
temporarily affixed, shall not cover any exterior door or window.
124.03   COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   1.   No person shall engage in or carry on the business of pawnbroker in the
City without first paying the fee and procuring the license provided for in
this chapter, nor shall any person carry on such business in any manner
contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   2.   Every clerk, servant, agent, or employee of any pawnbroker must be at
least 18 years old and shall be subject to and bound by all provisions of this
chapter and liable for the same penalties and to the same extent as such
person’s employer or principal for any violation thereof.
124.04   LICENSE FEES.
   Any person desiring a pawnbroker license under this chapter shall make a
written, signed application to the Clerk on forms provided by the Clerk. All
annual fees for licenses under this chapter shall be fixed and determined by
the Council, adopted by resolution, and uniformly enforced. Such license fees
may, from time to time, be amended by the Council by resolution. A copy of the
resolution setting forth the currently effective license fees shall be kept on
file in the office of the City Administrator and be open to inspection during
regular business hours.
124.05   LICENSE.
   1.   Criteria Considered. Upon receipt of a pawnbroker license application,
the Clerk shall forward a copy of the application to the Police Chief, who
shall review the application. The applicant shall furnish such evidence as may
reasonably be required in support of the statements set forth in the
application. The Police Chief shall report to the Clerk within 30 days of
receipt of the application considering, but not limited to, the following
criteria:
      A.   The Police Chief shall determine whether the applicant or any of the
applicant’s agents or employees who will be charged with receiving or
distributing property have been convicted of a felony. However, if the
conviction of a felony occurred more than five years before the application for
a pawnbroker license, and if such person’s rights of citizenship have been
restored by the Governor, such conviction shall not be a bar to obtaining a
pawnbroker license.
      B.   The Police Chief shall determine whether the applicant has
truthfully reported all relevant facts within the pawnbroker application.
      C.   The Police Chief shall determine if the applicant has such financial
standing and good reputation to indicate that he or she will comply with all
the laws of the State and City.
   2.   Issuance.
      A.   Upon receipt of a positive police report and the appropriate fees,
the Clerk shall approve the application if the applicant has fully complied
with all of the requirements of this chapter, and the Clerk shall thereupon
issue a pawnbroker license to the applicant and forward a copy of such to the
Police Chief. The license shall state the name and place of residence of the
person licensed, the business to be transacted, and the place where it is to be
carried on, and the date of issuance and expiration of the license.
      B.   In the event that the Clerk determines that any applicant for a new
license or any person seeking a renewal license has not fully complied with all
of the requirements of this chapter, or that the Police Chief returns a
negative report, or that the applicant has falsified their application, then
the Clerk shall, after consultation with the City Attorney, advise the Council
of the basis for questioning the applicant’s qualifications, and the procedures
for notice and hearing.
124.06   EXPIRATION DATE OF LICENSE.
   All pawnbrokers’ licenses shall expire one year after the date of issue.
124.07   SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   Any person conducting several or separate places of business shall pay the
license fee and procure a license for each place of business. The license shall
be sufficient for all clerks, agents, servants, or employees engaged or
employed at the place named in the license.
124.08   NONPAYMENT OF LICENSE FEE MISDEMEANOR.
   When any person shall engage in business as a pawnbroker without paying the
fee provided therefor and imposed in this chapter, such person shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor. Each day said violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
124.09   RECORDS.
   1.   Every pawnbroker shall keep a book in which they shall accurately and
legibly enter, in ink, in the English language, the following information at
the time of purchasing or receiving any personal property:
      A.   The name of the person from whom the property is purchased or
received, the person’s place of residence, the person’s date of birth, a photo
identification of the person, the person’s driver’s license number, the state
of issue of the driver’s license, and the expiration date of the driver’s
license.
      B.   A particular, detailed, and accurate description of each article,
including any serial number.
      C.   The estimated value of each article.
      D.   The amount paid, advanced, or loaned for the article.
      E.   The date and hour of transaction.
      F.   The date and hour when the article is to be redeemed or bought back.
      G.   Any mortgage or bill of sale taken, or receipt or pawn ticket given.
      H.   When, and by whom, an article was bought back or redeemed.
      I.   When, to whom, and how an article was disposed of, if not redeemed.
   2.   The license and the book shall, at all times, be open to examination or
inspection by any police officer.
   3.   When the pawn log sheets are complete, or upon demand from the Police
Chief, the licensee shall surrender the original sheets to the Police Chief,
who shall provide a copy of the sheets to the licensee; the originals shall
remain the property of the City. The licensee shall also maintain a record of
the name and residential address of any person redeeming an article of
property, the date of such transaction, and a description of the article
redeemed. In the event property is disposed of other than by redemption, the
licensee shall record a description of the property, how disposed, and the name
and address to whom the article was transferred. Such redemption and purchase
records shall be maintained by the licensee for one year from the date of
transaction and shall be at all times open to examination and recordation by
the Police Chief.
   4.   Every pawnbroker shall require each person from whom any property is
purchased or received to print and sign their name on any inventory sheet
provided by the Police Chief. The inventory sheet shall be the property of the
City.
   5.   Any person is guilty of a misdemeanor who:
      A.   Fails to keep or maintain such records as required by this chapter.
      B.   Fails to make the required entries in such records.
      C.   Intentionally or knowingly makes any false or unintelligible entry,
or any entry which he or she has reason to believe is untrue or deletes any
entry.
      D.   Fails to make the inquiries necessary to enable the person to make
such entries or any of them.
      E.   Fails to produce the license, book, or log sheets when requested by
a police officer.
      F.   Destroys, alters, or negligently permits such book, records, or log
sheets to be destroyed, damaged, altered, rendered unintelligible, or lost.
      G.   Fails to require any person to show physical proof of that person’s
identification.
124.10   DAILY REPORTS TO POLICE CHIEF.
   Every pawnbroker who purchases or receives from a person any article of
jewelry or precious stones; any sheet copper or brass; copper or brass wire;
lead (sheet or pipe): zinc (sheet or pipe); Citizens Band radio, car radio,
stereo, or electronic accessory; nickel or nickel-plated articles; silver or
silver-plated articles; car or railroad brasses; any guns, pistols, or rifles;
any motorcycle, bicycle, automobile, or automobile tire, part, or accessory
thereto; shall within 24 hours after purchasing or receiving such articles
report the same in writing to the Police Chief, stating fully and correctly:
   1.   The name, driver’s license number, and state of issuance, and residence
of the person from whom the article was purchased or received;
   2.   A full and accurate description of each article, including any serial
numbers; and
   3.   The value or amount paid for each article.
124.11   PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No licensee or any agent or employee purchasing or receiving any article or
property shall:
   1.   Receive any property without first viewing a form of identification
containing a photograph of the person identified.
   2.   Melt, alter, destroy, dismantle, redeem, remove from the licensed
premises, or otherwise dispose of such article, without making the report
required in Section
124.10, or within 15 days after the receipt and report of any property is made,
except upon written permission from the Police Chief. Every bicycle,
motorcycle, or automobile purchased or received shall be kept intact for a
period of 15 days. All articles must remain within the City at the place of
business during the 15-day period provided for herein.
   3.   Purchase or receive any property from any person under the age of 18
without their parent or guardian being present at the time of the transaction
and without receiving their written consent, a copy of which must be submitted
along with the records required by Section
124.09.
   4.   Purchase or receive any property or surrender any property from 6:00
p.m. to 8:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday, and 6:00 p.m. Saturday through 8:00
a.m. Monday.
   5.   Conceal, secrete, or destroy for the purpose of concealing, any article
purchased or received for the purpose of preventing identification.
   6.   Deface, alter, or remove any serial number or identifying marks from an
article in their possession.
   7.   Take possession of defaced or altered property as described in
Subsection 6 above.
   8.   Sell, dispose of, change in its form, alter, or mutilate in any way any
article of jewelry within the time fixed for sale or redemption.
   9.   Purchase or receive any personal property from any intoxicated person
or person who appears to be under the influence of any drug.
   10.   Sell or otherwise dispose of any article during the time any person
has the right to buy back or redeem the article.
124.12   ARTICLES OF CLOTHING.
   All articles of clothing taken in pawn or purchased outright shall be held
in the same condition in which they were received for 15 days following and
during this period shall not be cleaned, repaired, dyed, or altered in any
manner.
124.13   SEARCHING FOR STOLEN PROPERTY.
   Whenever any police officer has reason to believe that any pawnbroker has,
in their possession or on their premises, any stolen property, the officer
shall have the right and duty to enter and search the premises of such person
for the purpose of discovering stolen property.
124.14   EXAMINATION OF PREMISES BY OFFICERS.
   No pawnbroker or any other person shall refuse, resist, or attempt to
prevent any police officer, with or without warrant, from examining the
premises occupied by the pawnbroker for the purpose of discovering stolen
property.
124.15   HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No pawnbroker or any person shall conduct business on Sunday or at any hour
other than between 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
124.16   DISPOSING OF STOLEN GOODS OR GOODS FOR WHICH THERE IS AN ADVERSE
CLAIM.
   No pawnbroker shall sell, or permit to be redeemed, or otherwise dispose of
any article which they have reason to believe has been stolen, or which is
adversely claimed by any person, or which they have been notified not to sell,
release, or otherwise dispose of by any police officer without first obtaining
written permission to do so from the Police Chief.
124.17   GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The following reasons shall be grounds for the revocation of any license
issued under the provisions of this chapter:
   1.   Fraud. The licensee has made fraudulent or untrue statements in the
application for a license.
   2.   Violation. The licensee has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter.
   3.   Operation. The licensee has conducted the business in such a manner as
to endanger the public welfare, health, safety, order, or morals.
124.18   REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   When it appears to the Clerk or the Council that grounds for the revocation
of a license may exist, the following procedure shall be followed:
   1.   Investigation. The Council or the Clerk shall direct the Police Chief
to make an investigation concerning the alleged grounds for revocation.
   2.   Report to Council. The Police Chief shall make such investigation and
report the findings in writing to the Council.
   3.   Determination. The Council shall make a determination as to whether
probable cause for revocation exists.
   4.   Hearing. If the Council finds that probable cause for revocation
exists, it shall set a date, time, and place for a hearing on the matter and
shall direct the City Attorney to prepare the complaint against the licensee.
The complaint shall state the alleged grounds for the revocation and the date,
time, and place for a hearing on the matter.
   5.   Service of Complaint. The complaint shall be served upon the licensee
by certified mail, return receipt requested, not less than 10 days prior to the
date set for a hearing on the matter.
   6.   Conduct of Hearing. The Council shall conduct the hearing at which the
licensee shall be present. The purpose of the hearing shall be to determine the
truth of the facts alleged in the complaint. Should the licensee, or the
licensee’s authorized representative, fail to appear without good cause, the
Council may proceed to a determination on the complaint.
   7.   Rights of Licensee. The licensee shall have the right to be represented
by counsel, to testify and present witnesses in their own behalf, and to cross-
examine adverse witnesses.
   8.   Evidence. The Council shall admit only reliable and substantial
evidence into the revocation proceeding and shall give all admitted evidence
its natural probative value.
   9.   Findings. The Council shall make and record findings of fact and
conclusions of law and shall revoke a license under this section only when,
upon review of the entire record, it finds substantial evidence of a violation
of this chapter.
124.19   EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
   Revocation of a license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of three years from the date of
revocation.
124.20   SUMMARY SUSPENSION.
   The Police Chief may summarily suspend any license issued under this chapter
if, after investigation, the Police Chief finds reasonable grounds to believe
that the licensee’s establishment poses an immediate hazard to the health or
safety of the community. Such suspension shall be effective upon the service of
a written notice of suspension upon the licensee. Such service may be
accomplished by personal service or by certified mail, return receipt
requested. The Police Chief shall report such suspension to the Council, and
the Council shall forthwith commence revocation proceedings in accordance with
the provisions of Section 124.18. Such suspension shall remain effective until
the completion of said revocation proceedings.
CHAPTER 125
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES
 
125.01 Purpose                       125.04 Adult Magazines and Publications
                                     to be Covered
125.02 Definitions                   125.05 Enforcement
125.03 Location of Adult Bookstores,
Movie Theaters, Nightclubs, Motels,  125.06 Permitted Areas
Adult Businesses
 
125.01   PURPOSE.
   It is recognized that adult entertainment facilities have certain
objectionable side effects which render these adult facilities incompatible
with residential and family-oriented uses, when the adult facilities are
located directly adjacent to such uses. This chapter seeks to ensure that
residential or family-oriented uses and adult entertainment facilities will be
located in separate and compatible locations. It is a subject of legitimate
concern for the City to use its zoning power to preserve the quality of life,
preserve the City’s neighborhoods, and to meet effectively the increasing
encroachments of urbanization upon the quality of life within the City.
125.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined.
   1.   “Adult entertainment facilities” include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      A.   “Adult bookstore” means an establishment having as the primary
portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines, and other periodicals which
are substantially devoted to the depiction of specified sexual activities and
specified anatomical areas.
      B.   “Adult movie theater” means any theater, arcade, or similar
establishment where an enclosed building or open-air facility is used for
presenting material in the form of motion picture film, video tape, or other
similar means which is substantially devoted to the depiction of specified
sexual activities and specified anatomical areas for observation by persons
therein.
      C.   “Adult nightclub” means any club, cabaret, nightclub, bar,
restaurant, or similar establishment where an enclosed building or open-air
facility is used for live performance which is characterized by the exposure of
specified sexual activities and specified anatomical areas for observation by
persons therein.
      D.   “Adult motel” means a motel or similar establishment offering public
accommodations for any form of consideration which provides patrons with
closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are characterized
by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
      E.   “Adult business” means any business or establishment where a
specified sexual activity or a specified anatomical area is displayed.
   2.   “Specified anatomical areas” means:
      A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (1)   Human genitals;
         (2)   Human buttocks;
         (3)   Human female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
      B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   3.   “Specified sexual activities” means:
      A.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      B.   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy;
      C.   Fondling or other touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock,
or female breast; and
      D.   Minors engaged in a prohibited sexual act or simulation of a
prohibited sexual act.
125.03   LOCATION OF ADULT BOOKSTORES, MOVIE THEATERS, NIGHTCLUBS, MOTELS,
ADULT BUSINESSES.
   1.   Locations. No person, whether as principal or agent, clerk, or
employee, either for such person or any other person, or as an officer of any
corporation, or otherwise, shall place, maintain, own, or operate any adult
bookstore, adult movie theater, adult nightclub, adult motel, or adult business
in the following locations.
      A.   In any residential area in the City, including upon any sidewalk
abutting upon such residential area;
      B.   Within 2,000 feet of any residentially zoned or used property, or
any property designated on the City’s Comprehensive Plan as residentially
oriented.
      C.   Within 2,000 feet of any parcel of real property upon which is
located any of the following facilities:
         (1)   An elementary school, junior high school, or senior high school;
         (2)   A church which conducts religious programs;
         (3)   Park or recreational facilities operated and approved by the
City, County, the County Conservation Board, the State, or a not-for-profit
institution;
         (4)   Federal, State, County, City, or special district governmental
offices;
         (5)   Supermarket or convenience market primarily engaged in the sale
of food; or
         (6)   Restaurant, fast-food, or food establishment catering to family
trade.
      D.   Within 2,000 feet of any other adult entertainment facility, as
defined in Section
125.02.
   2.   Measurement of Distance. The distance between any two adult
entertainment facilities shall be measured in a straight line, without regard
to intervening structures from the closest exterior structural wall of each
business. The distance between any adult entertainment facilities and any
religious institution, school, or public park, government office, supermarket,
restaurant, or any property designated for residential use or used for
residential purposes shall be measured in a straight line without regard to
intervening structures, from the closest property line of the adult
entertainment facilities to the closest property line of the religious
institution, school, public park, government office, supermarket, restaurant,
or the property designated for residential use or used for residential
purposes.
   3.   Viewing Area.
      A.   It is unlawful to maintain, operate or manage, or permit to be
maintained, operated, or managed any adult theater or arcade in which the
viewing areas are not visible from a continuous main aisle or are obscured by a
curtain, door, wall, or other enclosure. For purposes of this section, “viewing
area” means the area where a patron or customer would ordinarily be positioned
while watching the performance, picture, show, or film.
      B.   It is unlawful for more than one person at a time to occupy any
individually partitioned viewing area or booth.
      C.   It is unlawful to create, maintain, or permit to be maintained any
holes or other openings between any two booths or individual viewing areas for
the purpose of providing viewing or physical access between the booth or
individual viewing area.
      D.   The opening to the viewing area shall be from the main aisle.
125.04   ADULT MAGAZINES AND PUBLICATIONS TO BE COVERED.
   The display of adult magazines and publications in a public place, other
than a public place from which minors are excluded, is prohibited unless a
device commonly known as a blinder rack is placed in front of such material, so
that the lower two-thirds of the material is not exposed to view. As used
herein, “public place” includes grocery stores, convenience stores, drug
stores, supermarkets, and other retail establishments unless minors are
excluded therefrom by law.
125.05   ENFORCEMENT.
   In case any building, structure, or sign is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building
structure, sign, or land is used in violation of this chapter, the City
Attorney, in addition to other remedies, shall institute any proper action or
proceedings in the name of the City to prevent such unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or
use, to restrain, correct, or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of
the building, structure, or land, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct
business, or use in or about the premises.
125.06   PERMITTED AREAS.
   The areas in the City in which adult entertainment facilities are permitted
are defined in Section
125.03.
CHAPTER 127
MOBILE FOOD UNITS
 
127.01 Definitions                 127.05 General Regulations for all Mobile
                                   Food Units
127.02 License and Permit Required 127.06 Reserved
127.03 Application                 127.07 Reserved
127.04 Exceptions                  127.08 Enforcement Penalties
 
127.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined.
   1.   “Commissary” means a licensed food facility regulated by a governmental
entity where food is stored, prepared, portioned, packaged, or any combination
thereof, and where such food is intended for consumption at another location or
place from a mobile food unit.
   2.   “Food establishment” means an operation that stores, prepares,
packages, serves, vends, or otherwise provides food for human consumption. For
the purposes of this chapter, “food establishment” does not include an
establishment that offers only pre-packaged foods that are non-potentially
hazardous; a produce stand which sells only whole, uncut fresh fruits and
vegetables; an establishment operating in a farmers market if potentially
hazardous food is not sold or distributed; a residence in which food that is
non-potentially hazardous is sold for consumption off-premises to a consumer
customer provided the food is labeled so as to identify its preparer; a private
home that receives catered or home-delivered food; child care facilities or
food establishments in hospitals or health care facilities which are subject to
regulation by State agencies; supply vehicles and vending machines.
   3.   “Mobile food unit” means motorized, a self-propelled food establishment
food truck, or a trailer, pushcart, or vehicle towed by a motorized vehicle,
that is readily movable including a tent, and which typically operates at a
remote location and returns to base of operation or commissary at the end of
its daily business. Mobile food units are considered Class III or Class IV
Mobile Food Units by the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals.
   4.   “Mobile Food Unit License” means a City issued license necessary for
all mobile food units operating in City limits, unless the mobile food unit is
operating on private property as part of a private event under Section 127.04.
   5.   “Potentially hazardous food” means a biological (microorganism),
chemical (cleansers, pesticides), or physical (fingernail, plastic) property
that may cause an unacceptable consumer health risk.
   6.   “Pushcart” means a non-motorized food establishment limited to serving
non-potentially hazardous packaged foods with limited assembly or commercial or
commissary prepared foods that are reheated on the pushcart, such as
frankfurters. Pushcarts may be towed by a vehicle but are generally capable of
being moved by human power. Pushcarts are considered Class III Mobile Food
Units by the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals.
   7.   “Special Event Permit” means a permit necessary for all mobile food
units operating in the City right-of-way or in a City Park. The permit is valid
for a specified period of time and at a specified location. This permit does
not supersede the need for a Mobile Food Unit License.
127.02   LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell, or offer for sale, or otherwise engage in a business
as a mobile food unit within the City without having first obtained a license
to operate as such. A Mobile Food Unit License is a special license and is
required in addition to any other required City business license or State
license or permit the person may hold or be required to hold. A separate Mobile
Food Unit License is required for each mobile food vehicle from which business
is conducted in the City. Mobile Food Unit Licenses are not transferable or
assignable. The license fee required shall be established by the Council by
resolution. Licenses expire 365 days after license issuance. No person shall
sell, or offer for sale, or otherwise engage in business as a mobile food unit
within the public right-of-way or in a City park unless otherwise approved by
the City Administrator, or their designee, by a Special Event Permit. The
granting of a Special Event Permit is discretionary based on available space
and event requirements. A Special Event fee may be charged by the City or the
event host.
127.03   APPLICATION.
   A Mobile Food License application form available from the Building and
Zoning Department must be filled out and submitted to the Clerk for processing.
The completed application must be submitted together with a copy of the
applicant’s State Retail Sales Tax Permit and proof of liability insurance,
including commercial general liability insurance coverage and automotive
liability insurance coverage. Commercial general liability insurance shall
include coverage for bodily injury, death, and property damage with limits of
liability of not less than $1,000,000.00 per occurrence and aggregate combined
single limit. Automobile liability insurance coverage shall include coverage
for bodily injury, death, and property damage with limits of liability of not
less than $1,000,000.00 per occurrence, combined single limit. Certificates of
Insurance shall provide that the policy or policies have been endorsed to
provide 30 days advance notice of cancellation and 45 days advance notice of
non-renewal and 10 days advance notice of cancellation for non-payment of
premium and that these notices shall be provided to the City finance department
by email, facsimile, or mail. Cancellation of required insurance automatically
revokes and terminates the Mobile Food Unit License to operate in the City
unless other insurance policies are provided in a timely manner to the City. If
the mobile food unit sells food or beverages other than pre-packaged items that
do not require hot or cold handling procedures, the application shall also
contain a copy of the Mobile Food Unit’s License issued by the Iowa Department
of Inspections and Appeals, a copy of the food establishment license issued by
the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals for any commissary kitchen or
other premises where food is prepared, copies of the food protection manager
certifications, the name and address of the facility at which any waste fat,
waste oil, or waste grease generated by the mobile food unit operation is
disposed of, and a copy of the Certificate of Annual Compliance issued by the
Fire Marshal of Des Moines, Clive, Ankeny, Urbandale, Norwalk, Grimes, Altoona,
Pleasant Hill, Johnston, Waukee, or West Des Moines.
127.04   EXCEPTIONS.
   1.   Mobile food units associated with a private party on private property
hosted by the owner of the property upon which the unit is dispensing food or
beverage, such as a graduation party, wedding reception, birthday celebration,
or similar event, are exempt from the licensing provisions of this chapter
provided the unit’s participation is by invitation or contract with the host
and provided the vendor displays proof of its authorization to operate in the
State and required health inspection certification.
127.05   GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR ALL MOBILE FOOD UNITS.
   1.   Mobile food units shall have, and at all times maintain, all necessary
licenses and permits from the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals as
well as the City required permits and licenses.
   2.   Mobile food units shall at all times operate in compliance with all
applicable food, health, and sanitation laws and shall comply with all health
department regulations regarding food service, food storage and preparation,
food handling and food cooking, and shall have a valid inspection certificate
or permit evidencing health department inspection and approval on display and
easily visible to the mobile food unit’s patrons at all times in operation.
   3.   No mobile food unit shall offer for sale or sell food or beverage
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   4.   No mobile food unit may operate in the right-of-way absent of a receipt
of a Special Event Permit from City Administration, or their designee.
   5.   No mobile food unit shall operate within a City park absent receipt of
a Special Event Permit from City Administration, or their designee.
   6.   No mobile food unit shall park or stand within:
      A.   Forty feet of a pedestrian crosswalk, or a stop sign, or traffic
signal light;
      B.   Adjacent to a designated bicycle lane; or
      C.   Absent written authorization of the restaurant, within 200 feet of
any public entrance to any permanent restaurant during hours the restaurant is
open for business.
   For purposes of this section, bars that serve food are deemed to be
restaurants. Mobile food units that are not directly involved with the sponsor
organization shall not park or stand within 1,200 feet (three City blocks) of
an approved special event.
   7.   No mobile food unit shall operate in a manner that violates Chapter 54
concerning noise. A mobile food unit owner or operator shall not call out to,
cry out, shout out, or otherwise communicate or make any noise or use any
device to call attention to their cart’s location and operation.
   8.   A mobile food unit owner or operator is responsible for keeping and
maintaining the area around and within 50 feet of the mobile food unit neat,
clean, and free from trash, debris, garbage, and other hazardous conditions at
all times regardless of whether the trash, debris, or garbage originated from
the operation of the unit or was left in the area by a pedestrian passerby or
natural conditions. A mobile food unit owner or operator shall provide adequate
trash receptacles for the public for all garbage from its operation and from
the accumulation of garbage in the area around their unit all times the unit is
in operation. At the close of its daily business, the mobile food unit owner or
operator must remove all garbage from the area and properly dispose of it away
from the site of its operation; the garbage shall not simply be placed in
nearby public garbage receptacles provided for use to the general public at
large.
   9.   The license required by this chapter, the State Sales Tax Permit, and
all licenses, permits, or certificates required to be displayed by State law,
shall be posted on the mobile food unit so as to be readily visible to all
persons conducting business with the mobile food unit.
   10.   Mobile food units shall only offer single service food utensils such
as cups, straws, knives, forks, spoons, stirrers, plates, bowls, wrappers,
containers, and similar utensils, which shall be individually wrapped, if
usual, and kept in a clean place and only used once in the service of food or
beverage.
   11.   No mobile food unit shall be left at its operating location at the end
of its business day, unless it is operating as part of a multi-day special
event and has approval from the City Administrator.
   12.   No mobile food unit shall conduct operations at a location or in a
manner that hinders, impedes, or restricts access to a pay phone, mailbox,
emergency call box, traffic control box, fire hydrant, entrance to a building,
or a driveway.
   13.   A mobile food unit operating on private property shall not encroach
into any public sidewalk or public right-of-way. The window or area where a
patron orders and receives their purchase shall be located so as to not require
a patron to stand, or create a line that may cause pedestrians to be in the
public right-of-way, vehicle travel lane, including parking lot drive aisles,
or similar situation that may create a potential safety hazard. Sales shall be
conducted on the sidewalk or pathway side of the mobile food unit wherever
possible, away from moving vehicles. All private property owners allowing
mobile food units on property must maintain a food service license issued by
the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals and Certificate of Insurance.
   14.   No mobile food unit is allowed on the grounds of any school unless it
has been invited to be there as part of a school authorized function.
   15.   The City reserves the right to move a mobile food unit from any
location if determined to be necessary for the provision of emergencies or
public services or in the interest of public safety, peace, and welfare.
   16.   No mobile food unit shall offer for sale or sell any liquor, beer or
wine from such unit unless a liquor license has been approved by the Iowa
Alcoholic Beverage Division.
   17.   No mobile food truck should provide or allow any dining area, tables,
chairs, booths, benches, bar stools, stand-up counters, or similar furniture
unless allowed by a private lease on private property.
   18.   No mobile food unit shall be used for any purpose other than as a
mobile food unit offering food or beverage to customers.
   19.   Mobile food units shall serve patrons which are on foot only; no
drive-up service to the unit itself shall be provided or allowed.
   20.   The mobile food unit must be located on a paved or rocked surface,
unless approved as part of an event permit.
127.06   RESERVED.
127.07   RESERVED.
127.08   ENFORCEMENT PENALTIES.
   The County Health Department, the Police Department, the Fire Department,
and the Building and Zoning Department of the City are authorized to enforce
this chapter. The County Health Department may elect to pursue enforcement
under the provision of this chapter or under applicable State laws and
regulations with the sanctions available thereunder. The performance of any
action contrary to the provisions of this chapter may be cited as a municipal
infraction offense. Additionally, failure to adhere to the regulations is cause
for revocation or suspension of a license to operate as a mobile food unit. Any
license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be suspended or revoked
by the City as follows:
   1.   The vendor has violated this chapter or any other chapter of this Code
or has otherwise conducted their business in an unlawful manner.
   2.   The vendor has conducted their business in such manner as to endanger
the public welfare, safety, order, or morals.
   3.   The City has received and investigated three or more found complaints
during the license term related to the manner in which the vendor is conducting
business.
   4.   Emergency Revocation. The Police or Fire Chief may suspend or revoke
any license or permit immediately, upon oral notification to the operator of
the mobile food unit, in the event the mobile food unit is creating a danger to
the public health or safety. In such event, the vendor shall immediately cease
operations. The Police or Fire Chief will cause the notice of revocation to be
served in person by a City official or by mail to the vendor’s local address
within 24 hours.
   5.   Notice of Suspension or Revocation; Right to Appeal. The Police or Fire
Chief shall cause notice of the certificate revocation to be served in person
by a City official or by mail to the vendor’s local address, which notice shall
specify the reasons for such action, at which time operations of the vendor
must cease within the corporate limits of the City. The vendor may appeal the
revocation of the certificate to the Council at its next regularly scheduled
meeting by filing with the Clerk a written request for an appeal to the Council
at least seven days prior to the meeting. The Council may affirm, modify, or
reverse the decision of the Police or Fire Chief to revoke such certificate. If
a certificate is revoked, no refund of any license fee paid shall be made. Upon
the revocation, the vendor is not eligible for the issuance of a new permit
under this chapter for a period of one year from the date the permit revocation
is served in person or deposited in the U.S. mail.
CHAPTER 135
EXCAVATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY
 
135.01 Definitions                   135.07 Emergencies
135.02 Reservations                  135.08 Work By Others
135.03 Permits, Fee, Inspection, and 135.09 Utility Business Contractors
Requirements
135.04 Utility Map, Plan, and        135.10 Powers of the City
Specification
135.05 Conditions, Construction, and 135.11 Violations
Repair
135.06 Restoration                   135.12 Liability, Indemnification, and
                                     Insurance
 
135.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined.
   1.   “Applicant” means any person making written application to the Clerk
for an Excavation Permit under this chapter.
   2.   “Excavation work” means the excavation and other work permitted under
an Excavation Permit and required to be performed under this chapter.
   3.   “Licensee” means a company providing utility services by wire, or
through conduit, pipe, or similar structure, device, or apparatus, and all
equipment owned, operated, leased, or subleased in connection with the
operation of the utility business, and shall include, but is not limited to,
poles, wires, pipes, cables, underground conduits, ducts, manholes, vaults,
fiber optic cables, and other structures or appurtenances.
   4.   “Permittee” means any person who has been granted and has in full force
and effect an Excavation Permit issued under this chapter.
   5.   “Public improvements” means any improvements on public property,
including, but not limited to, paving, sidewalks, grass, vegetation, trees,
streetlights, traffic signals, water mains, sewers, electric transmission
lines, and equipment related thereto.
   6.   “Public property” means City owned property or City controlled
easements.
   7.   “Public rights-of-way” means the area on, below, or above a public
roadway, highway, street, bridge, cart-way, bicycle lane, or public sidewalk in
which the local government has an interest, including other dedicated rights-
of-way for travel purposes and public easements. A public right-of-way does not
include the airwaves above a public right-of-way with regard to cellular or
other non-wire telecommunications or broadcast services.
   8.   “Street” means any street, highway, sidewalk, alley, avenue, or other
public right-of-way or public grounds in the City.
135.02   RESERVATIONS.
   A licensee or permittee shall construct, maintain, inspect, protect, repair,
replace, retain a system in, under, upon, along, and across the public rights-
of-way or public property, subject to the federal, State, and City regulatory
powers, and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
135.03   PERMITS, FEE, INSPECTION, AND REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   No person shall make any excavation or fill any excavation in any City
street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, public right-of-way, and other similar
property dedicated to public use without first obtaining a permit from the
City. The application for a permit shall be in writing and completed by the
applicant or their agent. A permit shall not be required for a single
commercial or residential service connection within a public right-of-way for a
franchise licensee. However, a permit shall be required if such connection
requires a street cut, curb, or sidewalk. A permit shall not be required for a
single pole or single transformer change out, or a single streetlight change
out.
   2.   After the City reviews, approves, and issues a permit, the permittee
shall provide the City with 48 hours’ notice, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays, prior to the actual commencement of the work; shall not
unnecessarily obstruct the use of streets, avenues, alleys, or public places;
shall not endanger the safety of workers or passerby; shall prevent traffic
backup during construction; and shall comply with all provisions, requirements,
and regulations in performing such work. An applicant’s installation shall not
interfere with the reasonable and proper use, construction, reconstruction, and
maintenance of any public improvements or any existing or future public utility
system component, or other structure upon or under public property.
   3.   The licensee or applicant shall submit its permit application and maps,
plans, or specifications for a proposed utility plan, and other notices as may
be appropriate, to the following City office for the initial permit review,
permit findings (approval, denial, resubmission), fee assessment, and other
activities as may be appropriate:
Public Works Director
City of Windsor Heights
6800 School Street
Windsor Heights, IA 50324
Phone: (515) 279-3662
   4.   The licensee or applicant shall pay the City the following rates:
      A.   A per permit fee, as set by resolution as approved by the Council,
for the review of the applications and proposed plans and specifications, is
due at the time the permit application is submitted. Franchise licensees will
only be required to pay if a hard surface is being cut such as a curb, street,
or sidewalk.
      B.   An hourly rate for any inspection services will be required in
connection with the applicants’ work, including, but not limited to, the
personnel cost of an inspector’s salary and benefits, vehicle and mileage,
administrative overhead, with payment due within 30 days of the City’s
submittal of an invoice to the applicant.
   5.   The applicants’ permit will show the exact location of the work
including street or house number and the direction and length the trench will
run.
   6.   If the applicant plans to do extensive digging, a blanket permit may be
issued, however, the party performing the work must notify all other utilities
concerned as to the location and time that work will take place so that the
others may locate their property.
   7.   The applicant shall post with the City a surety bond in the amount of
$10,000.00 or one and a half times the estimated cost of the excavation and
restoration, whichever is greater, issued by a surety company authorized to
issue such bonds in the State before excavating or opening any public street,
sidewalk, ditch, alley, or public right-of-way. The bond shall guarantee the
permittee’s payment for any damage done to the City or to public property, and
payment of all costs incurred by the City in the course of administration of
this section. In lieu of a surety bond, a cash deposit of $10,000.00, or one
and a half times the estimated cost of the excavation and restoration,
whichever is greater, may be deposited with the City. Duration of the bond or
cash deposit shall be for a period of one year commencing with the completion
of the excavation and restoration. Upon approved completion of the excavation,
the cash deposit may be substituted for a one-year maintenance bond and upon
satisfactory completion of a one year period, the City shall release any and
all bonds and deposit requirements.
   8.   The applicant shall file a Certificate of Insurance indicating that the
applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration of
the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:
      A.   Bodily Injury - $1,000,000.00 per person; $1,000,000.00 per
accident.
      B.   Property Damage - $2,000,000.00 per accident.
   9.   All work shall be subject to inspection by the City. Backfill of
openings shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved
street or alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and
approved by the City. The permit holder or property owner shall provide the
City with notice at least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of
backfill is desired.
   10.   Should any excavation in any street or alley be discontinued or left
open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours, or in the event the work is
improperly done, the City has the right to finish or correct the excavation
work, keep an account of the expense thereof, and charge such expenses to the
permit holder or property owner. Thereafter, after completion of the work and
the invoicing of the costs thereof, the City shall issue no further or new
permits to the permit holder or property owner until it receives full payment
for all outstanding amounts owed.
   11.   All work by permittee shall be performed in accordance with the
current standard specifications adopted by the City at the time. Any damaged
curb, gutter, sidewalk, or grass covered area shall be restored to the same or
better condition prior to damage.
   12.   All costs and expenses incident to the excavation shall be borne by
the permit holder or property owner. The permittee and owner shall indemnify
the City from any loss or damage that may, directly or indirectly, be
occasioned by such excavation. The applicant will fill up and place in good and
safe condition all excavations and openings made in the street and will replace
and restore the pavement over any opening they may make to the same or better
condition than it was prior to excavation to the satisfaction of the Public
Works Director for a period of one year.
   13.   The applicant will pay all fines or forfeitures imposed upon them for
any violation of any rule, regulation, or ordinance governing street openings
or drain laying adopted by the Council and will repair any damage done to
existing improvements during progress of the excavation in accordance with the
ordinances, rules, and regulations of the City. Such bond shall also guarantee
that, if the City shall elect to make the street repair, the applicant opening
the street will pay all costs of making such repair and of maintaining the same
for one year, recovery on such bond for any accident, injury, violation of law,
ordinance, rule, or regulation shall not exhaust the bond but it shall cover
any and all accidents, injuries, or violation of law during the period of
excavation for which it is given.
   14.   Faulty work or materials shall be immediately replaced by the
permittee upon notice by the City. Failure to correct deficiencies in a timely
manner shall result in a minimum one-year revocation of the right to obtain a
street opening permit. The Public Works Director shall repair the deficiencies
and bill the permittee for all labor, materials, and equipment used plus
administration costs.
   15.   The permittee who does such restoration shall be responsible therefore
for one year from the date of the completion of the work and shall file a
written guarantee from a banking institution or surety bond to that effect with
the City.
   16.   If the Council shall find that any such work has become defective
within one year of the date of completion of the said project, it shall give
written notice thereof to the applicant or to their surety stating the defect,
the work to be done, the cost thereof, and the period of time deemed by the
Council to be reasonably necessary to complete said work. After receipt of such
notice, the applicant or the surety must, within the time specified, repair the
defect or indemnify the City for the cost of doing the work as set forth in the
notice.
   17.   All excavation and restoration shall be completed in a prompt manner
as determined by the Public Works Director.
135.04   UTILITY MAP, PLAN, AND SPECIFICATION.
   1.   Before commencing any extension or expansion of its utility system, or
any major repair work, or the installation of any new system in the City’s
public rights-of-way or public property, the applicant shall file with the City
a written statement verifying the public rights-of-way or public property under
which or upon which it proposes to extend, expand, install, or repair its
system. The City shall require that the statement be accompanied by a map,
plan, or specifications showing the proposed location of the system components
with reference to streets and alleys, the size and dimensions of all public
utilities, and the distance beneath the surface of the ground.
   2.   All existing public utilities must be shown on the map, plan, or
specifications. If the proposed locations of any facilities shall interfere
with the reasonable and proper use, construction, reconstruction, and
maintenance of any public improvements or any existing or future public utility
system component, or other structure upon or under public property, the City
shall, within a reasonable time after the filing of such plan, map, or
specifications, note the changes necessary, eliminate all interference with a
public improvement or existing City owned public utility system facility and
refer the same back to the utility business for amendment.
   3.   Maps, plans, or specifications, when properly changed and corrected,
shall be filed with the City and, after the approval of the same by the City, a
permit shall be issued authorizing utility business to proceed in accordance
with the approved maps, plans, or specifications.
   4.   No such excavation, construction, or erection shall be commenced before
the issuance of the permit herein provided for, unless it is an emergency as
described in section
135.07, and all work shall be in accordance with the approved maps, plans, or
specifications, or work being performed by a licensed franchise not requiring a
permit.
135.05   CONDITIONS, CONSTRUCTION, AND REPAIR.
   1.   In the process of location, construction, reconstruction, replacement,
or repair of any system component, the excavation or obstruction made or placed
in public property at any time or for any purpose by the utility business or
permittee shall, protect the public and to assure the safe and efficient
movement of traffic, be properly barricaded to comply, at a minimum, with
requirements set forth in the Uniform Manual for Traffic Control. Sufficient
warning lights shall be kept on from sunrise to sunset. No open flame warning
devices shall be used. Except by special permission from the Public Works
Director, no trench shall be excavated more than 250 feet in advance of pipe or
conduit laying nor left unfilled more than 500 feet from where pipe or conduit
has been laid. All pavement removed or damaged shall be properly and speedily
replaced in accordance with the City’s specifications, which may be obtained at
the Public Works Department.
   2.   Upon request, a licensee agrees to assist in locating underground
facilities which are part of its system prior to excavation. As a condition of
this chapter, a licensee shall enroll as a member of the “Iowa One-Call System”
and shall respond to all requests and notifications placed to the toll free
“One-Call” number.
   3.   All necessary precautions shall be taken to guard the public
effectively from accidents or damage to persons or property through the period
of work. Each permittee making such openings shall be held liable for all
damages, including costs incurred by the City in defending any action brought
against it for damages, as well as cost of any appeal, that may result from the
neglect by such person or their employees of any necessary precaution against
injury or damage to persons, vehicles, or property of any kind.
   4.   Unless otherwise approved, a minimum of one lane of traffic in each
direction shall be provided. Every effort shall be made on the part of the
permittee to provide reasonable access to all properties adjacent to their
project. In the event traffic is limited to less than one lane in each
direction, a flagman or temporary traffic control signal shall be provided so
as to safely cycle traffic in each direction past the work area and the City
must be notified regarding the dates and times applicable.
   5.   Removal of existing pavement shall be to neat, straight lines. The
permittee shall make a final saw cut in the existing pavement after
backfilling. Excavations shall be kept to the minimum possible and acceptable
for the convenience and safe performance of the permittee’s work and in
accordance with all applicable codes and regulations.
   6.   If the pavement is damaged during excavation beyond the original saw
cut lines, it shall be saw cut again along neat, straight lines. The finished
saw cut shall leave a regular rectangular section for pavement replacement.
Should the street opening occur within adjacent or close to an existing patch
or require more than one opening within a short distance, the permittee shall
identify and locate the existing patches or additional openings on the permit
application form. The Public Works Director, or their designee, shall, on the
basis of an on-site inspection, approximate the boundaries of the pavement
replacement area.
   7.   Pavement replacement areas with the long dimension in the direction of
travel shall have the long dimension parallel with the curb line or the
direction of travel. Pavement replacement areas in concrete pavements shall be
parallel with or at right angles to the direction of travel.
   8.   The Public Works Director, or their designee, may order the permittee
to remove and replace up to one full lane width of pavement along the patched
or excavated area. Special care shall be taken with concrete pavement to
produce a vertical face on the existing concrete at the point of the saw cut to
ensure a full depth of concrete at the joint.
   9.   All excavated material shall be piled in a manner such that pedestrian
and motor traffic is not unnecessarily disrupted. Gutters shall be kept clear
or other satisfactory provisions made for street drainage, and natural
watercourses shall not be obstructed. As little as possible of the trench must
be dug until the slant of junction-piece of the sewer, water, gas main,
electric cables, telephone lines, or fuel line is found. Where the confines of
the area being excavated are too narrow to permit the piling of excavated
material beside the trench, the City shall have the authority to require the
permittee to haul the excavated material to a storage site and then re-haul it
to the trench site at the time of backfilling.
   10.   All conduits, sewers, pipes, wires, or other means of transmission of
utility services within the City, if to be placed underground, shall, in
addition to all of the requirements of this section, be dug at least 30 inches
below the normal ground level whenever said utility service will cross under a
highway, City street, sidewalk, alley, or other public right-of-way within the
City.
   11.   Excavated material to be used for backfilling of the trench must be so
handled and placed as to be of as little inconvenience as practical to public
travel and adjoining tenants.
   12.   All backfill material shall be free from cinders, hot mix fragments,
ashes, refuse, vegetable or organic matter, boulders, rocks or stones greater
than eight inches in their greatest dimension, frozen lumps, or other material
which, in the opinion of the Public Works Director, or their designee, is
unsuitable. All non-compactable material will be placed upon excavation, in an
area where removal from site will be made readily possible.
   13.   In refilling the excavation, if there is not sufficient material
excavated suitable for refilling, the deficiency shall be made up with
material, approved prior to use by the Public Works Director, or their
designee, hauled in, or refilled by the City.
   14.   Wherever an excavation crosses an existing utility, pipe, or other
structure, backfill shall be carefully compacted in stages from the bottom of
the excavation. Any sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water, telephone, natural gas,
or other service shall not be interrupted by the permittee. It shall be the
permittee’s responsibility to have the various utilities locate and mark their
facilities prior to excavation.
   15.   Mechanical compaction or puddling shall be used on all materials used
for trench backfill. Each layer (12-inch maximum) shall be uniformly compacted.
Compaction or consolidation by flooding shall not be permitted. Earth must be
puddled or laid in layers not more than 12 inches in depth and each layer
rammed and tamped to prevent settling. The Public Works Department will test
the fill to meet the City’s specifications. Contractors will be instructed by
the City’s inspector, if they meet the specifications, to proceed to fill the
opening.
   16.   All excavations shall be subject to testing by the City. Backfilled
material not achieving the above compaction requirements shall be removed and
re-compacted by the permittee. The cost of any retesting shall be paid by the
permittee.
   17.   When the sides of the trench will not stand perpendicular, sheathing
and braces shall be used to prevent caving. No timber, bracing, lagging,
sheathing, or other lumber shall be left in any trench. At no time shall any
street pavements be permitted to overhang the excavation. When caving occurs,
all the street support thus disturbed must be restored to the same or better
condition as though it was an excavation or a trench.
   18.   Concrete pavement shall be placed to the full depth of the existing
pavement or seven inches, whichever is greater. Concrete used shall not contain
calcium chloride. The surface shall be given a light broom finish. The edges
shall be tooled to prevent spalling at the saw cut edge. The surface shall be
evenly and completely sealed with a white pigmented curing compound. The
surface shall be protected from traffic for a minimum of three days. Tie bars
shall be installed as directed by the Public Works Director, or their designee.
   19.   All permanent restoration of street, curb, and gutter shall be of the
same type and thickness as the curb and gutter which abuts. The grade of the
restored curb and gutter shall conform with the grade of the existing adjacent
curb and gutter.
   20.   All permanent restoration of driveways and sidewalks shall conform to
the manner of construction as originally placed and to the lines and grades as
given by the City Engineer. No patching of concrete driveway areas will be
allowed between joints or dummy joints.
135.06   RESTORATION.
   1.   As a condition of the permit, the permittee shall at its own expense,
repair or cause repair to any private property, public utility system
component, public improvement, vegetation, public rights-of-way, or public
property damaged by such location, construction, reconstruction, replacement,
or repair work, to the same or better condition than it was prior to the
excavation.
   2.   The permittee shall restore with sod (unless seed is approved by the
City) all such property to its previous condition, at its expense. If multiple
utilities are involved in the restoration, the City Engineer or Public Works
Director shall assess the restoration cost equally or proportionately to the
parties involved.
   3.   If the permittee fails to repair or arrange with the City for the
proper repair of any public property after excavations or damage to the surface
has been made, and after 30 days’ notice in writing to do so given to its
designated representative, then the City may make such repairs at the expense
of the permittee. The City shall keep an account of all such expenses and
invoice the permittee for the same. Thereafter, after completion of the work
and the invoicing of the costs thereof, the City shall issue no further or new
permits to the permit holder or property owner until it receives full payment
for all outstanding amounts owed.
135.07   EMERGENCIES.
   1.   In the event of any emergency, the permittee shall remove or relocate
its installations within 48 hours of notification from the City.
   2.   In emergencies which require immediate excavation to remedy dangerous
conditions for the protection of property, life, health, or safety, a licensee
may proceed with the work without first applying for or obtaining the permit,
provided, however, that the utility business shall apply for and obtain the
permit within 48 hours after commencing such emergency work.
135.08   WORK BY OTHERS.
   1.   The City reserves the right to lay, and permit to be laid, wires,
pipes, cables, conduits, ducts, manholes, and other appurtenances, and to do,
or permit to be done, any underground and overhead installation or improvement
that may be deemed necessary or proper by the City in, across, along, over, or
under any public property occupied by utility business, and to change any curb
or sidewalk or the grade of any street.
   2.   In permitting others to do such work, the City shall not be liable to
utility business for any damages arising out of the performance of such work by
other parties, except those arising out of or resulting from negligence of the
City.
   3.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as to relieve any other
person or corporation from liability for damage to utility business’
facilities.
135.09   UTILITY BUSINESS CONTRACTORS.
   The requirements of this chapter shall apply to all persons, firms, or
corporations performing work for a utility business under a contract,
subcontract, or other type of work order.
135.10   POWERS OF THE CITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to abridge the right or power of
the City to make further regulations relative to the use of the streets,
alleys, and public grounds by anyone using the same for the erection and
maintenance of utility systems.
135.11   VIOLATIONS.
   1.   Upon evidence being received or observed by the City that a violation
or breach of this chapter or codes lawfully regulating utility business in the
operation of its facilities, or in the use of public property, therefore, is
occurring, or has occurred, the City shall cause an investigation to be made.
   2.   If the City finds that a violation exists or has occurred, the City may
take appropriate steps to secure compliance with the terms of this chapter.
   3.   The City shall notify the utility business or permittee of the
violation, and the utility business or permittee shall cure such violation
within 30 days after receipt of such notice.
   4.   If a permittee fails to cure a violation within the time allowed, the
City shall have the right to:
      A.   Revoke the permit;
      B.   Seek specific performance;
      C.   Seek damages for such default; or
      D.   Any combination of Subsections (4)(A) and (4)(C) above.
135.12   LIABILITY, INDEMNIFICATION, AND INSURANCE.
   The permittee covenants to indemnify, defend, and save the City and its
officers, agents, and employees, harmless from any and all damages arising
directly from the exercise of the rights granted herein, except those arising
out of or resulting from negligence of the City. The permittee agrees to
require contractors and subcontractors engaged in work for the permittee within
the public rights-of-way or on public property to maintain in effect during the
term of work liability insurance in comprehensive form and in the amounts to be
set by the City.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01 Purpose                               136.14 Inspection and Approval
136.02 Definitions                           136.15 Barricades and Warning
                                             Lights
136.03 Removal of Snow, Ice, and             136.16 Interference with Sidewalk
Accumulations                                Improvements
136.04 Property Owner’s Responsibility for 136.17 Determining Location of New
Maintenance                                  Sidewalks
136.05 City’s Economic Responsibility      136.18 Encroaching Steps
136.06 Sidewalk Inspection                   136.19 Openings and Enclosures
136.07 City Shall Order Repairs              136.20 Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
136.08 Notice of Inability to Repair or      136.21 Defacing
Barricade
136.09 Sidewalk Grant Program                136.22 Debris on Sidewalks
136.10 Sidewalk Construction Ordered         136.23 Vegetation Overgrowth on
                                             Sidewalk
136.11 Standard Sidewalk Specifications      136.24 Merchandise Display
136.12 Permits for Construction or Repair    136.25 Sales Stands
136.13 Failure to Obtain Permit; Remedies
 
136.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety, and general
welfare of the City, and to ensure compliance with the following goals in
accordance with the City’s Complete Street Policy passed on July 6, 2015:
   1.   Promoting the safety of pedestrian access, movement, and protection for
the physically able, physically challenged, children, or seniors (or variously
abled) within the community.
   2.   Ensuring that the ADA guidelines are met for all sidewalk or pathway
installations, existing and proposed.
   3.   Promoting attractive and well-constructed sidewalks or pathways that
correspond to the character, aesthetic qualities, natural, environmental, and
historical features of developing or existing neighborhoods.
   4.   Connecting to existing and projected sidewalks or pathways whenever the
opportunity arises to insure an interconnected pedestrian system.
   5.   Ensuring that all development actively implements the building of
sidewalks or pathways for new construction, reconstruction, or rehabilitation.
136.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined.
   1.   “Bicycle recreational trail” means a PCC (Portland Cement Concrete),
blacktop, or gravel bicycle or recreational route developed primarily for
outdoor recreational purposes. Trails are largely designed for pedestrians and
other users to “experience” the outdoors and may be used by a variety of users,
but they are not primarily designed for transportation purposes. Bicycle trails
within the City should be constructed at a minimum of 10 feet in width with a
preferred width of 12 feet whenever possible.
   2.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening.
   3.   “Crosswalk” means any portion of a roadway at an intersection or
elsewhere that is distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing. If there is no
marking, a sidewalk crossing is implied at each leg of every intersection by
the extension of the lateral lines of the sidewalk on each side, or where the
sidewalk would be if there is none.
   4.   “Defective sidewalk” means any public sidewalk exhibiting one or more
of the following characteristics:
      A.   Sidewalk faulted at joint or crack with one inch or more deflection
or gap;
      B.   Sidewalk raised more than two inches in eight feet from normal
profile line of sidewalk;
      C.   Sidewalk sunken more than two inches in eight feet from normal
profile line of sidewalk;
      D.   Sidewalk cracked into three or more pieces per panel, or any single
crack with half inch or greater openings;
      E.   Sidewalk cross slope is incorrect, greater than half inch in one
foot; within the margin of error;
      F.   Sidewalk cracked or spalled (small crater line holes deeper than
three-eighths inch with part of sidewalk missing, forming holes deeper than
three-eighths inch; or
      G.   Sidewalk missing panels.
   5.   “Established grade” means that grade established by the City in
applicable permits for the particular area in which a sidewalk is to be
constructed.
   6.   “Mature tree” means any tree with a diameter at breast height of 10
inches or greater.
   7.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, owner includes the lessee, if any.
   8.   “Pedestrian friendly” or “walkability” means the presence of facilities
and design features that make an environment safe and attractive to
pedestrians. These include:
      A.   Walkable distances between uses, (i.e. under one-quarter mile).
      B.   Sidewalks, paths, and walkways.
      C.   Continuous visual interest (i.e. uninterrupted line of buildings,
attractive barrier in front of parking lots, murals on blank walls, infill
development, pocket parks, etc.).
      D.   Consumer uses (i.e. restaurants, shops, cinemas, housing).
      E.   Trees for shade.
      F.   Awnings for shelter;
      G.   Buildings and landscaping elements sited to avoid wind tunnel
effect, and to provide sheltered areas.
      H.   Visual texture in the streetscape (i.e. interesting storefronts,
public art, plantings, pavement patterns, etc.).
      I.   People presence (i.e. sidewalk cafes, street vendors, late business
hours, residents using front porches, and yards).
      J.   Good maintenance and inclusion of site amenities.
      K.   Buffers between cars and pedestrians (i.e. planted medians, on-
street parking, grade separation),
      L.   Paths connecting adjacent uses,
      M.   Crosswalks and ramps,
      N.   Traffic calming devices,
      O.   Traffic lights.
   9.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement.
   10.   “Shared-use path” means a paved pathway, typically from eight to 12
feet in width, physically separated from motorized vehicular traffic within the
roadway right-of-way or within an easement adjacent to the roadway right-of-
way. Primarily used by pedestrians and bicyclists, shared use paths are also
used by joggers, skaters, and wheelchair users (both nonmotorized and
motorized). A shared use path’s primary purpose is to provide pedestrians with
connections to trails, other neighborhoods, shopping centers, businesses, and
other venues of interest. In addition, the shared use path may be used for
recreational purposes.
   11.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential,
or suburban areas. Sidewalks should be a minimum of four feet (five feet
recommended) in residential areas.
   12.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction,
repair, replacement, or removal, of a public sidewalk or the excavating,
filling, or depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection
therewith.
136.03   REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
   The abutting property owner shall remove snow, ice, and accumulations
promptly from sidewalks. If a property owner does not remove snow, ice, or
accumulations within 48 hours following the conclusion of the weather event,
the Public Works Director, or their designee, will provide a 24-hour notice in
the door. Following the 24-hour notice, the Public Works Director may have the
natural accumulations of snow or ice removed and shall give the Council an
itemized and verified statement of the costs and a legal description of the
property. The costs shall be assessed against the property as taxes. The
abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to remove
snow, ice, and accumulations promptly from the sidewalk. Under extreme weather
conditions, the Public Works Director may provide additional time for abutting
property owners to removes snow, ice, and accumulations from the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(b) and (e))
136.04   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   The abutting property owner shall repair, replace, or reconstruct, or cause
to be repaired, replaced, or reconstructed, all broken or defective sidewalks
and maintain in a safe and hazard-free condition any sidewalk outside the lot
and property lines and inside the curb lines or, in the absence of a curb, any
sidewalk between the property line and that portion of the public street used
or improved for vehicular purposes; provided, however, that this section shall
not be construed to require a property owner to take any action with respect to
a public sidewalk or shared use path when said action is made necessary by the
excavation or other activity of the City or a public utility. The abutting
property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to maintain the
sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(c))
136.05   CITY'S ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY.
   In situations where ADA ramps are required at intersections, the portion of
the cost associated with the ramp is the economic responsibility of the City.
If a property owner replaces a sidewalk panel deemed defective by the Public
Works Director due, in part, to a tree in the right-of-way, the City shall
reimburse the property owner a predetermined per panel dollar amount reflecting
approximately 50 percent of a panel replacement cost.
136.06   SIDEWALK INSPECTION.
   The City will be responsible for inspecting the public sidewalks on a five-
year cycle within the City. These inspections shall be made to determine if any
of the public sidewalks within a particular zone of the City are defective as
defined. The City will be divided into five zones by the Public Works Director.
When a sidewalk defect is found to exist outside of the annual inspection zone,
the City will initiate appropriate action as directed by this policy to have
the sidewalk reconstructed. The annual inspections will occur on the following
general timeline:
   1.   February. Designated zone sidewalk inspections completed.
   2.   March. Notifications of defective sidewalk mailed to property owners
and initiation of 75-day timeframe to complete repairs.
   3.   July. Deadline for property owners to complete sidewalk repair.
Thereafter, the City shall coordinate and schedule uncompleted repairs and
assess the property owner the cost of the repair in the manner outlined in
Section 136.07.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(c))
   If, through complaint and voluntary inspection or otherwise, it comes to the
attention of a City inspector that an owner of property abutting a sidewalk is
not complying with the maintenance requirements imposed above, then the Public
Works Director, or their designee, may cause to be served upon the property
owner, by certified mail at the property owner’s last known address as shown by
the records of the County Auditor, notice of the sidewalk defect and of the
requirement to cure said defect or reconstruct the defective sidewalk or a
portion thereof within 75 days from the date of said notice.
136.07   CITY SHALL ORDER REPAIRS.
   If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Public Works Director, or their designee, shall serve notice on such owner, by
certified mail, requiring the owner to repair, replace, or reconstruct
sidewalks within 75 days from the date the notice is mailed. If, upon
expiration of the 75 days as provided in said notice, the required work has not
been done or is not in the process of completion, the Public Works Director
shall require the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax. No such
assessment shall be made for the repair, reconstruction, or replacement of a
public sidewalk unless the City has served upon the person shown by the records
of the County Recorder to be the owner of the abutting property, by certified
mail, a notice requiring said person to repair, reconstruct, or replace the
public sidewalk within 75 days from the date said notice is mailed. All
sidewalk improvements shall be performed under the supervision and inspection
of a designated City employee. If work has not commenced following the 75-day
notice, the sidewalk will be placed on a list for repair and the City’s
contractor notified to proceed with the repairs. Upon completion of the repair,
the property owner will be sent by regular mail an invoice of the actual cost
of the repair with no administration fee. The property owner will have 30 days
to pay the invoice. If the invoice is not paid within 30 days, the amount will
be certified to the County Auditor to be added to the owner’s property taxes.
Any unpaid costs for said repairs over $500.00 will be assessed and collected
in the same manner as property taxes. There shall be returned to the Council an
itemized assessment schedule, verifying expenditures used in doing such work,
and the legal description of the lots, or tract of ground abutting the
sidewalk, on which such work has been performed. Assessments may be spread over
a 10-year period at an interest rate of two percent over current bank rates.
Any costs less than $500.00 will be assessed in one installment. There will
also be a $100.00 administrative fee if costs are assessed against the
property. The Public Works Director does not have the authority to assess
property owners in cases where there is not an existing sidewalk. New sidewalk
installation is the sole discretion of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(d) and (e))
136.08   NOTICE OF INABILITY TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
   It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk (or of the
contractor or agent of the owner) to notify the City immediately in the event
the owner is unable to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect warnings and barricades as required by this chapter.
136.09   SIDEWALK GRANT PROGRAM.
   The Council may annually fund a Sidewalk Repair Grant Program to financially
assist residents with the repair of their sidewalk. The grant program may also
provide financial assistance to residents whose sidewalk has become out of
compliance due to a tree planted on City property in compliance with Section
151.13. Information on the Sidewalk Grant Program, if available, shall be
provided to any resident with sidewalk deemed defective through regular mail
and the City’s website.
136.10   SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
   Based on State law, the Council may order the construction of permanent
sidewalks upon any street or court in the City and may specially assess the
cost of such improvement to abutting property owners in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter 384 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.11   STANDARD SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS.
   The City Engineer shall prepare complete plans and specifications for the
construction, reconstruction, and repair of sidewalks and driveway crossings in
sidewalks, which, upon approval of the Council, shall be kept on file in the
office of the Clerk. The specifications shall include descriptions and location
of barricades and warning lights. All sidewalk improvements on public property,
whether performed by the owner of the abutting property or by the City, shall
be performed under the supervision of and subject to inspection by the Public
Works Director, and in accordance with the plans and specifications adopted in
accordance with this chapter.
136.12   PERMITS FOR CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR.
   No person shall make any sidewalk improvements unless such person shall
obtain a permit from the City. The permit shall state that the person will
comply with the ordinances of the City and with the specification for sidewalks
adopted by the City. The permit also shall state that the work will be done
under the direction and approval of the Public Works Director, or their
designee. All such permits shall be issued upon payment of sidewalk
construction or repair fee. A copy of such permit shall be filed and preserved
at City Hall. All permits for sidewalk improvements not ordered by resolution
of the Council shall be issued in compliance with this chapter. The Public
Works Director may withhold the issuance of any permit for any sidewalk
improvements for a sufficient period to determine the necessity for the
proposed improvements or when weather conditions will adversely affect the
sidewalk improvements. The person who makes a sidewalk construction or repair
permit application shall pay a permit fee to the Clerk to cover the cost of
issuing the permit and supervising, regulating, and inspecting the work. All
permit fees under this chapter shall be fixed and determined by the Council,
adopted by resolution, and uniformly enforced. Such permit fees may, from time
to time, be amended by the Council by resolution. A copy of the resolution
setting forth the currently effective permit fees shall be kept on file in the
office of the City Administrator and be open to inspection during regular
business hours.
136.13   FAILURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT; REMEDIES.
   Whenever any sidewalk improvements are made that do not conform to the
provisions of this chapter and with the specifications, or when any sidewalk
improvements are made without a permit, the Public Works Director shall serve
notice to obtain a permit upon the property owner and upon the contractor doing
the work. The notice shall order the work to stop until a permit is obtained,
and the work is corrected to comply with the specifications. If the sidewalk
work has been completed, the owner shall obtain a permit immediately and
perform any needed corrections within five days from receipt of the permit. If
the owner fails to comply with this notice, the Public Works Director shall
have the work completed and the costs assessed to the property owner.
136.14   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   Upon final completion, the Public Works Director, or their designee, shall
inspect the work. The Public Works Director, or their designee, may order
corrections if the work does not meet specifications. When the work does meet
all requirements of this chapter, the specifications, and the permit, the
Public Works Director shall indicate this on both copies of the permit.
136.15   BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue,
highway, passageway, or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when
any sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees, or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.16   INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
   No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar, or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove, or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.17   DETERMINING LOCATION OF NEW SIDEWALKS.
   The decision as to where to place new sidewalks, including the side of the
street and placement in relation to the curb, should be made at the
recommendation of the City Engineer and should be based on a number of factors
including environmental constraints and cost considerations. The design of
sidewalks, necessary retaining walls, and materials will be subject to
discussion at a public meeting prior to Council providing final approval. When
constructing new sidewalks every effort should be made to limit the number of
mature trees removed during the construction process. If a property owner
wishes to save a mature tree that otherwise would need to be removed to allow
for the sidewalk, that property owner may choose to have the tree saved by
providing an easement for the sidewalk to go around the tree. This easement
would be provided at no cost to the City. The City is not responsible for
replacing or compensating property owners for any landscaping located within
the public right-of-way that is removed to allow for the installation of
sidewalks.
136.18   ENCROACHING STEPS.
   It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.19   OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
   It is unlawful for a person to:
   1.   Stairs and Railings. Construct or build a stairway or passageway to any
cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council.
   2.   Openings. Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on
any sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the
public.
   3.   Protect Openings. Neglect to properly protect or barricade all openings
on or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.20   FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.21   DEFACING.
   It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing
on any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
136.22   DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottles, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal, or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2))
136.23   VEGETATION OVERGROWTH ON SIDEWALK.
   It is the responsibility of the abutting property owner to make sure that
there is no vegetative overgrowth encroaching on the sidewalk. This includes
grass encroaching onto the sidewalk thereby reducing the walkway width as well
as keeping bushes and shrubs trimmed so that no part of the plant is
encroaching on the sidewalk space. Tree branches should be a minimum of eight
feet above the level of the sidewalk.
136.24   MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
   It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods
or merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with
the free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case
shall more than three feet of the sidewalk next to the building be occupied for
such purposes.
136.25   SALES STANDS.
   It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand
for the sale of fruit, vegetables, or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01 Power to Vacate                137.04 Findings Required
137.02 Planning and Zoning Commission 137.05 Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                      Alleys
137.03 Notice of Vacation Hearing     137.06 Disposal by Gift Limited
 
137.01   POWER TO VACATE.
   When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of
the City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(a))
137.02   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public
grounds shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission
for its study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council.
The Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03   NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
   The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the
time at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04   FINDINGS REQUIRED.
   No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
   1.   Public Use. The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified.
   2.   Abutting Property. The proposed vacation will not deny owners of
property abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05   DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7 of the
Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06   DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
   The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental
body for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15(2) and 364.7(3))
EDITOR’S NOTE
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted, vacating certain streets, alleys, or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED          ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
66-7          October 21, 1966
67-4          June 26, 1967
71-2          June 21, 1971
71-3          June 21, 1971
71-4          June 21, 1971
71-5          June 21, 1971
71-6          June 21, 1971
71-7          June 21, 1971
80-2          May 19, 1980
97-1          March 3, 1997
97-6          April 21, 1997
 
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01 Purpose and Definition 138.03 Record Maintained
138.02 Established Grades
 
138.01   PURPOSE AND DEFINITION.
   This chapter is designed to meet the requirements of the Code of Iowa for
the establishment of street grades. As used herein, “grade” means the
longitudinal reference lines, as established by ordinance of the Council, which
designate the elevation at which a street or sidewalk is to be built.
138.02   ESTABLISHED GRADES.
   The grades of all streets, alleys, and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.03   RECORD MAINTAINED.
   The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.
EDITOR’S NOTE 
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted, establishing street or sidewalk grades and remain
in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
20B           May 25, 1956
20            May 19, 1958
20C           September 22, 1958
20D           April 6, 1959
20E
9-2159
87-15         October 5, 1987
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names
 
139.01   NAMING NEW STREETS.
   New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
   1.   Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are
natural extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the
existing street.
   2.   Resolution. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
   3.   Planning and Zoning Commission. Proposed street names shall be referred
to the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
139.02   CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
   The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
139.03   RECORDING STREET NAMES.
   Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor, and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04   OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
   Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section 139.04 of the
Code of Ordinances of Windsor Heights, Iowa.”
139.05   REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
   If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date), by official action of the City
Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk.
CHAPTER 140
DRIVEWAY REGULATIONS
 
140.01 Definitions                 140.06 Grade Variances
140.02 Permit                      140.07 Failure to Obtain Permit; Remedies
140.03 Permit Fee                  140.08 Inspection and Approval
140.04 Standard Drive Approach     140.09 Repairing Defective Drive Approach
Specifications
140.05 Drive Approach Requirements
 
140.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined.
   1.   “Drive approach” means that part of any approach for motor vehicles to
private property that provides access to a public street, highway, or alley
within the right-of-way.
   2.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title or the contract
purchaser.
   3.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement.
140.02   PERMIT.
   Before any person shall construct, repair, reconstruct, or replace a drive
approach, said person shall obtain a written permit from the City
Administrator. A written application for the permit shall be filed with the
City Administrator. The application shall include the street address or legal
description of the property, the name of the owner, the name and address of the
person performing the work, and the proposed plan of construction or repair.
The plan of construction or repair must include the depth, width, and type of
surface used. The City Administrator shall issue the permit if the proposed
plan meets all the requirements of this chapter, including any specifications
contained herein, if the fee is paid, and if the construction or repair as
planned will not create any substantial hazard in the use of the street for
public travel or drainage. A permit shall expire six months after the date of
issuance, if not constructed at that time.
140.03   PERMIT FEE.
   The applicant for a drive approach construction or repair permit shall pay a
permit fee to the Clerk to cover the cost of issuing the permit and
supervising, regulating, and inspecting the work. All permit fees under this
chapter shall be fixed and determined by the Council, adopted by resolution,
and uniformly enforced. Such permit fees may, from time to time, be amended by
the Council by resolution. A copy of the resolution setting forth the currently
effective permit fees shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Administrator and shall be open to inspection during regular business hours.
140.04   STANDARD DRIVE APPROACH SPECIFICATIONS.
   The Public Works Director shall prepare complete plans and specifications
for the construction, reconstruction, and repair of drive approach, which, upon
approval of the Council, shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Administrator. The specifications shall include descriptions in the use and
placement of barricades and warning lights. All drive approach repairs or
construction on public property, whether performed by the owner of the abutting
property or by the City, shall be performed under the supervision of and
subject to inspection by the Public Works Director. All such work must be
performed in accordance with the plans and specifications adopted by the City.
140.05   DRIVE APPROACH REQUIREMENTS.
   All drive approaches constructed at any place where no sidewalk exists shall
conform to the appropriate standards or specifications adopted by the Public
Works Director and approved by resolution of the Council. All drive approaches
shall be constructed of Portland cement from the street to the property line.
All drive approaches shall be constructed of Portland cement or asphalt at any
location beyond the property line. All drive approach shall be constructed so
that the normal flow of drainage in the adjoining street will not be diverted
or obstructed. In the event any person is unable to construct a drive approach
to grade, the owner must sign a waiver agreeing to indemnify the City from all
liability arising from the maintenance and construction of the drive approach.
140.06   GRADE VARIANCES.
   In any case where it appears that a steeper drive approach grade than that
specified in this section is necessary or desirable because of existing terrain
conditions, a drive approach may be constructed (in any place where no sidewalk
exists) at such steeper grade. It shall be a condition to the granting of any
permit to construct a drive approach at a grade other than that specified that
all rights acquired by virtue of such permit shall be subject to the right of
the City to construct sidewalks at the established grade. In any place where
sidewalks have, prior to July 28, 1958, been constructed at a different grade
than that specified in this section, drive approaches may conform to the grade
of the existing sidewalks. Nothing herein shall permit the construction of any
drive approach so as to divert or obstruct the normal flow of drainage in the
adjoining street.
140.07   FAILURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT; REMEDIES.
   Whenever any drive approach construction or repair is made that does not
conform to the provisions of this chapter and with the specifications, or when
any drive approach construction, or repair is made without a permit, the City
Administrator shall serve notice to the property owner and the contractor doing
the work that a permit must be obtained. If the drive approach is in the course
of construction or repair, the notice shall order the work to stop until a
permit is obtained, and the work is corrected to comply with the
specifications. If the drive approach work has been completed, the owner shall
obtain a permit immediately and perform any needed corrections within five days
after receipt of the permit. If the owner fails to comply with this notice, the
City Administrator shall have the work completed by an outside contractor and
assess the costs to the property owner as provided in Section
140.09.
140.08   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   Upon final completion, the Public Works Director shall inspect the work. The
Public Works Director may order corrections in the work if it does not meet
specifications.
140.09   REPAIRING DEFECTIVE DRIVE APPROACHES.
   It shall be the duty of the abutting property owner at any time, or upon
receipt of 30 days’ notice from the City, to repair, replace, or reconstruct
all broken or defective drive approaches in the City right-of-way abutting said
property owner’s property. If, after the expiration of the 30 days as provided
in the notice, the required work has not been done or is not in the process of
completion, the Public Works Director shall proceed to repair, replace, or
reconstruct the drive approach. Upon completion of work, the Public Works
Director shall submit to the Council an itemized and verified statement of
expenditures for material, labor, and the legal description of the property
abutting the drive approach on which work has been performed. These costs shall
be assessed to the property as taxes.
CHAPTER 141
FIBER OPTIC CABLE LICENSE
 
141.01 Definitions                        141.07 Conditions of Public Property
                                          Occupancy
141.02 Basic Grant                        141.08 Powers of City
141.03 Construction and Repair of Network 141.09 Plans and Coordination
141.04 Excavations                        141.10 Removal of Licensee Facilities
141.05 Work by Others; Alteration to      141.11 Liability and Indemnification
Conform with Public Improvements
141.06 Licensee Contractors               141.12 Notices to Licensee
                                          141.13 Assignment
 
141.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined.
   1.   “Public improvements” means any improvements on public property,
including, but not limited to, paving, sidewalks, grass, vegetation, trees;
streetlights, traffic signals, water mains, sewers, electric transmission
lines, and equipment related thereto.
   2.   “Public property” means City-owned or controlled public rights-of-way,
easements, bridges, squares, and commons.
   3.   “Licensee” means the applicant named in the application for fiber optic
cable license and includes all equipment owned, operated, leased, or subleased
in connection with the operation of the network, and includes, but is not
limited to, poles, wires, pipes, cables, underground conduits, ducts, manholes,
vaults, fiber optic cables, and other structures or appurtenances.
141.02   BASIC GRANT.
   Upon approval of an application hereunder by the City, and for a period of
two years unless otherwise terminated, subject to the terms and conditions of
this chapter, the licensee is hereby granted a license to construct, maintain,
inspect, protect, repair, replace, retain a communications system in, under,
upon, along, and across the public property shown and identified in the plans
and specifications submitted to the City with the licensee’s application,
subject to the regulatory powers of the City and subject to the conditions
hereinafter set forth, as may be amended from time to time by the Council in
its sole and absolute discretion. The licensee will be required to pay a
license application submittal and annual license fee. Fees shall be established
by the Council by resolution, which is on file with the Clerk.
141.03   CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF NETWORK.
   In the process of location, construction, reconstruction, replacement, or
repair of any system component, the excavation or obstruction made or placed in
public property at any time or for any purpose by the licensee shall protect
the public and, to assure the safe and efficient movement of traffic, be
properly barricaded to comply, at a minimum, with requirements set forth in the
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. All pavement taken up or damaged
shall be properly and speedily replaced in accordance with the City’s
regulations. As a condition to use of public property, the licensee shall, at
its own expense, repair any private property, public utility system component,
public improvement, or public property damaged by such location, construction,
reconstruction, replacement, or repair work in a manner reasonably acceptable
to City. If the licensee fails to repair or arrange with the City for the
proper repair of any public property after excavations have been made, and
after 10 days’ notice in writing to do so is given to its designated
representative, then the City may make such repairs at the expense of the
licensee.
141.04   EXCAVATIONS.
   The licensee is authorized to make excavations in City streets, avenues,
alleys, and public places for purposes of routine repair, replacement, and
maintenance of poles, wire, or other system components associated with the
licensee. In making such excavations, the licensee shall obtain a permit
pursuant to City ordinances and regulations, shall not unnecessarily obstruct
the use of streets, avenues, alleys, or public places, shall provide the Public
Works Director with 24 hours’ notice prior to the actual commencement of the
work, and shall comply with all provisions, requirements, and regulations in
performing such work. In emergencies that require immediate excavation, the
licensee may proceed with the work without first applying for or obtaining the
permit; provided, however, the licensee shall apply for and obtain the permit
as soon as possible after commencing such emergency work. If the licensee fails
to comply with the provisions of this section, the City may repair or restore
the public property to a condition at least as good as the condition of the
property prior to the disturbance by the licensee. The licensee shall pay the
costs of such repair or restoration. The licensee shall pay to the City its
costs and charges for such work within 30 days after receipt of the City’s
billing.
141.05   WORK BY OTHERS; ALTERATION TO CONFORM WITH PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City reserves the right to lay, and permit to be laid, wires, pipes,
cables, conduits, ducts, manholes, and other appurtenances, and to do, or
permit to be done, any underground and overhead installation or improvement
that may be deemed necessary or proper by the City in, across, along, over, or
under any public property occupied by the licensee and to change any curb or
sidewalk or the grade of any street. In permitting others to do such work, the
City shall not be liable to the licensee for any damages arising out of the
performance of such work by other parties. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as to relieve any other person or corporation from liability for
damage to the licensee’s facilities.
141.06   LICENSEE CONTRACTORS.
   he requirements of the licensee shall apply to all persons, firms, or
corporations performing work for the licensee under a contract, subcontract, or
other type of work order.
141.07   CONDITIONS OF PUBLIC PROPERTY OCCUPANCY.
   The fiber optic cable systems and other components of the facilities erected
by the licensee within the City shall conform to established grades of streets,
alleys, and sidewalks, and be so located as to cause minimum interference with
other public utilities located in or upon public property, and to cause minimum
interference with the rights or reasonable convenience of property owners who
adjoin public property. The licensee shall conduct its work hereunder in such
manner as to cause as little interference as possible with pedestrian and
vehicular traffic, and shall abide by scheduling directions, if any, given by
the Public Works Director. Prior to undertaking any work in the area licensed
hereunder, in addition to consulting records maintained by the City, if any,
the licensee shall be responsible for locating any and all existing facilities
located at or near the site that may, in any way, be impacted by the licensee’s
work hereunder. The licensee shall indemnify and hold harmless the City for any
and all damages in any way related to activities undertaken by the licensee
hereunder, regardless of any alleged negligence by the City. The licensee
shall, upon 60 days’ notice and at its sole cost and expense, remove, locate,
and relocate its facilities in, on, over, or under public property in such
manner as the City may at any time require for the purpose of facilitating the
construction, reconstruction, maintenance, repair, or change in grade of any
public improvement on, in, or about any such public property, for the purpose
of promoting the efficient operation of any such improvement, or for the
purposes of facilitating the vacation or redevelopment of public right-of-way
by the City, as it deems appropriate in its sole discretion. In the event the
licensee fails to act as directed hereunder within the time prescribed in the
notice, the license issued to licensee shall be deemed terminated immediately,
without further action of the City. The City may proceed as it so desires,
including, but not limited to, removing, destroying, or burying the facilities,
as the City deems appropriate. The licensee releases, indemnifies, and holds
the City harmless for any and all actions undertaken by the City hereunder. The
licensee shall not place its facilities in the public property where the same
will interfere with the normal use or maintenance of any public improvement,
including, but not limited to, streets, alleys, sidewalks, traffic control
devices, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, storm drains, water mains, or
electrical transmission lines, or any public utility facility. Upon request,
the licensee agrees to assist in locating underground facilities which are part
of its system. Such assistance will be provided in a timely manner, but not
more than 48 hours after the time of request. As a condition of the agreement,
the licensee shall enroll as a member of the One-Call System and shall respond
to all requests and notifications placed to the toll free One-Call number.
Installation, repair, or replacement work completed by the licensee on any
facilities requiring excavation of public property or public right-of-way shall
require restoration and replacement of surface vegetation with sod in
conformance with City ordinances and in accordance with standard local
practices for placing sod.
141.08   POWERS OF CITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to abridge the right or power of
the City to make further regulations relative to the use of the streets,
alleys, and public grounds by anyone using the same for the erection and
maintenance of utility systems.
141.09   PLANS AND COORDINATION.
   The licensee shall keep complete and accurate maps and records on the
locations and operations of its facilities in connection with license and
provide a full, completed construction copy to the City.
141.10   REMOVAL OF LICENSEE FACILITIES.
   The license granted pursuant to this chapter shall expire upon the
conclusion of the term specified in this chapter, unless previously terminated.
At least seven days prior to the expiration or termination of the license
granted hereunder, the licensee shall be responsible for removing its
facilities and equipment from public property and restoration of public
property affected as part of the removal in the manner set forth in this
chapter, at its sole cost and expense. In the event licensee fails to remove
its facilities and equipment prior to the expiration or termination date of the
license, any facilities or equipment shall be deemed abandoned. Any facilities,
equipment, or other property remaining anywhere on public property after the
expiration or termination of the license may be destroyed, removed, or
otherwise disposed of by the City in any manner whatsoever and the licensee
shall hold harmless the City from any and all liability in any way occasioned
by the actions of the City hereunder.
141.11   LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   The licensee covenants to indemnify, defend, and save the City and its
officers, agents, and employees harmless from any and all damages arising
directly from the exercise of the rights granted herein, including, but not
limited to, attorney’s fees. The licensee agrees to require contractors and
subcontractors engaged in work for the licensee within the public rights-of-way
or on public property to maintain in effect during the term of work liability
insurance in comprehensive form and in the amounts to be set by the City.
Licensee agrees to accept the risk of having its communications systems and
equipment upon the public right-of-way, including the possible risk of damage
or injury to its system or equipment, and agrees to release and discharge the
City of any liability for damage or injury to the licensee’s equipment. In no
event shall the City be liable for any consequential damages arising out of any
damage or injury to the licensee’s equipment placed in the right-of-way.
141.12   NOTICES TO LICENSEE.
   Licensee shall be responsible for keeping the City apprised of the address
to which notices should be sent throughout effective term of the license.
Notices sent by the City pursuant to this chapter shall be sent to the address
of licensee identified on the application, or any address identified in writing
addressed to the Clerk’s office by the licensee thereafter. Notice shall be
deemed given by the City by mailing notice to the address provided by licensee
hereunder by ordinary mail.
141.13   ASSIGNMENT.
   Neither party shall assign or otherwise transfer the agreement or any of its
rights and interest to any firm, corporation, or individual, without the prior
written consent of the other party, except either party shall have the right to
assign, convey, or otherwise transfer its rights, title, interest, and
obligations under the agreement, in whole or in part, to any entity controlled
by, controlling or under common control with a party thereto, or any entity
into which a party may be merged or consolidated or which purchases all or
substantially all of the assets of such party.
CHAPTER 142
PARKLETS
 
142.01 Intent and Purpose               142.08 Dates and Hours Of Operation
142.02 Permit Required                  142.09 Taxes, Assessments; Operating
                                        Costs, and Utility Charges
142.03 Definitions                      142.10 Indemnity and Insurance
                                        Requirements
142.04 Permit Requirements and          142.11 Denial; Revocation or Suspension
Associated Fees                         of Permit
142.05 Permit Application and Site Plan 142.12 Appeals
Approval
142.06 Construction of Parklet
Improvements
142.07 Parklet Operation and Conditions
 
142.01   INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The establishment of a program for the siting, installation, construction,
operation, use, maintenance, and repair of parklets is designed and intended to
facilitate the conversion of inactive and often underutilized on-street parking
spaces into publicly accessible open space available for the general public to
enjoy within a system of conditions. Parklets are located within a public
right-of-way, and may include tables, seating, umbrellas, landscaping, food and
beverage service, and sunshade, all of which are intended to enhance the
quality of the pedestrian experience. The program for parklets is designed to
provide a path for merchants to take individual action in the development and
beautification of the City’s public realm and are further intended as an
aesthetic enhancement to the streetscape, providing an economical solution to
the need for increased public open space and encouraging of walking by
providing amenities like seating, planting, bike parking, and art. Parklets may
also be used as an extension of services for restaurants to offer seasonal
outdoor patio services for patrons.
142.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Operating a parklet within the public rights-of-way of the City without a
permit and a Parklet Revocable License executed by the permittee and City, and
paying the appropriate fees, costs, and charges relating thereto in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter is prohibited. A parklet, permitted and
operated in accordance with this chapter, shall not be considered an
obstruction of a public right-of-way.
142.03   DEFINITIONS.
   As used herein, unless otherwise defined or required by the context, the
following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated:
   1.   “Applicant” means a person or entity that has applied for approval of a
parklet site plan. The applicant shall include, jointly and severally, both
      A.   The owner or operator of the qualifying business; and
      B.   The fee simple owner of the real property upon which the qualifying
business is situated.
      After approval of the permit for the parklet and the parklet site plan by
the City and execution of a Parklet Revocable License authorizing the design,
construction, installation, use, maintenance, and removal of the parklet, the
applicant shall be known as the “permittee.”
   2.   “Leasing applicant” means any person or entity that has applied to
lease a City owned parklet as set forth in Section 142.13. The applicant shall
include, jointly and severally, both:
      A.   The owner or operator of the qualifying business; and
      B.   The fee simple owner of the real property upon which the qualifying
business is situated.
After approval of the parklet lease by the City and execution of a Parklet Use
Agreement, the applicant shall be known as the “lessee.”
   3.   “Lessee” means, jointly and severally:
      A.   The owner or operator of the qualifying business, and
      B.   The fee simple owner of the real property upon which the qualifying
business is situated, whom the City has approved to lease a City-owned parklet
and have executed a Parklet Use Agreement.
   4.   “Parklet” means the platform installed by a permittee over parking
spaces adjacent to a sidewalk area upon which tables, chairs, umbrellas,
landscaping, benches, and other accessory components may be placed to create an
enhanced pedestrian experience for the general public and patrons of the
permittee’s adjacent business, providing an area within which the pedestrian
experience along the public right-of-way may be amplified and enhanced by
offering an area with which one might site, rest, recreate, or indulge in open
air dining and beverage experience. The term parklet, when permitted, also
includes the ongoing obligation of maintenance, repair, operation, and removal
of the parklet improvements in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
chapter. Parklets and the Parklet Revocable License must be undertaken at the
sole cost and expense of the permittee. The parklet shall be located no farther
than 150 feet from any portion of the qualifying business.
   5.   “Parklet improvements” means the improvements identified on the
approved parklet site plan, which such improvements may, but shall not
necessarily, include parklet platform, tables, chairs, umbrellas, and other
accessory equipment to the project, railings, seating, landscape or streetscape
elements, soft-hit poles, wheel stops, etc.
   6.   “Parklet license area” means the area described in the approved parklet
site plan, such license area being within a public right-of-way, including the
air space with which the parklet improvements identified in the Parklet
Revocable License shall be constructed, and within which the parklet will be
operated and maintained for the purpose of accommodating the general public and
the patrons of permittee’s adjacent business.
   7.   “Parklet Revocable License” means the instrument that the permittee and
City must execute after approval of the parklet location and parklet site plan.
The Parklet Revocable License shall outline the terms and conditions required
for the implementation of the construction, installation, use, operation,
maintenance, and removal of the parklet after approval by the Commission.
   8.   “Parklet site plan” or “site plan” means the site plan prepared by the
applicant and approved by the City and incorporated into the Parklet Revocable
License that authorizes the design, construction, installation, operation, and
maintenance of the parklet. Approval of the site plan does not relieve
permittee of proceeding with all other governmental approvals otherwise
applicable to the construction, installation, use, operation, and maintenance
of the parklet, including Building Permits under the City’s Building Code and
engineering permits under the City’s regulations. A copy of the approved
parklet site plan shall be attached to the Parklet Revocable License
authorizing the parklet and shall be filed with the City.
   9.   “Permittee” means, jointly and severally:
      A.   The owner or operator of the qualifying business, and
      B.   The fee simple owner of the real property upon which the qualifying
business is situated, whom have been approved for a parklet permit and parklet
site plan, and have received a Parklet Revocable License authorizing the
design, construction, installation, use, maintenance, and removal of a parklet.
   10.   “Qualifying business” means the business located no farther than 150
feet from the parklet where the owner or operator of the qualifying business is
one of the two applicants for the permit to construct, install, operate, use,
maintain, repair, and remove the parklet.
142.04   PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND ASSOCIATED FEES.
   The following are permit requirements and associated fees needed to obtain a
parklet permit:
   1.   A permit for a parklet shall be issued only to the permittee who shall
include, jointly and severally:
      A.   Operator of the qualifying business; and
      B.   The fee simple owner of the real property upon which the qualifying
business is located.
   2.   The application fee and annual permit fee for establishing, operating,
and maintaining a parklet shall be determined by the Council and set forth in a
resolution.
142.05   PERMIT APPLICATION AND SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   The following are permit requirements and associated fees needed to obtain a
parklet permit:
   1.   The application for a permit to construct, operate, use, maintain, and
repair a parklet shall be submitted to the City’s Planning and Zoning
Commission on a form provided by the Commission. The application shall include,
but not be limited to, the following information:
      A.   Name, postal address, e-mail address, and phone numbers of the
applicant;
      B.   The application shall be executed by:
         (1)   The owner or operator of the qualifying business; and
         (2)   The fee simple owner of the real property upon which the
qualifying business is situated;
      C.   A copy of the valid Certificate of Occupancy for the qualifying
business;
      D.   A copy of the current liability insurance for the applicant and fee
simple owner of property underlying the qualifying business;
      E.   A drawing (minimum scale of one inch equals 20 feet) showing the
layout and dimensions of the proposed parklet license area and parklet and
adjacent property, including the structures and improvements to be located on
the parklet, proposed location, size, and number of tables, seating, umbrellas,
location of entries, location of trees, parking meters, parking spaces
utilized, vehicular travel lanes, bus shelters, sidewalk benches, trash
receptacles, landscaping, utility boxes, pole, guidelines, and other sidewalk
obstruction either existing or proposed within 75 feet of the license area for
the parklet;
      F.   Photographs, drawings, or manufacturer’s brochures fully describing
the appearance of all proposed tables, chairs, umbrellas, or other objects
relating to the parklet improvements;
      G.   A plan for the maintenance and cleaning of the parklet license area;
the tables and chairs located within the parklet area; any trash or food on or
about the tables and chairs or sidewalk adjacent to the parklet improvements;
and the disposal of any trash or debris generated from the operation and use of
the parklet by the general public and patrons of the permittee;
      H.   Any permits or approvals required from any other governmental agency
necessary to operate the parklet;
      I.   Applications shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application
fee which shall be credited to the first-year permit fee, should the
application be approved.
      J.   Eligible locations for parklets shall be limited to the following,
unless otherwise approved by the City’s Planning and Zoning Commission:
         (1)   Parklets shall be sited along the curb line on streets where on-
street parking spaces exist. The parklet can be considered on any location
where there are, or would be, spaces for on-street parallel, angled, or
perpendicular parking, including spaces with metered or unmetered parking;
         (2)   Parklets are generally permitted on streets with a running slope
(grade) of five percent or less.
         (3)   Parklets shall be located on streets with traffic speeds of 25
mph or less;
         (4)   Parklets shall not block access to public utilities, hydrants,
sidewalks, alleys, or driveways.
   2.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the materials in
Subparagraph (1) above and grant approval, approval with conditions, or denial
of the application for a parklet. Approval of the parklet site plan under this
section shall not relieve the permittee of the obligation of securing all
required governmental permits necessary for construction of the parklet
improvements, to the extent required, which such permits may include, but are
not necessarily limited to, a Building Permit and Engineering Permits under the
City’s regulation. A copy of the approved parklet site plan shall be placed and
remain on file with the City.
   3.   At all times the permit for the approved parklet, parklet site plan,
and Parklet Revocable License shall be subordinate and inferior to the City’s
superior interest in maintaining the public right-of-way underlying the
parklet. In the event that any conflicts should ever arise between the City’s
superior interest as aforesaid and the operation, use, maintenance, and repair
of the parklet, then, in that event, the rights of the City’s use and
obligation of maintaining the public right-of-way for its superior intended
purpose shall prevail over that of the permittee, and the permittee shall not
be entitled to any compensation for interference with the operation and use of
the parklet. The permitted shall gain no property right or contract right to
the continued operation and use of the parklet.
   4.   In the event the permittee desires to make modifications to the parklet
site plan or parklet improvements after initial approval is granted under
Subsection 2 above, such proposed modifications shall be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Commission for review and approval following the processes
set forth above. Approval of such modification shall be granted, granted with
conditions, or denied by the Commission.
142.06   CONSTRUCTION OF PARKLET IMPROVEMENTS.
   1.   The parklet license area shall be used as the site for the
construction, maintenance, and repair of the parklet improvements and the use
and operation of the parklet and shall be used for no other purpose whatsoever,
unless otherwise approved by the City. The permittee shall construct the
parklet in accordance with the following terms and conditions:
      A.   The permittee shall prepare construction plans and specifications
based on the parklet site plan approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission
in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section
142.05. The construction plans and specifications shall be in accordance with
the City’s engineering standards and shall be submitted to the Planning and
Zoning Commission for approval prior to submission of same to the appropriate
government officials for issuance of applicable permits in accordance with
applicable governmental regulations, including, but not limited to, the State
Building Code, applicable unified land development regulations, applicable City
Codes, and City engineering regulations.
      B.   After approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission, the
construction plans and specifications shall be submitted by the permittee to
the appropriate governmental officials for review and issuance of all
applicable building and engineering permits in accordance with the laws,
regulations, and rules of all governmental entities with jurisdiction over the
construction of the project improvements. A copy of the approved plans and
specifications shall be placed and remain on file with the City.
      C.   The permittee shall be responsible for all costs and fees associated
with the planning, permitting, and construction of the project. The permittee
agrees that the location and finish grades of the improvements shown on the
parklet site plan will be indicated on the site and approved by the Planning
and Zoning Commission prior to commencement of construction.
      D.   Parklet construction and installation must be overseen by an
insured, certified contractor.
      E.   The permittee is obligated to replace any and all landscaping and
public improvements that are damaged as a result of the construction and
installation of the parklet improvements utilizing the same quality of
materials and workmanship as approved by the City.
142.07   PARKLET OPERATION AND CONDITIONS.
   1.   Depending on the nature of the permit requested and authorized, the
parklet may be operated for the purpose of accommodating the public in general,
without charge, or the patrons of the permittee, and may include providing open
air dining and beverage service opportunities, provided, however, that nothing
herein shall be construed as prohibiting the permittee from charging for the
sale or service of food or beverage within the parklet license area for sales
from the qualifying business.
   2.   Permittee shall preserve and protect all existing trees and plantings
in the public right-of-way within the immediate vicinity of the parklet.
Permittee shall be required to replace or mitigate entirely, at permittee’s
expense, any damage to the public right-of-way or private property as a result
of the parklet construction, installation, placement, operation, maintenance,
or removal.
   3.   General landscape maintenance attendant to the parklet should be
performed on a regular basis at the permittee’s sole cost and expense.
   4.   Awnings, umbrellas, and other decorative material accessory to the
parklet shall be fire retardant, pressure treated or manufactured of fire
resistive material. Patio heaters or heat lamps shall be allowed on the parklet
if pre-approved by the City’s Fire Chief, or their designee.
   5.   Tables, chairs, umbrellas, and any objects accessory to the parklet
shall be maintained in a clean and attractive appearance, shall be in good
state of repair at all times, and shall be maintained in accordance with the
approved maintenance plan, and shall keep the landscaping and plants in a good,
healthy, and vibrant condition.
   6.   The parklet shall be maintained in a neat and orderly appearance at all
times and the area shall be cleared of all debris on a periodic basis during
the day, and again at the close of each business day in compliance with the
approved maintenance plan.
   7.   No tables or chairs will be permitted within 10 feet of a pedestrian
crosswalk. There must be a distance separation of no less than two feet
separating the structure of the parklet and the adjacent travel lane.
   8.   The City may require the permittee to provide additional services
beneath the parklet platform, including, but not limited to, pest abatement
service and clearing of catch basin grates to allow proper storm drainage.
   9.   No portion of any object placed within the parklet boundary shall
extend into an adjacent pedestrian sidewalk.
   10.   If the parklet includes planters, the planters must be placed within
the parklet boundaries but must be secured to ensure that they do not move onto
the adjacent un-level sidewalk. No planters with wheels are to be permitted.
   11.   Tables, seating, umbrellas, and any other items accessory to the
parklet shall be of a quality, design, and lasting materials, and workmanship
both to ensure the safety and convenience of the users and to be compatible
with the uses in the immediate vicinity of the parklet.
   12.   A permittee may sell and serve alcohol beverages in a parklet only if
the permittee complies with all the requirements for obtaining an Alcohol
Beverage License, and the parklet is listed on the Alcohol Beverage License
Application as being a part of the licensed premises. In such cases, alcohol
may be served at the parklet under the following conditions:
      A.   The permittee has a valid and appropriate Retail Alcohol Beverage
License for the principal premises.
      B.   The Retail Alcohol Beverage License premises description includes
the parklet in the description of the licensed premises as an extended area.
      C.   The Retail Alcohol Beverage License permits the sale of the type of
alcohol beverages to be served in the parklet.
      D.   Alcohol beverages are sold and served by the licensee or licensee’s
employees and sold or served only to patrons seated at tables in the parklet.
      E.   Alcohol beverages are served by the licensee or the licensee’s
employees in compliance with alcohol beverage laws, ordinances, and
regulations.
      F.   Alcohol beverages may only be served at the parklet when food
service is available through the licensed establishment.
      G.   The permittee shall be responsible for policing the parklet area to
prevent underage persons from entering or remaining in the parklet, except when
underage persons are allowed to be present on the licensed premises under
applicable laws.
      H.   The area of the restaurant from which the alcohol beverages are
dispensed shall be located indoors and shall not be located in the parklet
area, unless pre-approved by Police Chief, City Administration, and Council.
      I.   At times of closing or during times when consumption of alcohol
beverages is prohibited, permittee shall remove from the parklet area all
containers used for or containing alcohol beverages. No container of alcohol
beverages shall be present in the parklet between 12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   13.   No smoking or use of tobacco of any kind shall be permitted within the
parklet license area. The permittee shall purchase a minimum of two “No
Tobacco” signs for each entrance of the parklet.
   14.   No advertising signs or business identification signs shall be
permitted within the parklet license area.
   15.   No food preparation, food or beverage station, refrigeration
apparatus, or equipment shall be allowed on the parklet unless authorized by
the Planning and Zoning Commission as part of a special event.
   16.   No table or chair nor any other part of the parklet may be attached,
chained, or in any manner affixed to any tree or City fixture but may be
affixed to the parklet structure.
   17.   If found necessary for the protection of health, safety, and welfare
of the public, the City Administrator, or their designee, may require the
permittee to immediately remove or relocate all parts of the tables, chairs,
umbrellas, and equipment within the parklet license area. If the permittee
fails to remove or relocate the tables, chairs, and umbrellas as requested
within a reasonable time as determined by the City Administrator, given the
circumstances at hand, the City may remove or relocate same in emergency
situations, and the cost thereof shall be borne by the permittee.
   18.   Reflective elements are required at the outside corners of all
parklets. Soft-hit posts are a standard solution deployed at the outside edges;
however, the Commission will consider additional safety measures including
bollards, reflective elements, or other solutions incorporated into the parklet
design, if warranted.
   19.   For parklets in parallel parking spaces, a three-foot wheel stop or
other appropriate “stops” such as planters must be installed one foot from the
curb at the edge of the front and back parking spaces. When parklets are
installed adjacent to parallel parking spaces, wheel stops or other appropriate
“stops” such as planters should be set back four feet from the parklet
improvements. For angled parking spaces adjacent to driveways, appropriate
locations for wheel stops will be determined by the Commission. Wheel stops
should be made of recycled rubber. Concrete wheel stops are discouraged.
   20.   Traffic safety devices, including, but not limited to, bollards may be
required depending on existing conditions and site layout to properly protect
the parklet and its patrons.
   21.   The permittee is responsible for the costs associated with removal of
the parklet platform and accessories.
   22.   The City and its officers and employees shall not be responsible for
parklet or parklet components relocated during emergencies.
   23.   Amplified or non-amplified music may be permitted within the parklet
area, upon recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission and subject to
the approval of the City Administrator, or their designee, as to the hours at
which the music may be played, the volume settings, placement of speakers, and
any other facet of the projection of the music.
   24.   The permittee shall, at its sole cost and expense, remove the tables,
chairs, and umbrellas from the parklet area at the close of permittee’s
qualifying business each day, provided the tables, chairs, and umbrellas are
set back in the parklet license area by the opening of business (no later than
11:00 a.m.) the following day, except for inclement weather.
   25.   Parklets shall not be permitted in front of a fire hydrant, over a
manhole, public utility valve, or cover. A clearance of 15 feet shall separate
parklets from fire hydrants.
   26.   Parklets shall be required to have soft-hit posts, wheel stops, and
barriers on all edges of the parklet platform.
   27.   The parklet shall be constructed and installed to conform to all
applicable federal, State, or County laws or regulations.
   28.   There shall be a minimum of two feet wide clear path between the
tables or seating within the parklet and any abutting sidewalks for pedestrians
at all times.
   29.   The permittee shall keep on record with the Commission at all times,
information on a contact person to be contacting during emergencies, such
information on the contact person to include:
      A.   Name.
      B.   Mailing.
      C.   E-mail address.
      D.   Telephone number, both at work and residential.
   30.   The permittee shall have the continuing obligation of compliance with
the Americans with Disabilities Act, as same may be amended from time to time.
   31.   The permittee shall, at its sole cost and expense, construct, operate,
maintain, and repair the parklet and parklet improvements and perform such acts
and do such things as shall be lawfully required by any public body having
jurisdiction over the parklet, parklet improvements and parklet license area
will be installed, constructed, operated, used, maintained, and repaired in
order to comply with health and sanitary requirements, fire hazard
requirements, zoning requirements, Building Code requirements, City engineering
standards, environmental requirements, and other similar regulatory
requirements.
142.08   DATES AND HOURS OF OPERATION.
   1.   Parklets shall be permitted from April 1 through October 31, unless
otherwise approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Parklets that have
not been removed after October 31 may be removed by the City at the permittee’s
expense.
   2.   The parklet shall only be open and available for serving permittee’s
patrons between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m.
142.09   TAXES, ASSESSMENTS; OPERATING COSTS, AND UTILITY CHARGES.
   1.   The permittee shall pay, or cause to be paid, all applicable real
estate taxes, assessments, and other similar payments, usual or unusual,
extraordinary as well as ordinary, which shall during the term be imposed upon,
become due and payable, or become a lien upon the parklet or parklet license
area or any part thereof, but specifically limited to such taxes or assessments
which accrue after the effective date of the Parklet Revocable License.
Permittee shall, upon request, exhibit a receipt for such payments to the City.
Further, permittee shall pay, or cause to be paid, all operating expenses, such
as those for light, electricity, charges for water, and all costs attributable
to the maintenance and operation of all parklet improvements to be erected
within the license area for the parklet or landscaping related thereto.
   2.   The permittee shall be responsible for securing separate meters or
billing for all utilities consumed within the parklet license area. Permittee
shall promptly pay when due all operating, construction, maintenance and
servicing charges, expenses and costs, including telephone, gas, electricity,
cable, telecommunications, water, and all other expenses incurred in the use
and operation of the parklet. The accrual of utilities and operating costs
under this subparagraph prior to termination of the Parklet Revocable License
shall survive the termination of the Parklet Revocable License and remain the
obligation of the permittee.
142.10   INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   By execution of the Parklet Revocable License as a condition precedent
to the installation, construction, use, operation, maintenance, and repair of a
parklet, the permittee shall protect, defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the
City, its officers, employees, and agents from and against any and all
lawsuits, penalties, damages, settlements, judgments, decrees, costs, charges,
and other expenses, including reasonable attorney’s fees, or liabilities of
every kind, nature, or degree arising out of or in connection with the rights,
responsibilities, and obligations of permittee under the Parklet Revocable
License, conditions contained therein, the location, construction, repair,
maintenance, use, or occupancy by permittee of the parklet license area, or the
breach or default by permittee of any condition proscribed by this chapter or
covenants or provisions of the Parklet Revocable License, except for any
occurrence arising out of or resulting from the intentional torts or gross
negligence of the City, its officers, agents, and employees.
   2.   At all times while the Parklet Revocable License is in effect, the
permittee, at its expense, shall keep or cause to be kept in effect the
following:
      A.   Commercial General Liability – Limits of liability:
         (1)   Bodily injury and property damage liability:
            a.   Each occurrence - $1,000,000.00
      B.   Business Automobile Liability – Limits of liability:
         (1)   Bodily injury and property damage:
            a.   Per occurrence - $1,000,000.00 combined single limit;
            b.   Including hired, borrowed, or non-owned autos.
      C.   Employer’s Liability.
         (1)   Limits of liability:
            a.   Each accident - $100,000.00 for bodily injury caused by an
accident;
            b.   Each employee - $100,000.00 for bodily injury caused by
disease;
            c.   Policy limit - $500,000.00 for bodily injury caused by
disease.
   The permittee shall deliver to the City copies of all insurance policies
required hereunder and provide proof of full payment thereof on or before the
effective date of the Parklet Revocable License. From time to time, the
permittee shall procure and pay for renewals of insurance required herein
before it expires. The permittee shall deliver to the Planning and Zoning
Commission the renewal policy at least 20 days before the existing policy
expires.
   3.   If the permittee fails to obtain and maintain insurance as required
herein and such failure shall continue for a period of 15 days after notice by
the Commission, the City may, but shall not be obligated to, effect and
maintain any such insurance coverage and pay premiums therefore, with the
ultimate cost and expense thereof to be the responsibility of permittee.
142.11   DENIAL; REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   1.   The Planning and Zoning Commission may deny, revoke, or suspend a
permit for a parklet if it is found by the Commission that:
      A.   Any required business or health permit has been suspended, revoked,
or cancelled.
      B.   The permittee does not have the insurance that is correct and
effective in the minimum amounts described in Section
142.10.
      C.   Violation of any of the conditions set forth in Section
142.07 or any other provision of this Code.
      D.   The permittee has failed to correct violations of this chapter or
conditions of the permit within three days of receipt of the Planning and
Zoning Commission’s notice of same delivered in writing to the permittee by
registered mail, return receipt requested, to the last address provided by the
permittee to the City.
   2.   The permit for a parklet may be suspended under the following
conditions:
      A.   In the event that the Parklet Revocable License granted herein
shall:
         (1)   Ever conflict with a superior municipal interest of the City or
public, or
         (2)   At any time, the City requires the use of the parklet license
area for a superior conflicting municipal purpose; or
         (3)   Determines that continuation of the Parklet Revocable License
granted herein is no longer in the best public interest, all as determined by
the City Planning and Zoning Commission after at least 15 days advance notice
to permittee that the matter will be considered by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, then, in that event, the permit and Parklet Revocable License
granted herein for the respective parklet license area shall be terminable, in
whole or in part, at the will of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      B.   In the event permittee is in violation of any material term or
condition of this Parklet Revocable License, as reasonably determined by the
City Administrator, or the permit granted herein or the actions of permittee or
any of its agents, servants, employees, guests, or invitees or the agents,
servants, employees, or any of permittee’s contractors, subcontractors, or
independent contractors conflict with a superior municipal interest of the City
or the public, then, upon advance written notice to permittee of not less than
72 hours where permittee is given an opportunity to be heard on the matters by
the City Administrator, the authority granted by the Parklet Revocable License
or permit may be temporarily suspended by the City Administrator for a period
not exceeding 14 days.
      C.   In the event that emergent conditions arise within the parklet
license area that present an imminent threat to the health, safety, or welfare
of persons or property, the City Administrator may temporarily suspend this
Parklet Revocable License, in whole or in part, for a period not to exceed 14
days. In such a circumstance, 24-hour advanced written notice shall be provided
to permittee by registered mail, return receipt requested, to the last address
provided by the permittee to the City. In the event the condition persists for
a period of seven days, then this revocable license may be temporarily
suspended for a period in excess of 14 days by action of the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
   3.   Upon denial or revocation, the Director shall give notice of such
action to the permittee in writing stating the action which has been taken and
the reasons therefore.
142.12   APPEALS.
   1.   Appeal shall be initiated within 10 days of the effective date of the
denial or revocation of the parklet permit by filing a written notice of appeal
with the City Administrator.
   2.   The City Administrator shall place the appeal on the next available
regularly scheduled Planning and Zoning Commission agenda. At the hearing upon
appeal, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall hear and determine the appeal,
and the decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be final and
binding and effective immediately.
   3.   The filing of a notice of appeal by a permittee shall not stay an order
by the Planning and Zoning Director, or their designee, to remove a parklet or
parts thereof. Vestiges of the parklet, such as tables, chairs, umbrellas, and
things of a like nature shall be removed immediately as set out in this chapter
pending disposition of the appeal and final decision of the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
CHAPTER 151
TREES AND VEGETATION
151.01 Definitions                      151.12 Obstruction of Enforcement
151.02 Planting Restrictions            151.13 Permit to Plant in Streets
151.03 Vision Clearance at Street       151.14 Assessment for Planting or Care
Intersections                           of Trees
151.04 Assessment                       151.15 Planting New Trees; Assessment
151.05 Unauthorized Interference with   151.16 Schedule of Assessments
Trees or Shrubs
151.06 Hitching or Anchoring Articles   151.17 Filing Assessment Schedule for
to Trees                                Public Inspection
151.07 Permission for Permanent         151.18 Objections to Assessment
Anchorage                               Schedule
151.08 Guying Poles to Trees in Case of 151.19 Adoption of Assessment Schedule
Emergency
151.09 Permit to Remove Trees for       151.20 Certifying Assessment Schedule
Construction Purposes                   for Collection
151.10 Protection During Excavation or  151.21 Dead and Diseased Trees
Construction
151.11 Tree Trim Specifications         151.22 Violations
 
151.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined.
   1.   “Parking” means that part of the street, avenue, or highway in the City
not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb line or, on
unpaved streets, that part of the street, avenue, or highway lying between the
lot line and that portion of the street usually traveled by vehicular traffic.
   2.   “Superintendent” means the Public Works Director or such other person
as may be designated by the Council.
   3.   “Tree” means any woody perennial plant having a single, elongate main
stem with few or no branches on its lower part and shrubs of arborescent form
but does not include any shrub that is less than 15 feet in height.
151.02   PLANTING RESTRICTIONS.
   No tree shall be planted in any street or parking unless a permit is issued
pursuant to Section
151.13.
151.03   VISION CLEARANCE AT STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   On a corner lot where setback or side yard exists, no fence, wall,
shrubbery, ground, sign, billboard, marquee, or other obstruction to vision
between a height of two feet and 10 feet above the centerline grade of
intersecting streets shall be erected, placed, planted, allowed to grow, or
maintained within the triangular. The dimensions of a vision triangle shall be
as follows:
   1.   Local Streets. Twenty-five feet in length, as measured along the curb
line form the point where the curbs of the streets intersect.
   2.   Collector and Arterial Streets. Twenty-five feet in length, as measured
along the ROW from the point where the two streets intersect.
Public utility poles and existing trees trimmed from the ground level to a
height of 10 feet shall not be considered obstructions to vision.
151.04   ASSESSMENT.
   If the abutting property owner fails to trim the trees as required in this
chapter, the City may serve notice on such property owner requiring said
property owner to do so within five days. If said owner fails to trim the trees
within that time, the City may perform the required action and assess the costs
against the abutting property for collection in the same manner as a property
tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(d) and (e))
151.05   UNAUTHORIZED INTERFERENCE WITH TREES OR SHRUBS.
   No person shall remove, prune, cut, molest, break, deface, destroy, spray,
repair, or do surgery work upon any tree or part thereof, or in any manner
interfere with, disturb, or injure any tree, shrub, or plant, upon parking or
the public property of the City. No person shall permit any chemical, either
solids or fluids, to seep, drain, or be emptied on or about any tree, shrub, or
plant that is now or may hereafter be growing upon any public property of the
City, without first obtaining a permit from the City Administrator.
151.06   HITCHING OR ANCHORING ARTICLES TO TREES.
   No person shall hitch or fasten any animal to any tree or shrub, or fasten
to the same, for the purpose of anchorage, any wire, rope, chain, or cable, nor
shall any person nail, tie, or in any manner fasten any card, sign, poster,
board, or any other article to any tree, shrub, or plant that is now or may
hereafter be growing upon any parking or public property of the City.
151.07   PERMISSION FOR PERMANENT ANCHORAGE.
   Permission may be granted by the City Administrator for permanent anchorage
to trees if good practice in line construction indicates the desirability and
the elimination of stubs or poles will result by so doing.
151.08   GUYING POLES TO TREES IN CASE OF EMERGENCY.
   In the event of storms or other emergencies, poles may be guyed temporarily
to trees.
151.09   PERMIT TO REMOVE TREES FOR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES.
   Any person desiring to remove a live tree standing on a street or parking
thereof for construction of walks, drives, buildings, or any other structures
for their own gain or purposes shall first obtain a permit from the City
Administrator. If a permit is issued, the permittee must pay the cost of
removal of such trees and shrubs, or the permittee may remove the same at
permittee’s own expense.
151.10   PROTECTION DURING EXCAVATION OR CONSTRUCTION.
   All trees, shrubs, or plants within the limits of any street, parking, or
other property of the City near any excavation or construction of any building
or structure shall be guarded with a good substantial frame or box not less
than four feet square and six feet high. All building material or other debris
shall be kept at least three feet from any tree, shrub, or plant.
151.11   TREE TRIM SPECIFICATIONS.
   1.   Any person trimming trees or causing trees, bushes, and other plants to
be trimmed under the authority of this section or sections of this Code
pertaining to utility franchises, if the entity wishing to trim is not itself
the owner, shall:
      A.   Cause written notice to be given to the owner, occupant, or person
in control of the property at least 15 days prior to any trimming; provided,
however, notice shall not be required if trimming is necessary to restore
electrical service or relieve a public emergency resulting from storm,
accident, similar casualty, or other cause which immediately threatens
electrical service or public safety. The notice shall state the nature of the
trimming to be performed, the person’s right to trim the tree, shrubbery, bush,
or other plants, the date when such trimming must be completed if the owner
desires to do the trimming, and whether an assessment or charge will be imposed
by such person for trimming the tree, bush, or other plant.
      B.   Trim trees, bushes, and plants to the extent necessary to remove
obstruction to protect lives and property.
      C.   Employ persons skilled in tree trimming so that the life and general
aesthetic qualities of the tree are preserved.
   2.   The owner of any tree, shrub, or plant protruding into or overhanging a
street or sidewalk shall trim the branches thereof to remove any obstruction of
the view of any streetlamp, street sign, traffic control device, or street
intersection. A clear space of 10 feet above the surface of a street or
sidewalk must be maintained. All trimming shall conform to the specifications
in Subsection 1 of this section and to those required pursuant to the City’s
Traffic Code.
   3.   The City Administrator may order the removal of any tree, shrub, or
plant or any part thereof which does not conform to the specification of
Subsection 2 of this section. Notice shall be given to the owner of the
property as set forth in Subsection 1 of this section. If the owner, occupant,
or person in control fails to comply with the notice, the City Administrator
shall cause the obstructing branches or foliage to be removed and shall submit
the costs incident to the service of notice and removal to the Council, which
shall certify the same to the County Auditor for collection with and in the
same manner as general property taxes. Provided, however, in the event the City
Administrator determines that a hazardous condition exists which constitutes an
immediate danger to public safety because of the extensive nature or location
of an obstruction caused by any tree, shrub, plant, or any part thereof, the
City Administrator may cause the removal thereof forthwith without notice; and
in such event, costs may be assessed in the same manner as provided above,
after notice to the property owner and opportunity for hearing before the
Council is given.
   4.   Except as provided by Subsection 3 of this section, no tree, bush, or
shrub shall be removed without the written consent of the owner of the property
upon which the tree, bush, or shrub is located.
   5.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the rights of a
landowner as against a neighboring landowner.
151.12   OBSTRUCTION OF ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall hinder, obstruct, or otherwise interfere with the
Superintendent, or their representatives, while engaged in carrying out the
provisions of this chapter.
151.13   PERMIT TO PLANT IN STREETS.
   1.   No person shall plant or set out any tree, shrub, or plant in or on any
parking, public highway, street, or other City property without first obtaining
a permit from the City Administrator, which permit shall designate where such
plantings may be done.
   2.   The permit shall be denied if such planting is likely to create a
public danger or nuisance and shall not provide the permittee with any
guarantee or assurance that the tree, shrub, or plant will be protected from
subsequent trimming or destruction if such is required for health, welfare, or
safety of the City’s residents.
151.14   ASSESSMENT FOR PLANTING OR CARE OF TREES.
   The cost of planting, pruning, caring for, removing, or maintaining trees
and shrubs, in whole or in part, upon the parking or public streets of the City
may be assessed against the lots and parcels of land in front of which such
trees or shrubs are planted and maintained.
151.15   PLANTING NEW TREES; ASSESSMENT.
   No plantings of new trees or shrubs shall be made and assessed against the
abutting property owners except by action of the Council. Notice of a proposal
to plant new trees or shrubs must be made by publication in one newspaper of
general circulation in the City 15 days prior to final action thereon.
151.16   SCHEDULE OF ASSESSMENTS.
   The cost of planting new trees and shrubs and the maintenance thereof,
including removals and partial removal of trees and shrubs, shall be certified
to the Council by the Superintendent in a scheduled form setting forth the
nature of the work done, the amount of the special assessment, the lots of
specific portions thereof against which assessed, and the names of the owners
thereof as far as practicable.
151.17   FILING ASSESSMENT SCHEDULE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   A schedule of assessments for planting of new trees and shrubs and
maintenance, including removals and partial removal of trees and shrubs, shall
be filed with the Clerk for public inspection.
151.18   OBJECTIONS TO ASSESSMENT SCHEDULE.
   Before final adoption of the schedule of assessments provided for in this
chapter, the Council shall give notice by two publications in each of two
newspapers published in the City, stating that the schedule is on file in the
office of the Clerk and that, within 20 days after the first publication, all
objections thereto or to the prior proceedings, on account of errors,
irregularities or inequalities, must be made in writing and filed with the
Clerk.
151.19   ADOPTION OF ASSESSMENT SCHEDULE.
   After the expiration of the 20-day period mentioned in Section
151.18, the Council shall consider objections to the schedule of assessments,
make the necessary corrections, and make, approve, and adopt the special
assessments as shown in the schedule.
151.20   CERTIFYING ASSESSMENT SCHEDULE FOR COLLECTION.
   Upon final adoption of special assessments as shown in the schedule of
assessments, the Council shall cause the same to be certified to the County
Treasurer with directions that the cost of the improvements or services as
scheduled shall be assessed against the parcels of property designated therein,
in the amounts set forth thereby, and that such amounts shall be collected as
other special assessments.
151.21   DEAD AND DISEASED TREES.
   1.   Right to Enter, Test, and Inspect. The Public Works Director shall
enforce the provisions of this section. To secure enforcement hereof, the
Superintendent shall have the right and is hereby empowered to enter upon the
property of any person within the City for the purpose of testing, inspecting,
and obtaining samples of any trees, brush, wood, or debris thereon.
   2.   Permitting Dead or Diseased Trees or Plants to Stand.
      A.   No property owner shall maintain or permit to stand upon their
property any tree, shrub, plant, or part thereof which is dead, diseased, or so
damaged as to be a menace to public safety.
      B.   When the Superintendent determines that any tree, shrub, plant, or
part thereof is dead, diseased, or so damaged as to be a menace to public
safety, the Superintendent may direct the property owner, occupant, or person
in control to remove the same within 30 days, or to appear before the Council
at an appointed time not less than 14 days from the date of mailing to show
cause for hearing on the matter, to show cause why the tree, shrub, plant, or
the appropriate part thereof should not be removed by the City with the cost of
removal assessed against the property owner. At that meeting the Council may
resolve and declare the same to be a public nuisance and may order its removal
by the owner, occupant, or person in control within 30 days from the date of
service of a copy of the resolution and order on the owner, occupant, or person
in control.
      C.   If the owner, occupant, or person in control fails to comply with
the resolution and order of the Council to so remove previously specified
public nuisance, the Superintendent shall cause that public nuisance to be
removed and shall submit the costs incident to the service and removal to the
Council, which shall certify the same to the County Treasurer for collection
with and in the same manner as general property taxes.
   3.   Removal of Trees, Shrubs, and Plants. The Superintendent may remove or
cause to be removed all trees, shrubs, plants, or parts thereof upon the public
streets or highways or other City property within the City when removal shall
be beneficial to the public peace, health, and safety, or for public
improvements, or if such trees, shrubs, or plants constitute a public nuisance
or are dead or diseased, or detrimental to the growth of adjacent trees,
plants, or shrubs growing in the public streets or other City property.
   4.   Removal of Trees Infected with Dutch Elm Disease, Emerald Ash Borer, or
Oak Wilt.
      A.   In accordance with Section 364.12 of the Code of Iowa, any owner,
occupant, or person in control of any property shall remove from such property,
at their own expense, any tree, brush, wood, or debris infected with Dutch elm
disease, emerald ash borer, or oak wilt or any dead oak or elm which retains
bark, when so notified by the Superintendent. The Superintendent shall cause to
be mailed to such owner, occupant, or person in control written notice that
said person may appear before the Council at an appointed time not less than 14
days from the date of mailing to show cause why the infected tree, brush, wood,
or debris should not be declared a public nuisance. At that meeting the Council
may resolve and declare the same to be a public nuisance and may order its
removal by the owner, occupant, or person in control within 30 days from the
date of service of a copy of the resolution and order on the owner, occupant,
or person in control; provided, however, upon timely receipt of a request in
writing from the property owner showing inability to perform, hardship, or
other good cause, the City Administrator may grant an extension of time to a
maximum of an additional 30 days for said removal by the owner, occupant, or
other person. No extension of time exceeding 60 days may be granted without
prior approval by the Council.
      B.   If the owner, occupant, or person in control fails to comply with
the resolution and order of the Council to so remove previously specified
public nuisance, the Superintendent shall cause that public nuisance to be
removed and shall submit the costs incident to the service and removal to the
Council, which shall certify the same to the County Treasurer for collection
with and in the same manner as general property taxes.
   5.   Diseased Tree and Hazardous Inspection Fees.
      A.   Fees for the City inspection of a tree or trees shall be paid to the
Finance Director in an amount set by the Annual Fee Schedule approved by
Council, provided fees for inspections not requested by the owner or the
owner’s representative shall be assessed only against those trees showing
evidence of disease or hazardous conditions which requires removal of the tree
or part of the tree.
      B.   For the purpose of this section, “private property” is defined as
property not owned by the City.
151.22   VIOLATIONS.
   Violation of any section of this chapter shall be deemed a nuisance or a
municipal infraction and may be enforced in accordance with
Chapter 50 and
Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 152
TEMPORARY STRUCTURES
 
152.01 Definitions                        152.05 Permit Fees
152.02 Compliance with Chapter Provisions 152.06 Compliance with Codes
152.03 Permit Required                    152.07 Removal
152.04 Permit Application
 
152.01   DEFINITIONS.
   “Temporary structure” means any shed, structure, building, trailer, tent, or
enclosure of any kind used for storage, commercial, or business or residential
purposes which any person or business intends to place on the same lot with or
on any lot immediately adjacent to, any permanent structure used for business
or commercial or residential purposes. This term includes “temporary portable
storage container,” which is defined as a large container designed and rented
or leased for the temporary storage of commercial, industrial, or residential
household goods and that does not contain a foundation or wheels for movement.
All other words or phrases shall have the same meaning assigned to them in
Chapter 166.
152.02   COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   No temporary structure or accessory structure shall be erected, constructed,
or placed, except as hereinafter provided.
152.03   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No temporary structure or accessory structure shall be erected, constructed,
or placed upon any commercial or business or residential property without first
obtaining a permit from the Clerk. All permits are subject to approval by the
Zoning Administrator. Further, the Zoning Administrator may impose certain
reasonable requirements as may be required to keep the temporary structure from
becoming unsightly to the surrounding properties.
152.04   PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Prior to seeking approval, an applicant shall file a permit application with
the Clerk stating:
   1.   The name and address of the person or business seeking the permit;
   2.   A particular description of where the proposed temporary structure or
accessory structure will be erected, constructed, or placed;
   3.   The need for such structure;
   4.   The period of time the proposed structure will be present on the
property; and
   5.   A particular description, including the dimensions, of the temporary
structure or accessory structure to be erected, constructed, or placed upon the
property.
152.05   PERMIT FEES.
   Upon approval by the Clerk and payment of a permit fee, the Clerk shall
issue a permit to the applicant. The permit for a Business or Commercial Class
Permit shall be for a period of 30 days and shall authorize the erection,
construction, or placement of a temporary structure on the property described
in the application. The fee shall be in the amount as established, from time to
time, by resolution of the Council. Residential Class Permit fee is waived for
the first 180 days with the start of a new building, plumbing, mechanical, or
electrical permit. After 180 days, fees imposed shall be in the amount as
established, from time to time, by resolution of the Council.
152.06   COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   Any such temporary structure erected, constructed, or placed upon property
shall comply with all applicable provisions of this Code, including the Fire,
Electrical, and Building Codes. Containers must be placed on a hard-surfaced
area and shall be located on the owner’s lot, and no part of any container
shall be located on any public property or in the right-of-way.
152.07   REMOVAL.
   All such temporary structures or accessory uses or structures shall be
removed from the property at the expiration of the time period defined in the
permit.
CHAPTER 153
TEMPORARY SIGNS
(See
Chapter 175, Zoning Code - Sign Regulations)
CHAPTER 155
BUILDING CODES
 
155.01 Title                      155.07 Electrical Code
155.02 Adoption of Building Codes 155.08 Energy Conservation Code
155.03 Building Code              155.09 Existing Building Code
155.04 Residential Code           155.10 Swimming Pool and Spa Code
155.05 Mechanical Code            155.11 Adoption Of International Fire Code
155.06 Plumbing Code
 
155.01   TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Building Codes of the City, may be cited
as such, and will be referred to herein as the “Windsor Heights Building Code
(s).”
155.02   ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODES.
   The following codes are hereby adopted as, and constitute, the Building
Codes of the City, to regulate the erection, construction, enlargement,
alteration, repair, moving, removal, conversion, demolition, occupancy,
equipment, use, height, area, and maintenance of buildings or structures in the
City.
155.03   BUILDING CODE.
   The provisions of the International Building Code, 2024 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council and with the addition of Appendix
C, are hereby adopted, subject to the following additions, modifications,
insertions, and deletions:
   1.   Section 101.1 Title. Delete existing text and insert: “These
regulations shall be known as the Windsor Heights Building Code, hereinafter
referred to as “this Code.”
   2.   Section 101.4.1 Gas. Delete “International” and insert in lieu thereof
“Windsor Heights” and add at the end of the section: “All references in this
code to the International Fuel Gas Code shall be interpreted to refer to the
Windsor Heights Fuel Gas Code.”
   3.   Section 101.4.2 Mechanical. Delete “International” and insert in lieu
thereof “Windsor Heights” and add at the end of the section: “All references in
this Code to the International Mechanical Code shall be interpreted to refer to
the Windsor Heights Mechanical Gas Code.”
   4.   Section 101.4.3 Plumbing. Delete “International Plumbing Code” and
insert in lieu thereof “Windsor Heights Plumbing Code” and add at the end of
the section: “All references in this Code to the International Plumbing Code
shall be interpreted to refer to the Windsor Heights Plumbing Code.”
   5.   Section 101.4.4 Property Maintenance. Delete “International” and insert
in lieu thereof “Windsor Heights” and add at the end of the section: “All
references in this Code to the International Property Maintenance Code shall be
interpreted to refer to the Windsor Heights Property Maintenance Code.”
   6.   Section 101.4.5 Fire Prevention. Delete “International” and insert in
lieu thereof “Windsor Heights” and add at the end of the section: “All
references in this Code to the International Fire Code shall be interpreted to
refer to the Windsor Heights Fire Code.”
   7.   Section 101.4.6 Energy. Delete “International” and insert in lieu
thereof “Windsor Heights” and add at the end of the section: “All references in
this Code to the International Energy Conservation Code shall be interpreted to
refer to the Windsor Heights Energy Conservation Code.”
   8.   Section 101.4.7 Existing Buildings. Delete “International” and insert
in lieu thereof “Windsor Heights” and add at the end of the section: “All
references in this Code to the International Existing Building Code shall be
interpreted to refer to the Windsor Heights Existing Building Code.”
   9.   Section 101.4 Referenced Codes. Add Subsection 101.4.8: “101.4.8
Electrical. The provisions of the Windsor Heights Electrical Code shall apply
to the installation, alteration, repair, and replacement of electrical systems,
including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings, and appurtenances. All
references in this Code to NFPA 70 shall be interpreted to refer to the Windsor
Heights Electrical Code.”
   10.   Section 103.1 Creation of Enforcement Agency. Insert “Department of
Building Safety”.
   11.   Section 104.2.3 Alternative Materials, Design, and Methods of
Construction and Equipment. Add Subsection 104.2.3.8: “104.2.3.8 Manufactured
home installation. The Iowa Administrative Code 481, Chapters 321 and 322, are
hereby adopted for installation of mobile (manufactured) homes.”
   12.   Section 105.2 Work exempt from Permit. Building Item #1. Delete “120”
and insert in lieu thereof “200.”
   13.   Section 105.2 Work exempt from Permit. Building Item #2. Delete
existing text.
   14.   Section 105.2 Work Exempt from Permit. Building Item #6. Delete
existing text and insert: “Sidewalks and driveways located entirely on private
property, and not more than 30 inches above adjacent grade, and not over any
basement or story below, and not part of an accessible route.”
   15.   Section 107.1 General. Delete “in two or more sets, or in a digital
format where allowed by the Building Official,”.
   16.   Section 107.3.1 Approval of Construction Documents. Delete this
section.
   17.   Section 305.2.3 Five or Fewer Children in a Dwelling Unit. Delete this
section and insert: “305.2.3: Eight or fewer children in a dwelling unit. A
facility such as the above within a dwelling unit and having eight or fewer
children receiving such daycare shall be classified as a Group R-3 Occupancy or
shall comply with the International Residential Code.”
   18.   Section 308.5.4 Five or Fewer Persons Receiving Care in a Dwelling
Unit. Delete this section and insert: “308.5.4 Eight or fewer persons receiving
care in a dwelling unit. A facility such as the above within a dwelling unit
and having eight or fewer persons receiving custodial care shall be classified
as a Group R-3 Occupancy or shall comply with the International Residential
Code.”
   19.   Section 310.4.1 Care facilities within a Dwelling. Delete existing
text and insert: “Care facilities for eight or fewer persons receiving care
that are within a single-family dwelling are permitted to comply with the
International Residential Code.”
   20.   Section 423.5 Group E Occupancy. Delete existing text and insert: “In
areas where the shelter design wind speed for tornadoes is 250 MPH in
accordance with Figure 304.2 (1) of ICC 500, all Group E Occupancies with an
occupant load of 50 or more shall have a storm shelter constructed in
accordance with Chapters 1 through 5 and 8 of ICC 500.
   Exceptions:
      1.   Group E daycare facilities.
   2.   Group E occupancies, accessory to place of religious worship.
      3.   Buildings meeting the requirements for shelter design in ICC 500.”
   21.   Section 423.5.1 Design Occupant Capacity. Delete existing text,
exceptions excepted, and insert in lieu thereof “The required design occupant
capacity of the storm shelter shall include all of the buildings on the site
and shall be the greater of the total occupant load of the classrooms,
vocational rooms, and offices in the Group E Occupancy, or the occupant load of
any indoor assembly space that is associated with the Group E Occupancy. If
multiple separate indoor assembly spaces are present, only the greatest indoor
assembly space occupant load must be included.”
   22.   Section 502.1 Address Identification. Delete existing text and insert:
“New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers, building
numbers, or approved building identification placed in a position that is
plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the property.
These numbers shall be black or white and shall contrast with their background.
Where required by the Fire Code Official, address numbers shall be provided in
greater dimensions or additional approved locations to facilitate emergency
response. Address numbers shall be Arabic numbers or alphabetical letters.
Numbers and letters shall be a minimum height and a minimum stroke width as
dictated by Table 502.1. Where access is by means of a private road and the
building cannot be viewed from the public way, a monument, pole, or other sign
or means shall be used to identify the structure. Address numbers shall be
maintained.”
   23.   Section 502.1 Address identification. Add Table 502.1:
Table 502.1 Minimum Height and Stroke Width a, b
Distance from Centerline of Minimum Height (in) Minimum Stroke Width (in)
Public Way (ft.)
Table 502.1 Minimum Height and Stroke Width a, b
Distance from Centerline of Minimum Height (in) Minimum Stroke Width (in)
Public Way (ft.)
Less than 100               4                   ½
100 to less than 200        6                   ¾
200 to less than 300        8                   1
For each additional 100     Increase 2”       Increase ½”
a. Exterior suite identification, minimum height shall be four inches,
and minimum stroke width shall be ½”
b. Interior suite identification, minimum height shall be two inches, and
minimum stroke width shall be ¼”
 
   24.   Section 508.5.7 Fire Protection. Delete the last paragraph and inset
in lieu thereof “Live/work units in buildings constructed in accordance with
the Windsor Heights Residential Code shall be provided with smoke alarms
complying with Section 310 of the Windsor Heights Residential Code.”
   25.   Section 902.1 Pump and Riser Room Size. Add Subsections 902.1.5 and
902.1.5.1: “902.1.5 Fire sprinkler Riser Room. A fire sprinkler riser room
shall be separated from the electrical room. The riser room shall have no
electrical panels, devices, or apparatus inside the room other than the outlets
or support equipment (lighting) air compressor and heater required for the use
by the fire sprinkler system or the fire alarm panel. Access to the fire
sprinkler riser room shall not be accessed from the electrical room, but the
electrical room may be accessed from the fire sprinkler riser room. 902.1.5.1
Fire Sprinkler Riser Signage. Signage as determined by the Fire Code Official
shall be placed on the main sprinkler riser denoting a shunt trip has been
installed.”
   26.   Section 903.2 Where Required. Delete existing text, including all
subsections and exceptions and insert: “Approved automatic sprinkler systems in
new buildings and structures shall be provided in the locations described in
the Windsor Heights Fire Code.”
   27.   Section 903.3.1 Standards. Add Subsection 903.3.1.4: “903.3.1.4 Fire
Sprinklers for Canopies. A canopy covering a door that is required to be marked
as an exit shall be required to have fire sprinklers installed outside that
door if the canopy extends more than four feet out from the door and is 12 feet
or less in height from the ground, regardless if the canopy is combustible or
noncombustible. All canopies, regardless of height or construction type, that
have vehicle access under them with door openings shall be required to have
fire sprinklers installed under the entire canopy. Exception. If a building is
not required by Code to have a fire sprinkler system, Section 903.3.1.4 does
not apply.”
   28.   Section 903.3.7 Fire Department Connections. Add Subsection 903.3.7.1:
“903.3.7.1 Fire Department Connection Identification. A minimum of 110 candela
weather proof strobe light suitable for cold weather use with a minimum of 75
candela at minus 30° shall be tied into the building fire alarm system and
mounted directly above the Fire Department connection between seven feet and 10
feet in height from the ground, or as approved by the Code official, shall
operate on a waterflow alarm.”
   29.   Section 905.3 Required Installations. Add Subsection 905.3.8: “905.3.8
Additional Standpipe Systems. Additional standpipe systems may be added to new
buildings or structures as deemed necessary by the Fire Code Official.”
   30.   Section 906.3.1 Class A Fire Hazards. Add Subsection 906.3.1.1:
“906.3.1.1 Minimum Sizes. Portable fire extinguishers for fire protection in
low and moderate hazard occupancies shall be five-pound ABC in buildings that
are covered throughout with a fire sprinkler system. If there is no fire
sprinkler system in low or moderate hazard occupancy, a 10-pound ABC fire
extinguisher shall be installed. Spacing is based on a 75-foot travel distance
to the fire extinguisher. Portable fire extinguishers for fire protection in
high hazard occupancies shall be 10-pound ABC in buildings that are covered
throughout with a fire sprinkler system. If there is no fire sprinkler system
in a high hazard occupancy, a 20-pound ABC fire extinguisher shall be
installed. Spacing is based on a 50-foot travel distance to the fire
extinguisher.”
   31.   Section 906.3.2 Class B Fire Hazards. Add Subsection 906.3.2.1:
“906.3.2.1 Minimum Sizes. Portable fire extinguishers for fire protection in
low hazard occupancies shall be five-pound ABC in buildings that are covered
throughout with a fire sprinkler system. If there is no fire sprinkler system
in a low hazard occupancy, a 10-pound ABC fire extinguisher shall be installed.
Spacing is based on a 50-foot travel distance to the fire extinguisher.
Portable fire extinguishers for fire protection in moderate hazard occupancies
shall be 10-pound ABC in buildings that are covered throughout with a fire
sprinkler system. If there is no fire sprinkler system in a moderate hazard
occupancy, a 20-pound ABC fire extinguisher shall be installed. Spacing is
based on a 50-foot travel distance to the fire extinguisher. Portable fire
extinguishers for fire protection in high hazard occupancies shall be 20-pound
ABC in buildings that are covered throughout with a fire sprinkler system. If
there is no fire sprinkler system in a high hazard occupancy, a 20-pound ABC
fire extinguisher shall be installed. Spacing is based on a 50-foot travel
distance to the fire extinguisher with a fire sprinkler system, 30-foot travel
distance with no fire sprinkler system. Other hazardous occupancies will refer
to NFPA 10.”
   32.   Section 907.1 General. Add Subsection 907.1.4: “907.1.4 Fire Alarm
Control Panels (FACP). Each building shall have no more than one fire alarm
control panel. Installation of the fire alarm control panel shall not exceed
six feet in height, measured from the floor to the top of the control panel.
Exception: Suppression system releasing panels are not required to meet the
height requirement or the limitation on the number of panels.”
   33.   Section 907.2 Where Required - New Buildings and Structures. Delete
existing text, including all subsections and exceptions, and insert: “Approved
fire alarm systems in new buildings and structures shall be provided in the
locations described in the Windsor Heights Fire Code.”
   34.   Section 907.6.4 Zones. Add Subsection 907.6.4.3: “907.6.4.3 Zone and
Address Location Labeling. Fire alarm panels shall have all zones and address
points plainly and permanently labeled as to their location on the outside of
the panel or on an easily readable map of the building if no display screen is
present.”
   35.   Section 907.6.6 Monitoring. Delete existing text, including
exceptions, and insert: “When required by this chapter, or the Code Official,
an approved UL listed remote station in accordance with NFPA 72 shall monitor
fire alarm systems to provide for the immediate and automatic notification of
the Fire Department. Exception: Supervisory service is not required in one- and
two-family dwellings.”
   36.   Section 910.1 General. Add Exception: “Exception: The Code Official
may require smoke removal equipment be installed if it is deemed necessary by
the Code Official for the protection of life and property.”
   37.   Section 912.2 Location. Add Subsection 912.2.3: “912.2.3 Fire
Department Connection Height. The Fire Department connection shall be located
not less than 18 inches from the bottom of the caps and not more than three
feet from the top of the caps above the level of the adjacent grade or access
level. The Code Official for just cause may grant deviation to this height.”
   38.   Section 912.4 Access. Delete existing text and insert: “Immediate
access to Fire Department connection shall be maintained at all times and
without obstruction by fences, bushes, trees, walls, or any other objects for a
minimum of a five-foot clear space on each side of the connection to include in
front of and above the connection.”
   39.   Section 1009.2 Continuity and Components. Add Item Number 11: “11.
Concrete, asphalt, or other approved hard-surface exterior walking surfaces.”
   40.   Section 1013.1 Where Required. Add at the end of the section:
“Additional exit signs may be required at the discretion of the Fire Code
Official to clarify an exit or exit access.”
   41.   Section 1028.5 Access to a Public Way. Add at the end of the section:
“Components of exterior walking surfaces shall be hard-surfaced.”
   42.   Section 1301.1.1 Criteria. Delete “International” and insert in lieu
thereof “Windsor Heights”.
   43.   Section 1612.3 Establishment of Flood Hazard Areas. Insert: “City of
Windsor Heights, Iowa” and “as adopted in City of Windsor Heights Code of
Ordinances Chapter 185”.
   44.   Section 1807.1.5 Concrete and Masonry Foundation Walls. Add Exception
#2 and Table 1807.1.5: “2. Concrete and masonry foundation walls supporting
buildings of conventional light-frame wood construction shall be permitted to
be designed in accordance with Table 1807.1.5.
Table 1807.1.5 Prescriptive Foundation Walls Supporting Light-Frame
Constructiona, b, c
Height of                  Reinforcement
Foundation Thickness of    Size and      Reinforcement Size and Placement in
Walld      Foundation Wall Placement in  Masonry Wallj, k
                           Concrete Wall
Gross      Nete            Concretef     Masonryg Horizontal Vertical
Table 1807.1.5 Prescriptive Foundation Walls Supporting Light-Frame Constructiona, b, c
Height of  Thickness  Reinforcement
Foundation of         Size and      Reinforcement Size and Placement in Masonry Wallj, k
Walld      Foundation Placement in
           Wall       Concrete Wall
Gross      Nete       Concretef     Masonryg Horizontal                                                           Vertical
=8’      =7’-8” 7.5”        8”     No. 4 bar within 12” of the top and bottom of the wall and at mid- No. 4 bar at 72” o.c. 0.075 square inch bar at 96” o.c. vertically in cells fully grouted with
                                             height                                                               maximum                 Type M or S grout
>8’      >7’-8” 8”          Refer to No. 4 bar at 24” o.c. maximumh                                     No. 4 bar at 20” o.c. Refer to 1807.1.6
                                    R404.1.2                                                                      maximumi
a. Concrete floor slab to be nominal 4” thick. If such floor slab is not provided prior to backfill, one 36” vertical No. 4 bar shall be embedded in the footing at maximum 84” o.c. spacing or a full depth nominal
2” depth x 4” width keyway shall be installed in the footing.
b. All reinforcement bars shall meet ASTM A6175 grade 40 minimum and be deformed. Placement of bars shall be 3” from the inside face of the wall and meet the provisions of chapters 18, 19, and 21 of the
International Building Code.
c. Material used as backfill shall be carefully placed granular soil of average or high permeability and shall be drained with an approved drainage system as prescribed in Section 1805.4 of the International
Building Code. Where soils containing a high percentage of clay, fine silt, or similar materials of low permeability or expansive soils are encountered or where backfill materials are not drained or an unusually
high surcharge is to be placed adjacent to the wall, a specially designed wall shall be required.
d. Maximum foundation wall height is 10’ gross and nine-foot eight-inch net.
e. Net foundation wall height measured from top of basement slab to top of foundation wall.
f. The thickness of concrete foundation walls supporting three floors shall be increased two inches.
g. The thickness of masonry foundation walls supporting three floors shall be increased four inches.
h. No. 5 bar at 24” o.c. maximum is an approved alternative.
i. No. 5 bar at 30” o.c. maximum is an approved alternative.
j. Mortar for masonry walls shall be Type M or S and masonry shall be laid in running bond.
k. If masonry block is 12” nominal thickness, wall may be unreinforced.”
 
   45.   Section 1809.5 Frost Protection, Exception 2. Delete “600” and insert
in lieu thereof “1,000.”
   46.   Section 1809.5.1 Frost Protection At Required Exits. Delete this
section and insert in lieu thereof: “1809.5.1 Landing Frost Protection.
Exterior landings required by Section 1010.1.4 to be at the same elevation on
each side of the door shall be provided with frost protection.”
   47.   Section 1809.7 Prescriptive Footings For Light-Frame Construction.
Delete existing Table 1809.7 and all footnotes and insert:
Table 1809.7 Prescriptive Footings Supporting Walls of Light-Frame
Construction a, b, c, d, e, f
Number of     Thickness Of     Thickness of
Floors        Foundation Walls Foundation Walls Width of Footing Thickness of
Supported By  (in), Concrete   (in), Concrete   (in)             Footing (in)
The Footing g                  Block
Table 1809.7 Prescriptive Footings Supporting Walls of Light-Frame
Construction a, b, c, d, e, f
Number of     Thickness Of     Thickness of
Floors        Foundation Walls Foundation Walls Width of Footing Thickness of
Supported By  (in), Concrete   (in), Concrete   (in)             Footing (in)
The Footing g                  Block
1             8                8                16               8
2             8                8                16               8
3             10               12               18               12
a. Depth of perimeter footings shall be at least 42 inches below final grade.
b. The ground under the floor shall be permitted to be excavated to the
elevation of the bottom of the footing.
c. Interior stud-bearing walls shall be permitted to be supported by isolated
footings. The footing width and length shall be twice the width shown in this
table, and footings shall be spaced not more than six feet on center.
d. Spread footings shall have a minimum of 2 - #4 continuous horizontal
reinforcement bars.
e. Foundation walls shall have a minimum of #4 reinforcement bars 18 inches
on center in each direction.
f. Trench footings are allowed as a continuous eight-inch trench for single-
story wood frame structures with spans not exceeding 16 feet. The trench must
be at least 42 inches below finished grade and have at least two #4
horizontal reinforcement bars. Bars must tie into abutting adjacent
structure.
g. Footings shall be permitted to support a roof in addition to the
stipulated number of floors. Footings supporting a roof only shall be as
required for supporting one floor.”
 
   48.   Section 3109.1 General. Delete “International” and insert in lieu
thereof “Windsor Heights.”
155.04   RESIDENTIAL CODE.
The provisions of the International Residential Code for One-and Two-Family
Dwellings, 2024 Edition, as published by the International Code Council, except
for Part V - Mechanical, Part VI - Fuel Gas, Part VII - Plumbing, and Part VIII
- Electrical; and with the addition of Appendix Chapters BC, BF, and BO, are
hereby adopted by reference, subject to the following additions, modifications,
insertions, and deletions:
   1.   Section R101.1 Title. Delete existing text and insert: “These
regulations shall be known as the Windsor Heights Residential Code, hereinafter
referred to as “this Code”.”
   2.   Section R101.2 Scope. Delete existing text and insert: “The provisions
of this Code shall apply to the construction, alteration, movement,
enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location,
removal and demolition of the following:
      1.   Detached one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses not more than
three stories above grade plane in height with a separate means of egress and
their accessory structures not more than three stories above grade plane in
height.
      2.   Live/work units located in one- and two-family dwelling units that
comply with the requirements of Section 508.5 of the Windsor Heights Building
Code.
      3.   Owner-occupied lodging houses with five or fewer guestrooms.
      4.   A care facility with eight or fewer persons receiving custodial care
within a dwelling unit.
      5.   A care facility with eight or fewer persons receiving medical care
within a dwelling unit.
      6.   A daycare facility for eight or fewer persons of any age receiving
care within a dwelling unit.”
   3.   Section 104.2.2.7 Alternative materials, Design and Methods of
Construction and Equipment. Add Subsection 104.2.2.7: “104.2.2.7 Manufactured
Home Installation. The Iowa Administrative Code 481, Chapters 321 and 322 are
hereby adopted for installation of mobile (manufactured) homes.”
   4.   Section R105.2 Work exempt from Permit. Building Item #2. Delete
existing text.
   5.   Section R105.2 Work Exempt from Permit. Building Item #5. Delete
existing text and insert: “Sidewalks and driveways located entirely on private
property.
   6.   Section R106.1 Submittal Documents. Delete “in two or more sets, or in
a digital format where allowed by the Building Official,”
   7.   Section R106.3.1 Approval of Construction Documents. Delete this
section.
   8.   Table R301.2(1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria. Amend Table
301.2(1) to include the following values:
      Ground Snow Load:            33 PSF
      Wind Speed (mph):            115
      Topographic effects:         NO
      Special wind region:            NO
      Wind-borne debris zone:         NO
      Seismic Design Category:         A
      Weathering:               Severe
      Frost line depth:            42”
      Termite:               Moderate to Heavy
      Winter Design Temp:         0°F
      Ice Barrier Underlayment Required:   YES
      Flood Hazards:            As adopted in Chapter 185 of this Code.
      Air Freezing Index:            1800
      Mean Annual Temp:         48.6°F
      Elevation:               876 ft
      Altitude correction factor:         0.98
      Coincident wet bulb:         74°F
      Indoor winter design dry-bulb temp:   70°F
      Outdoor winter design dry-bulb temp:   -4°F
      Heating temperature difference:      74°F
      Latitude:               41°N
      Daily range:               M
      Indoor summer design relative humidity:   50%
      Indoor summer design dry-bulb temp:   75°F
      Outdoor summer design dry-bulb temp:   90°F
      Cooling temperature difference:      15°F
   9.   Section R309.1 Townhouse Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems. Add
Exception #2: “2. Townhouse structures that contain eight or fewer dwelling
units and in which the gross finished and unfinished floor area on all levels,
including basements and exclusive of attached garages, is less than 18,000
square feet.”
   10.   Section R309.2 One- and Two-Family Dwellings Automatic Fire Systems.
Add Exception #2: “2. Dwellings that do not exceed 8,000 square feet or more of
enclosed floor space on all levels, including basements and exclusive of
attached garages.”
   11.   Section R318.3.2 Floor Elevations at Other Exterior Doors, Exception.
Delete “two” and insert in lieu thereof “three”
   12.   Section R318.7.6 Landings for Stairways, Exception 3. Delete “two” and
insert in lieu thereof “three”
   13.   Section R325.2 Bathrooms. Delete existing text and insert: “Bathrooms,
water closet compartments, and other similar rooms shall be provided with
natural or artificial light and a mechanical ventilation system. The minimum
ventilation rates shall be 50 CFM for intermittent ventilation or 20 CFM for
continuous ventilation. Ventilation air from the space shall be exhausted
directly to the outside of the dwelling.
   14.   Section R328.1 General. Delete “International” and insert in lieu
thereof “Windsor Heights”.
   15.   Section R403.1 General. Add Exception: “Structures supported on wood
skids with an area no more than 240 square feet and an eave height no more than
eight feet.”
   16.   Section R403.1.1 Minimum Size. Add Subsection R403.1.1.1 and Table
R403.1.1.1: “R403.1.1.1 Conventional Light-Frame Wood Construction. Footings
supporting concrete foundations and buildings of conventional light-frame wood
construction shall be permitted to be designed in accordance with Table
R403.1.1.1.
Table R403.1.1.1 Prescriptive Footings Supporting Walls of Light-Frame
Construction a, b, c, d, e, f
Number of floors supported by Width of footing (in) Thickness of footing (in)
the footing g
Table R403.1.1.1 Prescriptive Footings Supporting Walls of Light-Frame
Construction a, b, c, d, e, f
Number of floors supported by Width of footing (in) Thickness of footing (in)
the footing g
1                             16                    8
2                             16                    8
3                             18                    12
a. Minimum 2,000 PSF soil bearing pressure. Soil bearing pressures less than
2,000 PSF shall use Tables R403.1(1) through R403.1(3) and Figure R403.1(1)
or R403.1.3, as applicable.
b. Depth of perimeter footings shall be at least 42 inches below final grade.
c. The ground under the floor shall be permitted to be excavated to the
elevation of the bottom of the footing.
d. Interior stud-bearing walls shall be permitted to be supported by isolated
footings. The footing width and length shall be twice the width shown in this
table, and footings shall be spaced not more than six feet on center.
e. Spread footings shall have a minimum of 2 - #4 continuous horizontal
reinforcement bars.
f. Trench footings are allowed as a continuous eight-inch trench for single-
story wood frame structures with spans not exceeding 16 feet. The trench must
be at least 42 inches below finished grade and have at least two #4
horizontal reinforcement bars. Bars must tie into abutting adjacent
structure.
g. Footings shall be permitted to support a roof in addition to the
stipulated number of floors. Footings supporting a roof only shall be as
required for supporting one floor.”
 
   17.   Section R403.1.4.1 Frost protection, Exception #1. Delete “600” and
insert in lieu thereof “1,000”.
   18.   Section R404.1.3.2 Reinforcement for foundation walls. Add Subsection
R404.1.3.2.3 and Table R404.1.3.2.3: “R404.1.3.2.3 Foundation walls for
conventional light-frame wood construction. Concrete and masonry foundation
walls supporting buildings of conventional light-frame wood construction shall
be permitted to be designed in accordance with Table R404.1.3.2.3.
Table R403.1.1.1 Prescriptive Foundation Walls Supporting Light-Frame
Construction a, b, c
Height of foundation Thickness of    Reinforcement size Reinforcement size and
wall d               foundation wall and placement in   placement in masonry
                                     concrete wall      wall j,k
Table R403.1.1.1 Prescriptive Foundation Walls Supporting Light-Frame Construction a, b, c
Height of  Thickness  Reinforcement
foundation of         size and      Reinforcement size and placement in masonry wall j,k
wall d     foundation placement in
           wall       concrete wall
Gross      Net e      Concrete f    Masonry  Horizontal                                                           Vertical
                                    g
=8’      =7’-8” 7.5”        8”     No. 4 bar within 12” of the top and bottom of the wall and at mid- No. 4 bar at 72” o.c. maximum 0.075 square inch bar at 96” o.c. vertically in cells fully grouted with
                                             height                                                                                               Type M or S grout
>8’      >7’-8” 8”          Refer to No. 4 bar at 24” o.c. maximum h                                    No. 4 bar at 20” o.c. maximum Refer to R404.1.2
                                    R404.1.2
a. Concrete floor slab to be nominal four inches thick. If such floor slab is not provided prior to backfill, one 36 inches vertical No. 4 bar shall be embedded in the footing at maximum 84 inches o.c. spacing or a full
depth nominal two inches depth by four inches width keyway shall be installed in the footing.
b. All reinforcement bars shall meet ASTM A6175 grade 40 minimum and be deformed. Placement of bars shall be three inches from the inside face of the wall and meet the provisions of Chapters 18, 19, and 21 of the
International Building Code.
c. Material used as backfill shall be carefully placed granular soil of average or high permeability and shall be drained with an approved drainage system as prescribed in Section 1805.4 of the International Building
Code. Where soils containing a high percentage of clay, fine silt, or similar materials of low permeability or expansive soils are encountered or where backfill materials are not drained or an unusually high surcharge is
to be placed adjacent to the wall, a specially designed wall shall be required.
d. Maximum foundation wall height is 10 feet gross and nine-foot eight-inch net.
e. Net foundation wall height measured from top of basement slab to top of foundation wall.
f. The thickness of concrete foundation walls supporting three floors shall be increased two inches.
g. The thickness of masonry foundation walls supporting three floors shall be increased four inches.
h. No. 5 bar at 24 inches o.c. maximum is an approved alternative.
i. No. 5 bar at 30 inches o.c. maximum is an approved alternative.
j. Mortar for masonry walls shall be Type M or S and masonry shall be laid in running bond.
k. If masonry block is 12 inches nominal thickness, wall may be unreinforced.”
 
   19.   Chapter 11 Energy Efficiency. Delete all sections except N1101.1.
   20.   Section N1101.1.1 Criteria. Add Subsection N1101.1.1: “N1101.1.1
Criteria. Buildings regulated by this Code shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the Windsor Heights Energy Conservation Code.”
   21.   Section BC101.2 Conditions. Delete Items #3, 5, and 7.
155.05   MECHANICAL CODE.
The provisions of the Iowa Administrative Code 481 - 426 with the addition of
Chapter 1, except Sections 101 and 102, of the International Mechanical Code,
2024 Edition, published by the International Code Council, are hereby adopted
by reference, subject to the following additions, modifications, insertions,
and deletions, and shall be known as the Windsor Heights Mechanical Code.
References to section numbers will be to sections in the International
Mechanical Code as adopted and amended by the State.
   1.   Section 101.1 Title. Delete existing text and insert: “These
regulations shall be known as the Windsor Heights Mechanical Code, hereinafter
referred to as “this Code.”
   2.   Section 103.1 Creation of Agency. Insert “Department of Building
Safety.”
   3.   Section 105.4.1 Approved Construction Documents. Delete this section.
   4.   Section 106.2 Retention of Construction Documents. Delete the final
sentence of this section.
   5.   Section 114.4 Violation Penalties. Delete existing text and insert:
“Any person who violates a provision of this Code or fails to comply with any
of the requirements thereof or who erects, installs, alters, or repairs work in
violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the Building
Official, or of a permit issued under the provisions of this Code, shall be
subject to penalties as prescribed by law.”
155.06   PLUMBING CODE.
The provisions of the Iowa Administrative Code 481 - 425 with the addition of
Chapter 1, except Sections 101 and 102, of the Uniform Plumbing Code, 2024
Edition, as published by the International Association of Plumbing and
Mechanical Officials, are hereby adopted by reference, subject to the following
additions, modifications, insertions, and deletions, and shall be known as the
Windsor Heights Plumbing Code. References to the Code sections will be to
sections of the Uniform Plumbing Code as adopted and amended by the State.
   1.   Section 104.4.1 Approved Plans or Construction Documents. Delete this
section.
   2.   Section 104.4.6 Retention of Plans. Delete the final sentence of this
section.
   3.   Section 104.5 Fees. Delete “and as set forth in the fee schedule, Table
104.5.”
   4.   Section 104.5.3 Fee Refunds. Delete existing text and insert: “The
Authority Having Jurisdiction is authorized to establish a refund policy.”
   5.   Section 105.2.6 Reinspections. Delete “To obtain reinspection, the
applicant shall file an application therefore in writing upon a form furnished
for that purpose and pay the reinspection fee in accordance with Table 104.5.”
155.07   ELECTRICAL CODE.
The provisions of the Iowa Administrative Code 481 - 404.3 are hereby adopted
by reference, subject to the following additions, modifications, insertions,
and deletions, and shall be known as the Windsor Heights Electrical Code:
   1.   Reserved.
155.08   ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE.
   The provisions of the International Energy Conservation Code as currently
adopted and amended by the Iowa State Building Code Bureau shall apply to all
matters governing the design and construction of buildings for energy
efficiency. Administration shall be as prescribed in the Windsor Heights
Building Code and these regulations shall be known as the Windsor Heights
Energy Conservation Code. Construction or work for which a permit is required
shall be subject to third party inspections. The Building Official is
authorized to accept reports of approved inspection agencies, provided such
agencies satisfy the requirements as to qualifications and reliability. Any
portion that does not comply shall be corrected and such portion shall not be
covered or concealed until authorized by the Building Official.
155.09   EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
The provisions of the International Existing Building Code, 2024 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council, are hereby adopted, subject to the
following additions, modifications, insertions, and deletions:
   1.   Section 101.1 Title. Delete existing text and insert: “These
regulations shall be known as the Windsor Heights Existing Building Code,
hereinafter referred to as “this Code”
   2.   Section 106.1 General. Delete “in two or more sets, or in a digital
format where allowed by the Code Official,”
   3.   Section 106.3.1 Approval of Construction Documents. Delete this
section.
   4.   Section 114.4 Failure to Comply. Delete existing text and insert: “Any
person who shall continue any work regulated by this Code after having been
served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to
perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to
penalties as prescribed by law.”
   5.   Section 302 General Provisions. Add Subsection 302.6: “302.6 Fire
Protection. Existing buildings containing R-2 Occupancies shall be made to
comply with the Local Fire Code Section 903.2.8 within two years of any of the
following situations:
   1.   Fire damage to three or more dwelling units, not including smoke or
water damage or other damage from firefighting operations.
   2.   Issuance of a Building Permit for a Level III alteration as identified
in Chapter 6 of the International Existing Building Code.
   6.   Section 303.2 Addition to a Group E Occupancy. Delete existing text and
insert: “Where an addition is added to an existing Group E Occupancy located in
an area where the shelter design wind speed for tornadoes is 250 MPH in
accordance with Figure 304.2 (1) of ICC 500, and the occupant load of the
addition is 50 or more, the addition shall have a storm shelter constructed in
accordance with Chapters 1 through 5 and 8 of ICC 500.
      Exceptions:
      Group E daycare facilities.
      Group E Occupancies accessory to place of religious worship.
      Additions meeting the requirements for shelter design in ICC 500.
      The aggregate area of all additions within a 10-year period shall be
factored when determining the requirements of this section.”
   7.   Section 303.2.1 Design Occupant Capacity. Delete existing text,
exceptions excepted, and insert in lieu thereof “The required design occupant
capacity of the storm shelter shall include all of the buildings on the site,
and shall be the greater of the total occupant load of the classrooms,
vocational rooms, and offices in the Group E Occupancy or the occupant load of
any indoor assembly space that is associated with the Group E Occupancy. If
multiple separate indoor assembly spaces are present, only the greatest indoor
assembly space occupant load must be included.”
155.10   SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE.
The provisions of the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2024 Edition,
as published by the International Code Council, are hereby adopted, subject to
the following additions, modifications, insertions, and deletions:
   1.   Section 101.1 Title. Delete existing text and insert: “These
regulations shall be known as the Windsor Heights Swimming Pool and Spa Code,
hereinafter known as “this Code”
   2.   Section 105.4.1 Approved Construction Documents. Delete this section.
   3.   Section 107.1 Construction Documents. Delete “in two or more sets”.
   4.   Section 107.2 Retention of Construction Documents. Delete the final
sentence of this section.
   5.   Section 113.4 Violation Penalties. Delete existing text and insert:
“Any person who shall violate a provision of this Code, or shall fail to comply
with any of the requirements thereof, or who shall erect, install, alter, or
repair a pool or spa in violation of the approved construction documents or
directive of the Code Official, or of a permit issued under the provisions of
this Code, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by law.”
   6.   Section 114.4 Failure to Comply. Delete the final sentence of this
section and insert in lieu thereof: “Any person who shall continue any work
regulated by this Code after having been served with a stop work order, except
such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
condition, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by law.”
   7.   Section 202 Pool. Delete existing text and inset: “Any structure
intended for swimming or recreational bathing that contains water more than 24
inches deep. This includes in-ground, above-ground, and on-ground swimming
pools, hot tubs, and spas.
155.11   ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
The International Fire Code (IFC), 2024 Edition, is hereby adopted by the
Council for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing the safeguarding
of life and property from fire and explosion hazards arising from the storage,
handling, and use of hazardous substances, materials, and devices, and from
conditions hazardous to life and property in the occupancy of buildings and
premises in the City; providing for the issuance of permits for hazardous use
or operations; that a certain document known as the International Fire Code,
including Appendix Chapters B, C, D, and I as published by the International
Fire Code Council, being particularly the 2024 Editions thereof and the whole
thereof, save and except those portions as are herein after deleted, modified,
or amended by Section 155.11, one copy of the local amendments which have been
and are now filed in the office of the Clerk and one complete set of the
International Fire Code, 2024 Edition, to include local amendments filed in the
fire administrative offices, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated
as fully set out at length herein, and from the date on which this chapter
shall take effect, the provision thereof shall be controlling within the limits
of the City.
   1.   Duties of Fire Department. The International Fire Code as adopted and
amended herein shall be enforced by the Fire Prevention Bureau of the City,
which is hereby established and which shall be operated under the supervision
of the Fire Chief.
   2.   Storage Of Flammables; Districts Established. Establishment of limits
and districts referred to and placed upon certain sections of the International
Fire Code, 2024 Edition, are as follows:
   The limits referred to in Section 5806.2, in which flammable cryogenic
fluids storage in stationary containers are prohibited, are hereby established
as follows: the entire City except LI – Limited Industrial District.
   The limits that are placed on Chapter 57 in which outside aboveground
storage of flammable or combustible liquids is restricted are hereby
established as follows: the entire City except as allowed as a principal,
accessory, or conditional use in the LI - Limited Industrial District.
Exceptions:
   An aggregate amount of 1,000 gallons or less may be stored above-ground on a
premises if used exclusively for heating fuel oil. A permit is required and the
proposed installation must be approved by the Code Official prior to the
issuance of a permit.
   Any new above-ground installations of Class I liquids shall have an
aggregate total of not more than 1,100 gallons; Class II liquids shall have an
aggregate total of not more than 5,000 gallons; and storage of more than 1,100
gallons shall be restricted to an approved vaulted tank above-ground where
allowed as a principal, accessory, or conditional use in the LI Zoning
District; or 10,000 gallons or less of Class I or Class II liquids on
construction sites, per legal lot or contiguous lots under common ownership. A
permit is required and the proposed installation must be approved by the Code
Official prior to the issuance of a permit.
   Any new outside installation of a generator shall be limited to a maximum of
1,500 gallons of Type II fuel in a NFPA/UL compliant sub-base tank; quantities
greater than 1,500 gallons, but less than 5,001 gallons of a Type II fuel shall
be stored in an approved vaulted tank. Exception: Fuel storage requirements for
generator use only shall not be limited to only in LI District.
   The limits that are placed on Chapter 57 in which new bulk plants and
terminals for flammable or combustible liquids are prohibited are hereby
established as follows: the entire City.
   The limits that are placed on Section 6104.2 (see Section 155.11 “Amendments
to International Fire Code,” of this chapter) in which storage of liquefied
petroleum gases is to be restricted are hereby established as follows: the
entire City.
   The limits that are placed on Section 5601.1 in which storage of explosives
and blasting agents is to be restricted are hereby established as follows: the
entire City.
   The limits that are placed on Section 5301.1 Exception 2, in which the
storage of compressed natural gas is prohibited, are hereby established as
follows: the entire City with the exception of LI District.
   3.   Amendments to International Fire Code. The International Fire Code is
amended and changed in the following respects.
   Chapter 1 Section 101.1. Insert in Section 101.1 “the City of Windsor
Heights.”
   Section 103.1.1. Add section 103.1.1 Definitions.
   Wherever the word “jurisdiction” is used in the International Fire Code, it
is the City of Windsor Heights, Iowa.
   Where the party responsible for the enforcement of the International Fire
Code is given a title of “Fire Marshal”, and the following definition: “Fire
Marshal is the Code Official of the Fire Prevention Bureau” or a duly
authorized representative.
   Whenever the words “Department of Fire Prevention” are used they shall be
held to mean “Fire Prevention Bureau.”
   The word “shall” is mandatory, and the word “may” is permissive.
   Section 113.4. Amend Section 113.4 Violation Penalties. Section 113.4 to
read as follows: Persons who shall violate a provision of this Code, or shall
fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof, or who shall erect,
install, alter, repair, or do work in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the Fire Code Official, or of a permit or certificate
used under the provisions of this Code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor crime
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500.00. Each day that a violation continues
after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
   Section 114.4. Amend Section 114.4 Failure to Comply. Section 114.4 to read
as follows: Any person who shall continue any work after having been served
with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform
to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine as
provided for in Section 155.11.10.
   Reinspection Fees. See the City Fee Schedule.
   Section 108.7 Mitigation Reimbursement Fees. Add Section 108.7 Mitigation
Reimbursement Fees. Reimbursement fees that are actual and necessary expenses
incurred in carrying out the mitigation of specialized emergencies including,
but not limited to, hazardous materials, specialized rescue, and crime scenes
(including arson) shall be invoiced to the responsible person, firm, or
corporation. An available fee schedule shall be reviewed and posted annually by
the Fire Chief’s office. Fees may include, but not be limited to, personnel
compensation, apparatus use, equipment use, and specialized contract labor
associated with the mitigation of the specialized emergency.
   Section 108.8 Negligent False Alarms. Add Section 108.8 Negligent False
Alarms. A negligent false alarm shall be determined by the Fire Chief, or
designee, as an alarm due to cleaning, construction, maintenance, repair, or
any other act determined to be negligent in nature. Negligence shall be further
defined as any activity where the life safety system shall be placed on test
prior to the activity being performed or any careless act causing an activation
of an alarm system. The fee schedule is defined in the City Fee Schedule.
   Section 108.9 Excessive False Alarms. Add Section 108.9 Excessive False
Alarms. Because a false alarm for security, intrusion, robbery, and other non-
fire causes usually requires from one to three police officers to respond in
individual vehicular units, depending on the type of alarm, and a false alarm
for fire suppression or other firefighting incidents usually requires multiple
firefighters from the Fire Department to respond in multiple and specialized
firefighting equipment, depending on the type of alarm, the City shall assess a
service charge fee to any alarm user that generates an unnecessary number of
false alarm responses during a calendar year as listed below (“false alarm
fee.”). The alarm user shall pay the City the assessed false alarm fee within
20 days of the date an invoice is given to the alarm user for any false alarm
created by the alarm user’s alarm system in accordance with the City Fee
Schedule.
   After the second false alarm, the alarm user shall receive a written notice
from the Fire Chief. The notice shall require that, by a specified date, the
alarm user shall have their alarm system inspected by an alarm company and
alarm user shall review operational procedures with the alarm system operator
and any other individuals having access to the use and operation of the alarm
system. Notice or billing from the City to any alarm user shall be deemed to
have been given or rendered on the date such notice or billing is deposited in
the U.S. mail, first class postage, addressed to the alarm user at the address
shown for the alarm user. The alarm user shall notify the applicable Fire
Chief, in writing, after the inspection by the alarm company has been completed
and shall provide to the Fire Chief a copy of any report of service, repair, or
inspection of the alarm system given by the alarm company. An alarm company
providing an inspection or repair of an alarm system shall notify the Fire
Chief in advance of such service. The alarm company shall be assessed a fee of
$100.00 by the City when the Police Department or Fire Department respond to a
false alarm and it is determined by the City that an on-site employee of the
alarm company directly caused the false alarm. In such a circumstance, the
false alarm shall not count against the alarm user.
   Section 116 Life Safety Plans. Add Section 116 Life Safety Plans. All life
safety plans submitted for review to include, but not limited to, fire
sprinkler system plans, fire alarm system plans, and clean agent system plans
shall be designed and stamped by a person with a minimum of a NICET III
Certification, fire protection engineer, qualified engineer with two years
demonstrated experience in life safety system design or equivalency as
determined by the Code Official. Plan approval will be based upon the plans
submitted by the equipment supplier utilizing the above requirements.
   Add Section 116.1. All Life Safety Plans submitted to the Windsor Heights
Fire Department will require a technical assistance review from a third-party
firm. Life Safety Plans submitted that currently bear the stamp of a licensed
Fire Protection Engineer shall be exempt from this requirement.
   Section 117 Inspection Tags. Add Section 117 Inspection Tags. Tags for
inspection of fire suppression systems, fire extinguishers, and fire alarm
systems are required to be purchased from the West Des Moines Fire Prevention
Bureau for use in the City as part of the West Metro licensing for fire
protection contractors.
   Chapter 2 Section 202 Definitions. Add to Section 202:
   Business is a commercial enterprise or establishment that is not part of a
home occupation, for the purpose of the Fire Code.
   Commercial buildings or structures are buildings that are used for purposes
other than detached dwellings, for the purpose of the Fire Code.
   Condominium is a building or structure of residential occupancies containing
sleeping units, or more than two dwelling units where the occupants are
primarily permanent in nature, having public space, unless defined as a
townhouse, for purpose of the Fire Code.
   Fire Prevention Bureau is the Fire Department of the jurisdiction.
   Home occupation is any occupation or profession conducted solely by the
resident occupants in their place of abode, involving primarily service and
limited sale of commodities upon the premises, for the purposes of the Fire
Code.
   Licensed daycare is a daycare that is licensed with the State.
   Licensed Fire Alarm Monitoring Service is a business that supplies or
contracts with a UL listed remote station monitoring service.
   WestCom is the 9-1-1 dispatch center that serves the City.
Amend Section 202. Amend the following definitions:
[M] Commercial cooking appliances are appliances used in a commercial food
service establishment for heating or cooking food, and which produce grease
laden vapors, steam, fumes, smoke, or odors that are required to be removed
through a local exhaust ventilation system. Such appliances include deep fat
fryers; upright broilers; griddles; broilers; steam-jacketed kettles; hot-top
ranges; under-fired broilers; (charbroilers); ovens; barbecues; rotisseries;
residential stoves or ovens and similar appliances. For the purposes of this
definition, a food service establishment shall include any commercial building,
or a portion thereof, used for the preparation and serving of food including
for employee purposes.
Dwelling is a detached building on a building site designed for and used
exclusively for residential purposes by one and two families and containing one
or two dwelling units, for the purpose of the Fire Code.
Dwelling unit is one room or rooms connected together and containing
independent cooking, sleeping, and bathroom facilities, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for one family, for owner
occupancy, or rental or lease to the same family for a time period of more than
31 consecutive days and physically separated from any other dwelling unit by a
wall or yard.
Chapter 3 General Precautions Against Fire.
Add Section 307.2.1.1 Responsible Agencies for Open Burning. Within the City
limits; in Polk County, approval from Polk County Water, Air, and Waste
Management Department and the Code Official; in Dallas County, approval from
State IDNR and the Code Official; future annexed land shall use the County
Water, Air, and Waste Management Department of record or IDNR and the Code
Official.
Amend Section 307.4.1: Bonfires are prohibited within the City.
Amend Section 307.4.2: Open, uncontained recreational burning is prohibited
within the City. Recreational Fires are permitted when they follow the
requirements of added Section 307.6.
Add Section 307.6: Outdoor Recreational Fires are permitted when they meet the
following requirements:
Contained in a fireplace or grill, defined by the following requirements:
Fireplace: A structure, with an open recess at the base or a chimney or stack,
with a grate for food preparation and provisions for under-fire air, for
holding an outdoor fire off the ground.
   Fuel shall consist of wood or charcoal only.
   Firewood shall be larger than two inches in diameter, and no longer than
three feet in length. This requirement shall not apply to wood used or needed
to start the fire (kindling).
   Device shall be no closer than 10 feet from any structure.
   Wood or charcoal within the device, shall not sit more than three feet above
the base of the device.
   Smoke shall not exit the user’s property at or below the user’s roof line.
   Shall not be used to dispose of yard waste, leaves, or twigs.
(2)   Grill. A cooking utensil with a grate for food preparation and provisions
for under-fire air, for holding an outdoor fire off the ground.
   Fuel shall consist of wood or charcoal only.
   Firewood shall be larger than two inches in diameter, and no longer than
three feet in length. This requirement shall not apply to wood used or needed
to start the fire (kindling).
   Device shall be no closer than 10 feet from any structure.
   Wood or charcoal within the device, shall not sit more than three feet above
the base of the device.
   Smoke shall not exit the user’s property at or below the user’s roof line.
   Shall not be used to dispose of yard waste, leaves, or twigs.
Add Section 308.1.11 Open Flame Cooking Devices. Replace with: No barbecue
grills or other devices which produce ashes or embers shall be operated or
stored within 20 feet of multi-story buildings such as apartment buildings and
condominiums. A maximum of one 20# propane cylinder attached to the cooking
device shall be allowed. Exception: One- and two-family dwellings and
townhomes. Cooking devices or the propane cylinders shall not be stored inside
the living unit of apartment buildings or condominiums.
Chapter 5 Fire Service Features.
Add Section 507.5.1.2 Hydrant for Fire Department Connections. Buildings
equipped with an automatic fire sprinkler system with Fire Department
connections installed per NFPA 13 shall have a fire hydrant within 100 feet of
the Fire Department connections.
Exception: The distance shall be permitted to exceed 100 feet where approved by
the Fire Code Official.
Chapter 9 Fire Protection Systems.
For the purposes of this section, “story” shall be defined as any level of a
structure, whether above or below grade capable of occupancy.
Open corridors or hallways shall be required to have fire sprinklers installed
in them when the building they are constructed in is required by this Code to
have a fire sprinkler system.
An approved complete automatic fire extinguishing system shall be installed on
all levels (including wood attics and wood cocklofts, but not wood attics and
wood cocklofts in one- and two-family dwellings) in all buildings and
structures erected from and after the effective date of the ordinance codified
by this chapter, in which the gross square floor area exceeds the amounts
specified in the following tables. An “approved automatic fire extinguishing
system” includes, but is not limited to, a complete automatic fire sprinkler
system. The following sections requiring complete automatic fire sprinkler
systems shall install the fire sprinkler system following NFPA 13 standards
unless otherwise noted. Alternative automatic extinguishing systems may be used
if, in the opinion of the Code Official the same life safety and property
conservation measures are equivalent to the NFPA standard listed in this Code.
Delete Sections 903.2.1, 903.2.1.1, 903.2.1.2, 903.2.1.3, 903.2.1.4, 903.2.1.5,
903.2.2, 903.2.3, 903.2.4, 903.2.5, 903.2.5.1, 903.2.5.2, 903.2.5.3, 903.2.6,
903.2.7, 903.2.8, 903.2.9, 903.2.9.1, 903.2.9.2.
Suppression Type
Add Section 903.2.1 Group A to Read as Follows: Group A: Or as Required by
903.2.1.7
Suppression Type
Add Section 903.2.1 Group A to Read as Follows: Group A: Or as Required by
903.2.1.7
        A-1. Building or structures, or portions thereof, having an
        assembly use, usually with fixed seating, intended for the
NFPA 13 production and viewing of the performing arts or motion
        pictures including, but not limited to: See IFC Occupancy
        Classification definition A-1
NFPA 13 1. Occupant load of 299 or less                             6,000 sq/ft
NFPA 13 2. Occupant load of 300 or more                             0
        A-2. Building or structures, or portions thereof, having an
        assembly use intended for food or drink consumption,         
        including, but not limited to: See IFC Occupancy
        Classification definition A-2
NFPA 13 1. Occupant load of 49 or less                              1,500 sq/ft
NFPA 13 2. Occupant load of 50 or more                              0 sq/ft
        A-3. Building or structures, or portions thereof, having an
        assembly use intended for worship, recreation, or amusement
        and other assembly uses not classified elsewhere in group    
        A, including, but not limited to: See IFC Occupancy
        Classification definition A-3
NFPA 13 1. Occupant load of 299 or less                             6,000 sq/ft
NFPA 13 2. Occupant load of 300 or more                             6,000 sq/ft
        A-4. Building or structures, or portions thereof, having an
        assembly 13 use intended for viewing of indoor sporting
        events and activities with spectator seating, including,     
        but not limited to: See IFC Occupancy Classification
        definition A-4
NFPA 13 1. Occupant load of 299 or less                             6,000 sq/ft
NFPA 13 2. Occupant load of 300 or more                             4,500 sq/ft
        A-5. Building or structures, or portions thereof, having an
        assembly use intended for participation in or viewing
NFPA 13 outdoor activities including, but not limited to: See IFC   1,000 sq/ft
        Occupancy Classification Definition A-5 and IFC Section
        903.2.1.5 for areas to be provided with protection.
 
 
Suppression Type
Add Section 903.2.2 Group B to Read as Follows: Group B: Or as Required by
903.2.2.1 or 903.2.2.2
        B. Building or structures, or portions thereof, used for
        office, professional, or service type transactions,
NFPA 13 including storage of records and accounts. Business       6,000 sq/ft
        occupancies shall include, but not be limited to: See IFC
        Occupancy Classification definition B.
 
 
Suppression Type
Add Section 903.2.3 Group E to Read as Follows: Group E:
NFPA Building or structures, or portions thereof, used by six or more persons  0
13   at any one time for educational purposes.                                 sq/
                                                                               ft
     A licensed daycare is any buildings or structures, or portions thereof,   0
NFPA used for educational, supervision, or personal care services for more     sq/
13   than five children older than 2 ½ years of age shall be classified as an ft
     E Occupancy.
 
 
Suppression Type
Add Section 903.2.4 Group F to Read as Follows: Group F: Or as Required by
903.2.4.1, 903.2.4.2, or 903.2.4.3
        F-1. Moderate-hazard factory and industrial occupancies
        including factory and industrial uses not classified as
NFPA 13 Group F Division 2 Occupancies, shall include but not be   2,500 sq/ft
        limited to: See IFC Occupancy Classification definition F-
        1.
        F-2. Low-hazard factory and industrial occupancy uses that
        involve the fabrication or manufacturing of noncombustible
NFPA 13 materials which during finishing, packing, or processing   15,000 sq/ft
        do not involve a significant fire hazard shall include but
        not be limited to: See IFC Occupancy Classification
        definition F-2.
 
 
Suppression Type
Add Section 903.2.5 Group H to Read as Follows: Group H
        H-1. Building or structures, or portions thereof, that pose a
NFPA 13 detonation hazard in excess of those listed in Table 5003.1.1   0 sq/ft
        (See 2015 IBC) shall include but not be limited to: See IFC
        Occupancy Classification definition H-1.
        H-3. Building or structures, or portions thereof, which contain
        materials that readily support combustion or pose physical
NFPA 13 hazard in excess of those listed in Table 5003.1.1 (See 2015    0 sq/ft
        IBC) shall include but not be limited to: See IFC Occupancy
        Classification definition H-3.
        H-4. Building or structures, or portions thereof, which contain
NFPA 13 materials that are health hazards in excess of those listed in  0 sq/ft
        Table 5003.1.1 (See 2015 IBC) shall include but not be limited
        to: See IFC Occupancy Classification definition H-4.
        H-5. Semiconductors fabrication facilities and comparable
        research and development areas in which production materials
        are used, and s.f. the aggregate quantity of material is in
NFPA 13 excess of those listed in Tables 5003.1.1 (See 2015 IBC). Such  0 sq/ft
        facilities and areas shall be designed and constructed in
        accordance with Section 415.10 of IBC.Design of the sprinkler
        system shall not be less than Table 903.2.5.2.
        FPA Pyroxylin Plastics. Buildings or structures, where
NFPA 13 cellulose nitrate film or pyroxylin plastics are manufactured,  0 sq/ft
        stored, or handled in quantities exceeding 100 pounds.
 
 
Suppression Type
Add Section 903.2.6 Group I to Read as Follows: Group I:
     I-1. Buildings or structures, or portions thereof, housing more than 16
NFPA persons, on a 24-hour basis, who, because of age, mental disability, or other
13D  reasons, live in a supervised residential environment but which provides      0
or   personal care services. The occupants are capable of responding to an         sq/
NFPA emergency situation without physical assistance from staff. A facility such   ft
13R  as the above with five or fewer persons shall be classified as Group R-3. A
     facility such as the above with at least six and not more than 16 persons
     shall be classified as Group R-4.
     I-2. Buildings or structures, or portions thereof, used for medical,
     surgical, psychiatric, nursing, or custodial care on a 24-hour basis of more
NFPA than five persons who are not capable of self-preservation. A facility such   0
13   as the above with five or fewer persons shall be classified as Group R-3.     sq/
     Childcare facility is any buildings or structures, or a portion thereof,      ft
     which provides care on a 24-hour basis to more than five children, 2 ½ years
     of age or less, shall be classified as Group I-2.
NFPA I-3. Buildings or structures, or portions thereof, which are inhabited by     0
13   more than five persons who are under restraint or security. See IFC Occupancy sq/
     Classification definition I-3 for type of condition.                          ft
     I-4. Buildings or structures, or portions thereof, which are occupied by
     persons of any age who receive custodial care for less than 24 hours by       0
NFPA individuals other than parents or guardians, relatives by blood, marriage, or sq/
13   adoption and in a place other than the home of the person cared for. A        ft
     facility such as the above with five or fewer persons shall be classified as
     Group R-3. Places of worship during religious functions are not included.
     Adult care facilities provide accommodations for less than 24 hours for more  0
NFPA than five unrelated adults and provide supervision and personal care          sq/
13   services. Childcare facilities provide supervision and personal care on less  ft
     than a 24-hour basis for more than five children 2 ½ years of age or less.
 
 
Suppression Type
Add Section 903.2.7 Group M to Read as Follows: Group M: Or as Required in
903.2.7.1, 903.2.7.2, or 903.2.7.3
        Buildings or structures, or portions thereof, for the
        display and sale of merchandise, and involving stocks of
NFPA 13 goods, wares, or merchandise, incidental to such purposes 6,000 sq/ft
        and accessible to the public shall include, but not be
        limited to: See IFC Occupancy Classification definition
        Group M. (High-piled storage to refer to Chapter 32 IFC)
 
Suppression Type
Add Section 903.2.8 Group R to Read as Follows: Group R:
Suppression Type
Add Section 903.2.8 Group R to Read as Follows: Group R:
NFPA 13R in 4 stories or less,  R-1. Hotels, motels, boarding
NFPA 13 in more than 4 stories, houses (transient). (Occupy    0 sq/ft
both systems to include attic   less than 30 days)
space as NFPA 13
NFPA 13R in 4 stories or less,  R-2. Apartment houses,
NFPA 13 in more than 4 stories, condominiums, boarding houses
both systems to include attic   (non-transient), convents,     0 sq/ft
space as NFPA 13                dormitories, fraternities, and
                                sororities, monasteries.
NFPA 13R to include attic space Convents, dormitories,
as NFPA 13                      fraternities, and sororities,  0 sq/ft
                                monasteries.
NFPA 13D                        R-3. Dwellings.                8,000/ sq. ft.
NFPA 13D                        R-3. Townhouse, 3 stories or   Per amended IRC
                                less.
Townhouses that are not open on at least two sides are required to install
fire sprinkler systems as set forth in the IFC, 2024 Edition.
                                R-4. Residential care or
                                assisted living facilities for
NFPA 13D or NFPA 13R            more than five, but not more   0 sq/ft
                                than 16 occupants, excluding
                                staff.
 
 
Suppression Type
Add Section 903.2.9 Group S to Read as Follows: Group S: Or as Required by
903.2.9.3 or 903.2.9.4
        S-1. Moderate hazard storage occupancies including
        building or portions of buildings used for storage of
NFPA 13 combustible materials not classified as Group S, Division 6,000 sq/ft
        2 or Group H Occupancies but not be limited to: See IFC
        Occupancy Classification definition Group S-1.
NFPA 13 NFPA Repair garages or service stations                   3,500 sq/ft
NFPA 13 Bulk storage of tires                                     20,000 cu ft
        S-2. Low-hazard storage occupancies, including buildings
NFPA 13 or portions of buildings, used for storage of             15,000 sq/ft
        noncombustible materials, but not be limited to: See IFC
        Occupancy Classification definition Group S-2
 
 
Suppression Type
Add Section 903.2.10.3 Group U to Read as Follows: Group U:
NFPA 13 Private garages, carports, sheds, and agricultural buildings N/A
 
   Add Section 903.3.1.4 Fire Sprinklers for Canopies. A canopy covering a door
that is required to be marked as an exit shall be required to have fire
sprinklers installed outside that door if the canopy extends more than four
feet out from the door and is 12 feet or less in height from the ground,
regardless if the canopy is combustible or noncombustible. All canopies,
regardless of height or construction type, that have vehicle access under them
with door openings shall be required to have fire sprinklers installed under
the entire canopy.
      Exception. If a building is not required by Code to have a fire sprinkler
system, Section 903.3.1.4 does not apply.
   Add Section 903.3.7.1 Fire Department Connection Identification. A minimum
of 110 candela weatherproof strobe light suitable for cold weather use with a
minimum of 75 candela at minus 30 degrees shall be tied into the building fire
alarm system and mounted directly above the Fire Department connection between
seven feet and 10 feet in height from the ground or as approved by the Code
Official.
   Add Section 903.7 Fire Sprinkler Riser Room. A fire sprinkler riser room
shall be separated from the electrical room. The riser room shall have no
electrical panels, devices, or apparatus inside the room other than the outlets
or support equipment (lighting) air compressor and heater required for the use
by the fire sprinkler system or the fire alarm panel. Access to the fire
sprinkler riser room shall not be accessed from the electrical room, but the
electrical room may be accessed from the fire sprinkler riser room.
   Add Section 903.7.1 Fire Sprinkler Riser Signage. Signage as determined by
the Code Official shall be placed on the main sprinkler riser denoting a shunt
trip has been installed.
Standpipe Systems.
   Add Section 905.3.8 Additional Standpipe Systems. Additional standpipe
systems may be added to new buildings or structures as deemed necessary by the
Code Official.
Portable Fire Extinguishers.
   Amend Table 906.3 (1) Fire Extinguishers for Class A Fire Hazards to read as
follows:
      Portable fire extinguishers for fire protection in low and moderate
hazard occupancies shall be five pounds ABC in buildings that are covered
throughout with a fire sprinkler system. If there is no fire sprinkler system
in low or moderate hazard occupancy, a 10-pound ABC fire extinguisher shall be
installed. Spacing is based on a 75-foot travel distance to the fire
extinguisher. Portable fire extinguishers for fire protection in high hazard
occupancies shall be 10-pound ABC in buildings that are covered throughout with
a fire sprinkler system. If there is no fire sprinkler system in a high hazard
occupancy, a 20-pound ABC fire extinguisher shall be installed. Spacing is
based on a 50-foot travel distance to the fire extinguisher.
   Amend Table 906.3(2) Fire Extinguishers for Flammable and Combustible
Liquids with Depths of Less Than or Equal to 0.25 in. to read as follows:
      Portable fire extinguishers for fire protection in low hazard occupancies
shall be five-pound ABC in buildings that are covered throughout with a fire
sprinkler system. If there is no fire sprinkler system in a low hazard
occupancy, a 10-pound ABC fire extinguisher shall be installed. Spacing is
based on a 50-foot travel distance to the fire extinguisher. Portable fire
extinguishers for fire protection in moderate hazard occupancies shall be 10-
pound ABC in buildings that are covered throughout with a fire sprinkler
system. If there is no fire sprinkler system in a moderate hazard occupancy, a
20-pound ABC fire extinguisher shall be installed. Spacing is based on a 50-
foot travel distance to the fire extinguisher. Portable fire extinguishers for
fire protection in high hazard occupancies shall be 20-pound ABC in buildings
that are covered throughout with a fire sprinkler system. If there is no fire
sprinkler system in a high hazard occupancy, a 20-pound ABC fire extinguisher
shall be installed. Spacing is based on a 50-foot travel distance to the fire
extinguisher with a fire sprinkler system, 30-foot travel distance with no fire
sprinkler system. Other hazardous occupancies will refer to NFPA 10.
Fire Alarm and Detection Systems.
   Add Section 907.1.4. Fire Alarm Control Panels.
   Each building shall have no more than one Fire Alarm Control Panel (FACP).
   Panel Height. Installation of the fire alarm panels shall not exceed six
feet in height measured from the floor to the top of the panel.
      Exception 1. Panel height may be altered by the Code Official.
      Exception 2. Suppression system releasing panels are not required to meet
limitation in the number of panels.
   Amend section 907.2 Where Required General to read as follows: An approved
addressable fire alarm system meeting provisions of this Code and NFPA 72 shall
be installed when the gross square footage of a building is equal to or greater
than the area as specified in Sections 903.2.1 through 903.2.11 inclusive,
subject to the authority having jurisdiction or by Section 907.2, whichever
shall be more restrictive.
      Exceptions:
      Buildings with eight or less initiating devices may use zoned systems
provided only one device is used per zone. Each device shall have a plain
English LCD (liquid crystal display). This alpha or numeric descriptor location
is required to be reported to the WestCom Dispatch Center upon activation of
the fire alarm system.
      R-3 dwellings are not required to meet Section 907.2 of this Code.
      Townhouses are required to be monitored only if a single fire sprinkler
system is used for multiple units.
   Add Section 907.2(a) Manual Fire Alarm Pull Boxes. Manual fire alarm pull
boxes, “pull stations,” shall be required where deemed necessary by the Code
Official.
   Add Section 907.2(b) Monitoring. All fire alarm systems shall be monitored
by a UL listed monitoring station.
   Add Section 907.2(c) Location. Each address point ID shall have an alpha or
numeric descriptor location for the fire alarm system. This alpha or numeric
descriptor location is required to be reported to the Fire Department dispatch
center upon activation of the fire alarm system.
   Add Section 907.2(d) Where Required. Where corridors or hallways are
protected by fire sprinkler systems, they shall also be protected by smoke
detection. Smoke detection shall be of the photoelectric type or as approved by
the Code Official.
   Amend Section 907.2.3 General to read as follows: Educational occupancies
shall have a monitored fire alarm system. Upon notification, existing
educational occupancies having existing fire alarm systems shall comply within
two years to meet the monitoring of the fire alarm system.
   Delete Sections 907.2.8 and 907.2.9.
   Add Section 907.2.8 Group R General. Group R-1 and Group R-2 apartment
houses, condominiums, and boarding houses (non-transient), convents,
dormitories, fraternities, sororities, and monasteries; and Group R-4 shall
have a monitored addressable fire alarm system. Upon adoption of this Fire
Code, Group R-1; Group R-2 apartment houses, condominiums, and boarding houses
(non-transient), convents, dormitories, fraternities, sororities, and
monasteries that have existing automatic fire alarm systems shall comply within
five years to have that fire alarm system monitored.
   Amend Section 907.2.11 Single and Multi-Station Smoke Alarms to read as
follows: Listed single- and multiple-station smoke alarms complying with UL 217
shall be installed in accordance with provisions of this Code and the household
fire warning equipment provision of NFPA 72. Smoke alarms shall be addressable
with sounder bases and tied into the building fire alarm system as a
supervisory signal only. Mini horns are not required if notification from a
building fire alarm system is through the smoke alarms with sounder bases.
   Note: Section 907.2.11 only applies to R-1, R-2, R-4, and I-1 occupancies.
   Add Section 907.6.4.3 Zone and Address Location Labeling. Fire alarm panels
shall have all zones and address points plainly and permanently labeled as to
their location on the outside of the panel or on an easily readable map of the
building, if no display screen is present.
   Amend Section 907.6.6 Monitoring General to read as follows: When required
by this chapter, or the Code Official, an approved UL listed remote station in
accordance with NFPA 72 shall monitor fire alarm systems to provide for the
immediate and automatic notification of the Fire Department.
   Exception. Supervisory service is not required in one- and two-family
dwellings.
   Add Section 910.1 Exception 1. The Code Official may require smoke removal
equipment be installed if it is deemed necessary by the Code Official for the
protection of life and property.
   Add Section 912.1.1 Fire Department Connection Height. The Fire Department
connection shall be located not less than 18 inches from the bottom of the caps
and not more than three feet from the top of the caps above the level of the
adjacent grade or access level. The Code Official, for just cause, may grant
deviation to this height.
   Amend Section 912.4 Access around Fire Department Connections to read as
follows: Immediate access to Fire Department connections shall be maintained at
all times and without obstruction by fences, bushes, trees, walls, or any other
objects for a minimum of a five-foot clear space on each side of the connection
to include in front of and above the connection.
Section 1009 Accessible Means of Egress.
   Add to Section 1009.2 Continuity and Components Item #11.
      11. Components of exterior walking surfaces shall be concrete, asphalt,
or other approved hard surface.
Section 1013 Exit Signs.
   Add Section 1013.1.1 Additional Exit Signs. Exit signs may be required at
the discretion of the Code Official to clarify an exit or exit access.
Chapter 33 Fire Safety During Construction and Demolition.
   Amend Section 3307.1 Required Access. Construction sites shall have approved
access roads as noted on the approved site plan to all areas of building or
structure being constructed prior to actual construction taking place. Access
roads to buildings or structures shall be constructed to provide vehicular
access to within 50 feet of the building or structure with the middle of the
building or structure no further than 150 feet from the access road. If the
middle of the building or structure is more than 150 feet from the access road,
temporary access roads shall be constructed around the building or structure
where topography allows. It is highly recommended to install parking lots, if
planned for, prior to the beginning of construction, for storage of
construction material and easier access to the site. Access road surface
material shall be of aggregate or a base layer of asphalt capable of meeting
load limits under all weather conditions as outlined in Appendix D § D 102 of
this Code for fire apparatus imposed loads unless otherwise approved by the
Code Official. Vehicle access shall be maintained until permanent Fire
Apparatus Access Roads are available.
   Add Section 3312.2 Temporary Fire Department Connections. Where an automatic
sprinkler system is being installed in a building under construction, temporary
dry connections shall be made to a Fire Department connection as areas of the
system are completed when combustible materials are being used for
construction.
   Add Section 3312.2.1 Temporary Fire Department Connection Identification.
Where a temporary Fire Department connection is provided, temporary
weatherproof signage shall also be provided to indicate what areas of the
building under construction are served by the Fire Department connection.
Chapter 41 Temporary Heating and Cooking Operations.
   Amend Section 4104.2 Open Flame Cooking Devices. Refer to Local Amendment
308.1.11
Chapter 50 Hazardous Materials - General Provisions.
   Add Section 5003.14 Hazardous Substances, Notification, and Cleanup.
   Scope. This section shall apply to the release of hazardous substances and
the notification, cleanup, and recovery of costs associated with the mitigation
of hazardous conditions.
   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, these words have the following
meaning:
      “Cleanup” means the removal of the hazardous substances to a place where
the waste will not cause any danger to persons or the environment, in
accordance with the State statutes, rules, and regulations therefore, or the
treatment of the material, as defined herein, to eliminate the hazardous
condition, including the restoration of the area to a general good appearance
without noticeable odor as far as practicable. “Cleanup” includes all actions
necessary to contain, collect, identify, analyze, treat, disperse, remove, or
dispose of a hazardous substance and to restore the sites from which the
hazardous substance was cleaned up.
      “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual, imminent,
or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance:
         Within the City or onto City property located outside the City which,
because of the quantity, strength, and toxicity of the hazardous substance, its
mobility in the environment and its persistence, creates an immediate potential
danger to the public health or safety; or
         Onto land, into the waters within the State, or into the atmosphere,
but outside the City, which, because of the quantity, strength, and toxicity of
the hazardous substance, its mobility in the environment and its persistence,
creates an immediate potential danger to the public health or safety of persons
or property within the City.
         Hazardous conditions include any accident involving hazardous
materials required to be reported under Section 321.266 (4) of the Code of
Iowa.
      “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substance that
presents a danger to the public health or safety or environment and includes,
but is not limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or
that is an irritant or that, in confinement, generates pressure through
decomposition, heat, or other means. The following are examples of substances
which, in sufficient quantity, may be hazardous: acids; alkalis; explosives;
fertilizers; heavy metals such as chromium, arsenic, mercury, lead and cadmium;
industrial chemicals; paint thinners; paints; pesticides; petroleum products;
poisons; radioactive materials; sludges; and organic solvents. “Hazardous
substance” includes any hazardous waste identified or listed by the
Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency under the
Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery
Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under §307 of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act of 1976, as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated under §311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as
amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous materials designated by the
Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act,
or any hazardous substance listed under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980.
      “Person” is a natural person, their heirs, executors, administrators, or
assigns, and also includes a firm, partnership, or corporation, or their
successors or assigns, or any other similar legal entity or the agent of any of
the aforesaid.
      “Responsible person” means the person, whether the owner, agent, lessor,
or tenant, in charge of the hazardous substance being stored, processed, or
handled, or the owner or bailee transporting hazardous wastes or substances
whether on public ways or grounds or on private property where the spill would
cause danger to the public or to any persons or to the environment.
      “Treatment” means a method, technique, or process, including
neutralization, designed to change the physical, chemical, or biological
character or composition of a hazardous substance so as to neutralize it or to
render the substance non-hazardous, safer for transport, amenable for recovery,
amenable for storage, or to reduce it in volume.
      Treatment includes any activity or processing designed to change the
physical form or chemical composition of hazardous substance to render it
nonhazardous.
   Notifications. When a hazardous condition is created, the responsible person
shall notify WestCom 911 Dispatch Center and the Fire Department immediately
upon discovery of the condition, but in no instance later than 30 minutes after
the discovery of the hazardous condition.
   Cleanup Required. Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of a hazardous substance, so
that the hazardous substance, or a constituent of the hazardous substance, may
enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters,
including groundwaters, the Fire Chief, or the Chief’s designee, may remove or
provide for removal and the disposal of the hazardous substance at any time,
unless the Fire Chief, or the Chief’s designee, determines the removal will be
properly and promptly accomplished by the responsible person. If the
responsible party does not initiate and complete cleanup within the time
designated by the Fire Department, the City may proceed to remedy the hazardous
condition by performing the necessary cleanup services.
   Loss, Burden, or Costs. A responsible person shall be liable to the City for
all mitigation costs incurred by the City or other contract agencies,
including, but not limited to, chemical damage, contamination of equipment, and
the use of consumable materials. If charges for cleanup costs are not paid
within 30 days after invoice, the City shall proceed to obtain payment by all
legal means.
Chapter 56 Explosives And Fireworks.
   Amend Section 5601.1 Scope to read as follows:
      Add (a) the City deems the use of first-class and second-class consumer
fireworks as a threat to public safety or a nuisance to landowners or persons
with certain health conditions and therefore prohibits the use of first-class
and second-class consumer fireworks in the City, except for on July 3, July 4,
and December 31 in accordance with Section 727.2(4) of the Code of Iowa. It
shall otherwise be unlawful, without a permit, for any person to offer for
sale, expose for sale, sell at retail, or use or explode any explosives,
explosive materials, first-class and second-class consumer fireworks within the
corporate limits of the City of Windsor Heights.
   Add Exception 10. Items considered as “Novelties” under State law.
   Amend Section 5601.2.4 Financial Responsibility to read as follows: The
applicant shall, at the time they makes their application for a permit, attach
thereto a bond or Certificate of Insurance naming the applicant and the City as
insured, in the sum of not less than $1,000,000.00, provided that the Code
Official or the Council may, at their discretion, require a greater amount. The
bond and insurance shall insure to the use and benefit of the City or any
person who suffers damage either to person or property by reason of the display
of fireworks.
   Add Section 5601.4.1 Persons in charge of fireworks display or pyrotechnic
special effect operations shall possess a valid PGI display fireworks operator
certification or equivalent certification approved by the Code Official.
   Amend Section 5605.1 Manufacture, Assembly, and Testing of Explosives,
Explosive Materials, and Fireworks to read as follows:
      General: It shall be unlawful to manufacture, assemble, and test
explosives, explosive materials, and fireworks within the corporate limits of
the City.
      Exceptions.
         The hand loading of small arms ammunition prepared for personal use
and not offered for sale;
         The mixing and loading of blasting agents at blasting sites in
accordance with NFPA 495.
         The use of binary explosives or plosophoric materials in blasting or
pyrotechnic special effects applications in accordance with NFPA 495 or NFPA
1126.
Chapter 57 Flammable and Combustible Liquids.
   Add Section 5704.2.9.7.10 Alternative Containment and Protection. All tanks
that have a secondary tank of steel, concrete, or approved materials shall be
capable of holding 110 percent of the product stored. A non-combustible roof
and roof framework shall cover all open top secondary tanks exposed to weather.
Chapter 61 Liquified Petroleum Gases.
   Amend Section 6104.2 Maximum Capacity within Established Limits to read as
follows: Within the limits established by law in the adopting ordinance
restricting the storage of liquefied petroleum gas for the protection of
heavily populated or congested areas, the aggregate capacity of any one
installation shall not exceed a water capacity of 1,000 gallons. Within the
limits established by law in the adopting ordinance restricting the storage of
liquefied petroleum gas for the protection of LI - Limited Industrial District,
the aggregate capacity of any one installation shall not exceed a water
capacity of 5,000 gallons.
Referenced Standards
Referenced Standards
NFPA 10   2022 Edition
NFPA 13   2022 Edition
NFPA 13D  2022 Edition
NFPA 13R  2022 Edition
NFPA 20   2022 Edition
NFPA 30   2024 Edition
NFPA 30A  2024 Edition
NFPA 58   2024 Edition
NFPA 70   2023 Edition
NFPA 72   2022 Edition
NFPA 96   2024 Edition
NFPA 101  2024 Edition
NFPA 1123 2022 Edition
NFPA 1124 2006 Edition for 5601.1.3, all others 2022 Edition
NFPA 2001 2022 Edition
 
Appendix D. Fire Apparatus Access Roads.
   Amend Section D101.1 Scope to read as follows: Fire apparatus access roads
shall be in accordance with this appendix and all other applicable requirements
of the International Fire Code.
   Public streets are regulated using the Statewide Urban Design and
Specifications for public improvements as amended by the City. Private streets
are regulated using the Statewide Urban Design and Specifications for public
improvements as amended by the City.
Section D103 Minimum Specifications.
   Amend D103.2 Grade. Fire apparatus access roads shall not exceed Statewide
Urban Design and Specifications for public improvements as amended by the City.
   Amend D103.3 Turning Radius. The minimum turning radii shall be determined
by the Code Official.
   Amend D103.4 Dead-Ends. Replace with: Dead-end fire apparatus access roads
shall not exceed Statewide Urban Design and Specifications for public
improvements or as approved by City Engineer.
   Amend D103.5 Fire Apparatus Access Road Gates. Replace with: Gates securing
fire apparatus access roads shall comply with all of the following criteria:
      The minimum gate width shall accommodate a 14-foot clear drive lane
width.
      Gates shall be of the swinging or sliding type;
      Construction of the gate shall be of materials that allow for manual
operation by one person;
      Gate components shall be maintained in an operative condition at all
times and replaced or repaired when defective;
   Electric gates shall be equipped with a means of opening the gate by Fire
Department personnel for emergency access. Emergency opening devices shall be
approved by the Code Official;
      Manual opening gates shall not be locked with a padlock or chain unless
they are capable of being opened by means of forcible entry tools; and
      Locking device specifications shall be submitted for approval by the Code
Official.
   Amend D103.6 Signs. Replace with: Where required by the Code Official, fire
apparatus access roads shall conform to Section 511.4. Signs shall be posted on
one or both sides of the fire apparatus road as required by §D103.6.1 or
D103.6.2.
   Amend D103.6.1 Roads 20 to 26 feet in width to read as follows: Fire
apparatus access roads 20 to 26 feet wide shall be posted on both sides as a
fire lane when required by the Code Official.
   Amend D103.6.2 Roads more than 26 feet in width to read as follows: Fire
apparatus access roads more than 26 feet wide shall be posted on one side of
the road as a fire lane when required by the Code Official.
   Amend Section D104 Commercial and Industrial Developments.
   Amend D104.1 Access. All buildings shall have, at a minimum, two fire
apparatus accesses as approved by the Code Official. Based on the building
occupancy hazard, the Code Official may require more than two fire apparatus
accesses. The Code Official may reduce this requirement for just cause as long
as safety to the buildings or occupants is not jeopardized.
   Amend D104.3 Remoteness. Where two access roads are required, they shall be
placed a distance apart equal to not less than one-half the length of the
maximum overall diagonal dimension of the property or area to be served,
measured in a straight line between accesses. The Code Official may reduce the
separation distance between accesses for just cause as long as safety to the
buildings or occupants is not jeopardized.
   4.   Liability for Damages.
      This Code is enacted only for the purpose of securing to individuals the
enjoyment of rights and privileges to which they are entitled as members of the
public, rather than for the purpose of protecting any individual from harm.
      The City, its officers, employees, or agents make no representations or
warranties of any kind whatsoever, expressed or implied, with respect to the
completeness or thoroughness of the inspections and examinations performed
under this Code, but the inspections are made solely to assist the owner of the
building, structure, equipment, and premises to meet certain minimum
requirements of this Code and to compel, if necessary, the owner to meet the
minimum requirements for the protection of the health, welfare, and safety of
persons and property. Nothing herein contained in this Code shall alleviate the
owner of any building, structure, equipment, and premises to make an
independent inspection in order to fulfill the requirements of this Code nor
shall this Code be construed to relieve or lessen the responsibility of any
person owning, operating, or controlling any building, structure, equipment, or
premises regulated herein from any damages to any person or property caused by
defects or Code violations. The City, its officers, employees, or agents shall
not be held as assuming any liability for damages to any person or property by
reason of any inspections authorized by this Code or investigations, or any
approvals issued herein, or for any act or failure to act in the enforcement of
this Code.
   5.   Outstanding Permits. If a Building Permit is outstanding on the
effective date of this chapter and the Fire Code adopted hereby, the provisions
of this chapter, and the Fire Code adopted hereby, shall apply to the work
authorized by such permit, except to the extent that the Fire Chief and
Building Official shall determine that the application of such provisions to
such work would be unreasonable. The burden shall be upon the holder of such
permit to show the unreasonableness of such provisions.
   6.   Indemnity. The applicant for any permit under the Fire Code, by making
application, assumes and agrees to pay all loss or damage to property
whatsoever, and injury to or death of any person or persons whomsoever,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising from or in
connection with or related to the issuance of such permit or the doing of
anything thereunder, or the failure of such applicant, or the agents,
employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by or comply with any of the
provisions of this Fire Code or any other ordinance of the City; and such
applicant by making such application, forever indemnifies the City, its
officers, and employees, and agrees to save it and them harmless from any and
all claims, demands, lawsuits, or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage,
injury, or death, costs and expenses, by reason of the foregoing even though
acts or omissions of the City, its officers, or employees, may have caused or
contributed thereto. The foregoing provisions shall be deemed to be a part of
the permit issued under the Fire Code whether or not expressly recited therein.
   7.   Repeal of Conflicting Standards. In any case where the provisions of
this chapter, or the Fire Code adopted hereby, are found to be in conflict with
any provision of Code of Iowa or regulations of the State Fire Marshal, or any
provision of any zoning, building, fire, electrical, plumbing, mechanical,
safety, or health ordinance or Code of the City, the provision which
establishes the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the safety
of persons and property shall prevail.
   8.   Violations; Penalties. Unless otherwise provided by law, violations of
this chapter are simple misdemeanors and are punishable by a fine not to exceed
$500.00. Pursuant to Section 100.41 of the Code of Iowa, the officials of the
Fire Prevention Bureau shall have the authority to issue citations for
violations of this chapter or report the violation to the Police Department for
citation. Violations of this chapter are also declared to be municipal
infractions and may be punished as provided in Chapter 3. Officials of the Fire
Prevention Bureau shall have the discretion to enforce this chapter either as a
municipal infraction or a simple misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 156
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE AND RENTAL HOUSING CODE
 
156.01 Short Title                      156.04 Amendments, Modifications,
                                        Additions, and Deletions
156.02 Adoption of Property Maintenance
Code
156.03 Conflicts
 
156.01   SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Windsor Heights Property Maintenance and
Rental Housing Code, and may be cited as such, and may be referred to herein as
this chapter.
156.02   ADOPTION OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2021 Edition, published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is adopted in full except for such portions
as may be hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended. A copy of the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2021 Edition, as adopted, and a copy
of this chapter are on file in the office of the Code Official.
156.03   CONFLICTS.
   In the event requirements of this code conflict with applicable State and
federal requirements, the more stringent shall apply.
156.04   AMENDMENTS, MODIFICATIONS, ADDITIONS, AND DELETIONS.
The International Property Maintenance Code, 2021 Edition, (hereinafter known
as the IPMC), is amended as follows:
   1.   Deletion. The following section is deleted from the IPMC and is of no
force or effect in this chapter:
      107 - Means of Appeal
   2.   Subsection 101.1, Title, of the IPMC is hereby deleted and there is
enacted in lieu thereof the following subsection:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance
and Housing Code of the City, hereinafter known as “this Code.”
   3.   Subsection 102.3, Application of Other Codes, of the IPMC is hereby
amended by deleting said subsection and inserting in lieu thereof the
following:
      102.3 Application of Other Codes. Repairs, additions, or alterations to a
structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions, as applicable, of the Windsor Heights Building Code,
Windsor Heights Energy Conservation Code, Windsor Heights Existing Building
Code, Windsor Heights Fire Code, Windsor Heights Fuel Gas Code, Windsor Heights
Electrical Code, Windsor Heights Mechanical Code, Windsor Heights Residential
Code, Windsor Heights Plumbing Code, and the Windsor Heights Zoning Code.
   4.   Subsection 102.12, Rental Housing Code, is hereby established by adding
the following provisions:
      102.12 Rental Housing Code. In addition to provisions of the Property
Maintenance Code of the City, this subsection shall be hereafter known as the
City Rental Housing Code and may be cited as such and will be referred to as
such in this subsection.
      102.12.1 Adoption of Housing Code. In accordance with the requirements of
Section 364.17 of the Code of Iowa, the City hereby adopts the Uniform Housing
Code, 1997 Edition, published by the International Conference of Building
Officials and the Recommended Minimum Housing Standards, 1986 Edition, as
published by the American Public Health Association. In instances where there
is conflict between the Uniform Housing Code, 1997 Edition, and the Recommended
Minimum Housing Standards, 1986 Edition, as adopted herein, the most
restrictive provision will apply.
      102.12.2 Scope. The provisions of this subsection shall be deemed to
apply to all dwellings, or portions thereof, used or designed, or intended to
be used, for human habitation. All occupancies in existing buildings may be
continued as provided in previously adopted Building Codes except such
structures as are found to be substandard as defined in this Code. Where any
building, or portion thereof, is used or intended to be used as a combination
apartment house-hotel, the provisions of this Code shall apply to the separate
portions as if they were separate buildings. Every rooming house or lodging
house shall comply with all of the requirements of this Code applicable to
dwellings. However, this subsection does not apply to single-family dwellings
occupied by the owner, as defined in Section 167.04, unless the owner is
operating a rooming house.
      102.11.23 Rent Abatement. The City may order rent abated when the
building official, or its designee, determines the owner has, after issuance of
a notice of violation of this chapter:
         (1)   Failed to provide an essential service (water, sewer,
electricity, heat);
         (2)   Failed to remedy a condition that poses a substantial risk to
the safety of the tenant; or
         (3)   Rented a dwelling unit without a Rental Certificate.
      Rent abatement means no rent shall be recoverable by the owner or lessee
of the dwelling from the tenant. Rent shall be abated until the condition for
which rent abatement was ordered has been remedied. The Building Official, or
its designee, shall provide a copy of the rent abatement order to the owner at
the address on the Rental Certificate and to the tenant by U.S. mail and by
posting the order on the entrance door to the dwelling unit. Notice of
termination of the rent abatement order will be given in the same manner.
      102.12.3 Purpose. The purpose of this Code is to ensure that rental
housing facilities and conditions are of sufficient quality to protect and
promote the health, safety, and welfare of those persons utilizing such housing
and also the general public.
      102.12.4 Definitions. For use in this subsection, the following items are
defined:
         Rental Apartment House or Building. Any building, or portion thereof,
which is designed, rented, leased, or hired out to be occupied, or which is
occupied as the home or residence of two or more families living independently
of each other and doing their own cooking in the said building, and includes
flats and apartments.
         Rental Dwelling. Any house, building, or portion thereof, which is
occupied, in whole or part, as a home or residence of one or more tenants, on a
rental basis, or when, in return for housing, a tenant agrees to occupy and
maintain the premises and pay utilities. No part of a building hereafter
constructed or altered into a dwelling as described may be occupied, in whole
or in part, for human habitation until the issuance of a Rental Certificate by
the City that such part of the dwelling conforms to Code requirements. A
dwelling unit that is being rented for a period of 90 days or less in a single
calendar year or a portion of such dwelling unit shall be exempt from this
chapter.
         Rental Dwelling Unit. One or more habitable rooms in a dwelling,
apartment house, rooming house, lodging house, or building which are occupied
or which are intended or designed to be occupied by one family with facilities
for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
         Rental Certificate. A certificate issued within 14 days after
successful completion of a rental inspection. Such a certificate shall
thereafter be known as a Rental Certificate.
         Tenant.
            (i)   A person occupying a dwelling unit who pays (or has payments
made on their behalf) a stated payment at fixed intervals for the use of the
dwelling unit; or
            (ii)   A person occupying a dwelling unit owned by another
individual, who, in return for housing, agrees to occupy and maintain the
premises and pay utilities.
         Rooming House. A building offered or occupied for lodging, with or
without meals, and not occupied as a one- or two-family dwelling.
   102.12.5 Housing Inspector. The Council may designate, by resolution,
representatives or designees as housing inspectors, or the Council may, by
resolution, approve certain qualified firms or persons who by training or
experience are familiar with the provisions of this Code to perform inspections
of rental apartment houses, buildings, or dwelling units in the City, to ensure
their compliance with this Code. The inspectors appointed under the provisions
of this subsection shall be charged with the responsibility of performing
inspections of rental dwelling units in the City only but shall not be charged
with the duty of enforcing the provisions of this Code. The City Administrator
shall identify the appropriate person responsible for the enforcement of this
Code and such person may also make any inspections required under the
provisions of this subsection.
   102.12.6 Regular inspections and Rental Certificate Duration.
   The City will contact the property owner to notify them of the necessary
steps to renew their Rental Certificate. If after reasonable attempts have been
made and the property owner is not reachable or fails to respond to notices or
other attempts to contact them, the City will contact the tenant to outline the
steps necessary for Rental Certificate renewal. Should it become necessary to
contact a tenant to facilitate renewal required under this section, the City
shall be entitled to collect additional fees from the property owner to
compensate the City for the additional cost associated with this alternative
inspection method.
   Upon the first inspection of a rental property, if no violations are
documented by the Building Inspector, a valid Rental Certificate shall be
issued for a 24-month period. If on the first inspection, violations are
documented, the Building Inspector shall have the discretion to limit the
rental license duration to 12 months. The duration of a limited Rental
Certificate shall be dependent on the number of violations, property history,
or landlord history.
   102.12.8 Applications for Rental Certificate. Every person who offers for
rent, a rental apartment house or building, rental dwelling, or rental dwelling
unit in the City shall submit to the City, on forms provided, an application
requesting a Rental Certificate. Such application shall be accompanied by an
application fee in the amount established in the current Fee Schedule. Upon
receipt of such application, the City shall facilitate an inspection of the
premises and, if the same complies with the provisions of this chapter, issue a
Rental Certificate. If the premises fail to comply, the Inspector shall notify
the applicant in writing, stating the reasons for such noncompliance.
   102.12.8.1 Assessment of Costs.
   The City may charge the owner of real property a late payment fee of $25.00
and may add interest up to one and one-half percent per month if costs imposed
under this section are not paid within 30 days of the date due.
   The City shall send a notice of the late payment costs to such owner by
first class mail to the owner’s personal or business mailing address. The late
payment fee and interest shall not accrue if such owner files an appeal with
the City.
   Any owner objecting to the collection of costs by assessment may file a
written request for a hearing before the City Administrator. The appeal shall
be filed within 10 days from the date of the notice of late payment. An
untimely appeal shall not be accepted unless, in the discretion of the City
Administrator, good cause is shown for the untimely filing.
   The City Administrator shall notify the appellant of the date, time, and
location of the hearing.
   Any unpaid costs and interest shall constitute a lien on the real property
and may be collected in the same manner as a property tax. Before a lien is
filed, the City shall send a notice of intent to file a lien to the owner of
the real property by first class mail to such owner’s personal or business
mailing address. Prior to filing a property lien, the City may use other means
to recover payment, including, but not limited to, the use of professional
collection services and the income offset program through the State.
   102.12.9 Additional Inspections. In addition to the inspections required
under Subsection 102.12.8, inspectors are also empowered to make similar
inspections of all rental dwelling units as frequently as may be necessary and
may make inspection at any reasonable time on a written complaint submitted by
the owner, tenant, or other person concerned.
   102.12.10 Inspection Fees for Additional Inspections.
   When an inspection is made at the request of the owner, the owner will be
responsible for associated inspection fees in accordance with the Fee Schedule.
If an inspection is made at the written request of a tenant and the dwelling
unit is found to be in noncompliance due to an omission of the owner, such
owner shall be responsible for associated inspection fees. No inspection shall
be conducted at the request of a tenant unless the tenant has first submitted
the complaint in writing to the landlord no less than seven days before making
such complaint to the City. If, after a written complaint by the tenant, the
dwelling is found to comply or if such noncompliance is due to conduct on the
part of the tenant, the tenant shall be liable for the cost of such inspection.
If such costs are not paid by the tenant within 30 days after the date of
billing, the City may initiate an action at law or in equity to recover the
same in which event the tenant shall be liable for reasonable attorney fees. No
fee shall be charged to the owner for inspections where the dwelling is found
in compliance or noncompliance is due to conduct on the part of the tenant.
   In the event an inspection is initiated by the City or at the written
request of a person other than the owner or tenant, and if the dwelling unit is
found to be in noncompliance, the owner shall be liable for associated
inspection fees No inspection shall be conducted at the request of a person
other than the owner or tenant unless that person has first submitted the
complaint in writing to the landlord no less than seven days before making such
complaint to the City. In the event that, on the date of the inspection, the
dwelling unit complies with the provisions of the Housing Code, no fee shall be
charged. In the event that, on the date of inspection, a dwelling unit fails to
comply with the provisions of the Housing Code, which necessitates additional
inspections, the owner shall be liable for the costs associated with re-
inspection.
   All fees required under this Code shall be paid prior to the issuance or
renewal of the Rental Certificate.
   102.12.11 Entrance and Survey of Buildings. Any such person authorized and
acting on behalf of the City for the purposes of inspections may, without fee
except as provided in Section 102.12.8, enter, examine, make necessary records,
and survey all properties defined under this section within the City. If entry
into the interior portion of a property defined in this section is required, 72
hours’ notice shall be given by the inspector to the owner and tenant. The
owner, owner’s agent or representative, and the lessee and occupant of every
property, and every person having the care and management of the same shall, at
all reasonable times when required by such officers or persons, give them free
access to such property and premises. The owner and said owner’s agents and
employees shall have right of access to such properties at reasonable times for
the purpose of bringing about compliance with the provisions of this Code or
any order issued hereunder.
   102.12.12 Rental Certificates.
   Rental Certificate Required. All owners of properties defined in this
section shall register such property with the City. No person shall rent,
lease, operate, or otherwise allow the occupancy of any property defined in
this section unless such person holds a valid Rental Certificate as is required
by this Code.
   Issuance; Duration; Validation. If a property defined in this section fails
to comply under Section 102.12.8, and if the property and premises are found
later to comply with the requirements of this Code upon re-inspection, the City
shall issue a temporary Rental Certificate. This Rental Certificate shall be
valid for a period of 30 days from the date of inspection. Upon payment of the
appropriate fees, the City shall validate it.
   Display. Rental Certificates shall be displayed by the owner for the tenant
to examine before the property may be rented, leased, or otherwise occupied.
   Transfer. Rental Certificates shall not be transferable to succeeding
owners. Rental Certificates shall automatically terminate and become null and
void, without further action of the City, upon transfer of property ownership
or upon execution of an agreement to purchase property on contract.
   Termination. Rental certificates shall automatically terminate and become
null and void upon issuance of a nuisance abatement by the City that is
related, in any way, to the property to which the Rental Certificate applies.
   102.12.13 Notice on Sale of Property Defined in This Section. Every person
holding a Rental Certificate under this Code shall give notice, in writing, to
the City within 96 hours after having sold, transferred, conveyed, or otherwise
disposed of the ownership, interest in, or control of any property defined in
this section. This notice shall include the name and address of the person
succeeding to the ownership or control thereof.
   102.12.14 Name and Address of Agent Filed. Every owner, agent, or lessee of
a property defined in this section shall file with the City a notice containing
the name and address of an agent of such property for the purpose of receiving
service of all notices required by this Code.
   102.12.15 Emergency Orders. Whenever the City finds that an emergency exists
which threatens immediately the public health, safety, or welfare, the City may
issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency and requiring that
such action be taken which the City deems necessary to meet the emergency.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Code, such order shall be
effective immediately. Any person to whom such order is directed shall comply
therewith immediately.
   102.12.16 Designation of Unfit Dwelling and Procedures of Condemnation. No
person shall let to another for occupancy any property defined in this section
for the purpose of living, inhabiting, sleeping, cooking, and eating therein
which does not comply with the following requirements. Any such property which
is found to have any of the following defects shall be condemned as unfit for
human habitation and shall be so designated and placarded by the City.
   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, or vermin
infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health, safety, or welfare of
the occupants or the public.
   One which lacks illumination, ventilation, or sanitation facilities adequate
to protect the health, safety, or welfare of the occupants or of the public.
   One which, because of its general condition or location, is unsanitary or
otherwise dangerous to the health, safety, or welfare of the occupants or of
the public.
   102.12.17 Vacated Immediately. Any property defined in this section, or any
portion thereof, condemned as unfit for human habitation and so designated and
placarded by the City shall be vacated immediately as ordered by the City. The
City Administrator shall be notified of such action prior to placarding the
property.
   102.12.18 Elimination of Defects. No property defined in this section, or a
portion thereof, which has been condemned and placarded as unfit for human
habitation shall again be used for human habitation until written approval is
secured from, and such placard is removed by the City. The City shall remove
such placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and
placarding were based have been eliminated.
   102.12.19 Defaced or Removed Placard. No person shall deface or remove the
placard from any property which has been condemned as unfit for human
habitation and placarded as such, except as provided in this Code.
   102.12.20 Authority to Execute. In case any notice or order issued by the
City is not complied with, the City may apply to the district court for an
order authorizing the City to execute and carry out the provisions of the
notice or order to correct any violation specified in the notice or order to
abate any nuisance in or about the property.
   102.12.21 Action to Enjoin. In case any property defined in this section is
constructed, altered, converted, or maintained in violation of any provisions
of this Code, or of any order or notice of the City, or in case a nuisance
exists in any such property or upon the lot on which it is situated, the City
may cause the institution of any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent
such unlawful construction, alteration, conversion, or maintenance, to
restrain, correct, or abate such violation, or nuisance, or to prevent the
occupation of the property, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct business in
or about such property or lot.
   102.12.22 Injunction. In any such action or proceeding, the City may, by a
statement duly verified setting forth the facts, apply to the district court
for an order granting the relief for which the action or proceeding is brought,
or for an order enjoining any persons from doing or permitting to be done any
work in or upon such property, or from occupying or using the same for any
purpose until the entry of final judgment or order.
   102.12.24 Notice of Actions. In any action brought by the City in relation
to a property defined in this section or injunction, vacation of the premises,
or abatement of nuisance, or to establish a lien thereon, or to recover a civil
penalty, service of notice shall be in the manner provided by law for the
service of an original notice.
   102.12.26 City Liability. The City, nor any person authorized and acting on
behalf of the City, shall be liable for damages to a person or property as a
result of any act or failure to act in the enforcement of this Code. This Code
shall not be construed to relieve from, or lessen, the responsibility of any
person owning, operating, or controlling any equipment or structure regulated
herein for damages to a person or property caused by its defects, nor shall the
City, or any person authorized and acting on behalf of the City, be held as
assuming any such liability by reason of the inspections authorized by this
Code or any approvals issued under this Code.
   102.12.27 Civil Liability. The owner of any property defined in this
section, or upon the same lot, in violation of this Code or where a nuisance,
as defined in this Code, exists, who has been guilty of such violation or of
creating or knowingly permitting the existence of such violation, or any
occupant who violates or assists in violating any provisions of this Code,
shall also jointly and severally for each such violation and each such nuisance
be subject to a civil penalty, in a civil action brought in the name of the
City. Such person or persons, and also the premises, shall be liable in such
case for all costs, expenses, and disbursements paid or incurred by the City,
including attorneys’ fees, paid or incurred by the City, by any of the
officers, agents, or employees thereof, in the removal of any such nuisance or
violation.
   102.12.29 Additional Liability. Any person who, having been served with a
notice or order to remove any such nuisance or violation, fails to proceed in
good faith to comply with the notice or order within five days after such
service or who continues to violate any provisions or requirements of this
Code, shall also be subject to a civil penalty. For the recovery of such
penalties, costs, expenses, or disbursements, an action may be brought in a
court of competent civil jurisdiction.
   102.12.30 Rental Housing Code Appeals.
   102.12.30.1 Reconsideration. Any person aggrieved by a notice or order of
the City in connection with any alleged violation of this Rental Housing Code,
of any applicable rule or regulation issued pursuant thereto, or by any order
requiring repair or demolition, may apply to the City Administrator for an
administrative conference for reconsideration of such notice or order if such
application is made within 14 days after the date the notice or order was
served. If the City Administrator holds an administrative conference for
reconsideration of the notice or order, the City shall prepare a written
summary of the conference, including a written statement of the decision
reached. Such summary and statement shall become part of the public record.
   102.12.30.2 Appeal. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the City issued
under Subsection 102.12.30.1 of this subsection may apply to the Council for a
reconsideration of such decision provided such application is made within 21
days after the date the decision was served.
   102.12.30.3 Hearing; Decision. Upon receipt of an appeal, the City
Administrator shall cause the issue to be brought to the Council for a hearing
at the immediately following regularly scheduled Council meeting and shall
advise the applicant in writing of such time and place at least seven days
prior to the date of the hearing. At the hearing, the applicant shall be given
an opportunity to be heard and to show cause why such decision of the City
should be modified, extended, withdrawn, or a variance granted. The Council may
sustain, modify, or withdraw the decision of the City. In granting an extension
or variance of any decision, the Council shall observe the following
conditions, in Subsections 102.12.30.4 and 102.12.30.5:
   102.12.30.4 Extension Granted. The Council may grant an extension of time
for the compliance with any order, notice, or decision, for not more than six
months, subject to appropriate conditions and provided that the Council makes
specific findings of fact based on evidence relating to the following:
      There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in carrying out
the strict letter of any notice, order, or decision; and
      Such an extension is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
this chapter in securing the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   102.12.30.5 Variance. The Council may grant a variance in a specific case
and from a specific provision of this Rental Housing Code subject to
appropriate conditions and provided the Council makes specific findings of fact
based on evidence related to the following:
      The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return or be used for
a conforming purpose if used only for a purpose allowed in that zone or as
allowed by the Rental Housing Code; and
   The plight of the property owner is due to unique circumstances of the
specific property owner and not to the general conditions of other properties
in the City; and
      The use to be authorized by the variance will not alter the essential
character of the locality or the general purposes underlying the Rental Housing
Code in securing the public health, safety, and general welfare; and
      The hardship must be substantial, serious, real, and of compelling force,
as distinguished from reasons of convenience, profit or caprice; and
      The application of a particular Rental Housing Code provision to a
particular property greatly decreases or practically destroys its value for any
permitted use, or where such application bears so little relationship to the
purposes of health, safety, and welfare of the public that, as to the property
in question, the provision is in effect confiscatory, arbitrary, or capricious,
or constitutes an unnecessary, unwarranted, or unjust invasion of, or
interference with, a fundamental right or property; and
      The unnecessary hardship of practical difficulties along with their
arbitrary effect cannot be remedied by the grant of an extension.
      Such grant of variance shall not go into effect until 21 days after the
date the variance is granted.
   Section 302.4 Weeds. Insert: “six inches”.
   Section 304.14 Insect Screens. Insert: “April 1” and “October 31”
   Section 404.4.1 Room Area. Delete “one person” and insert in lieu thereof
“two persons”
   Section 602.3 Heat Supply. Insert: “October 1” and “April 30”
   Section 602.4 Occupiable Workspaces. Insert: “October 1” and “April 30”
CHAPTER 157
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
 
157.01 Purpose                    157.03 Amendments
157.02 Adoption of Specifications 157.04 Violation
 
157.01   PURPOSE.
   In order to ensure the consistent high quality of materials and workmanship
in all public construction projects, the City deems it in the public interest
to establish and publish Standard Construction Specifications which shall apply
to and govern the construction of all public improvements in public rights-of-
way within the City.
157.02   ADOPTION OF SPECIFICATIONS.
   The City adopts, by reference, the following minimum standards for public
improvements constructed within the City’s jurisdictional area. The Iowa
Statewide Urban Design and Specifications, 2025 Edition (SUDAS) manuals shall
be the adopted City Standard for Public Improvements. SUDAS shall be the
minimum standards; due to unusual or extenuating circumstances, the City may
require that projects conform to additional standards or to greater than
minimum standards. A copy of the specifications shall remain on file at the
office of the Clerk and shall be available for inspection and copying. All
contractors and suppliers shall be charged with knowledge of its contents.
157.03   AMENDMENTS.
   The City may, from time to time, make additions or changes to the
specifications in the form of amendments adopted by resolution. Following
adoption by resolution, the amendments shall be placed in the publication on
file with the Clerk and shall have the full force and effect of law as of the
date the amendments are filed.
157.04   VIOLATION.
   Any person violating any provisions of the Standard Construction
Specifications shall be guilty of a simple misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 160
CONSTRUCTION SITE EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
 
160.01 Findings              160.07 Monitoring Procedures
160.02 Purpose               160.08 Enforcement
160.03 Definitions           160.09 Failure to Comply
160.04 Applicability         160.10 Appeal
160.05 Application Procedure 160.11 Financial Securities
160.06 Inspection Procedures 160.12 Right of Entry
 
160.01   FINDINGS.
   1.   The U.S. EPA’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(“NPDES”) permit program (“Program”) administered by the Iowa Department of
Natural Resources (“IDNR”) requires that cities meeting certain demographic and
environmental impact criteria obtain from the IDNR an NPDES Permit for the
discharge of stormwater from a Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (“MS4”)
(“MS4 Permit”). The City is subject to the Program and is required to obtain,
and has obtained, an MS4 Permit; the City’s MS4 Permit is on file at the office
of the Clerk and is available for public inspection during regular office
hours.
   2.   The Program requires certain individuals engaged in construction
activities (“applicants”) to submit an application to the IDNR for a State
NPDES General Permit #2. Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, every
applicant bears final and complete responsibility for compliance with a State
NPDES General Permit #2 and a City COSESCO Permit and any other requirement of
State or federal law or administrative rule.
   3.   As a condition of the City’s MS4 Permit, the City is obliged to
undertake responsibility for administration and enforcement of the Program by
adopting a Construction Site Erosion and Sediment Control (“COSESCO”) ordinance
designed to achieve the following objectives:
      A.   Any applicant required by law or administrative rule to apply to the
IDNR for a State NPDES General Permit #2 shall also be required to obtain from
the City a COSESCO Permit (“City COSESCO Permit”) in addition to and not in
lieu of the State NPDES General Permit #2; and
      B.   The City shall have responsibility for inspection, monitoring, and
enforcement procedures to promote applicants’ compliance with State NPDES
General Permit #2 and City COSESCO Permits.
   4.   No State or federal funds have been made available to assist the City
in administering and enforcing the Program. Accordingly, the City shall fund
its application, inspection, monitoring, and enforcement responsibilities
entirely by fees imposed on the owners of properties which are made subject to
the Program by virtue of State and federal law, or other sources of funding
established by a separate ordinance.
   5.   Terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings specified in the
Program.
160.02   PURPOSE.
   The general purpose of this chapter is to establish regulatory requirements
for land development and land disturbing activities aimed at minimizing the
threats to public health, safety, public, and private property, and natural
resources within the community from construction site erosion. Specific
purposes are to establish performance standards that will provide a single,
consistent set of performance standards that apply to all developments and will
protect public and private property and Walnut Creek and North Walnut Creek
from damage resulting from erosion and sediment in stormwater runoff.
160.03   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined.
   1.   “Applicant” means a property owner or agent of a property owner who has
filed an application for a Construction Site Erosion and Sediment Control
Permit.
   2.   “Developer” means a person who undertakes land disturbance activities.
   3.   “Development” means land disturbance activity on land previously vacant
of buildings or largely free of previous land disturbance activity other than
traditional agricultural activities; or on land where existing land use is high
density commercial or residential (a.k.a. “redevelopment”).
   4.   “Enforcement Officer” means that person designated by the City having
responsibility for administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   5.   “Land disturbance activity” means any activity which changes the volume
or peak flow discharge rate of rainfall runoff from the land surface. This may
include the grading, digging, cutting, scraping, or excavating of soil,
placement of fill materials, paving, construction. substantial removal of
vegetation, or any activity which bares soil or rock or involves the diversion
or piping of any natural or manmade watercourse.
   6.   “Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan” (SWPPP) means a plan that is
designed to minimize the accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site
during construction activities.
   7.   “Iowa Stormwater Management Manual” (ISWMM) means the current Iowa
Stormwater Management Manual publication, by whatever name, as amended from
time to time by Iowa Department of Natural Resources and which recommends
stormwater management guidelines and uniform sizing criteria and BMPs designed
to address said guidelines.
   8.   “Iowa Statewide Urban Design and Specifications” (SUDAS) means the
current Iowa Statewide Urban Design and Specifications manual, as amended, and
maintained by the Institute for Transportation at Iowa State University which
provides design guidance and standard specifications for typical public works
projects.
160.04   APPLICABILITY.
   1.   All persons required by law or administrative rule to obtain a State
NPDES General Permit #2 from the IDNR are required to obtain a City COSESCO
Permit and prepare a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP).
   2.   All persons are required to obtain a City COSESCO Permit and prepare an
Erosion and Sediment Control Plan (ESC) if proposing a land disturbance
activity that will:
      A.   Disturb a total land surface area of between 3,000 square feet and
one acre; or
      B.   Excavate or fill a volume in excess of 50 cubic yards of material;
or
      C.   Lay, repair, replace, or enlarge an underground utility, pipe, or
other facility, or disturb a road ditch, grass swale, or other open channel for
a distance of 300 feet or more.
160.05   APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   1.   The applicant shall request a pre-application meeting, which will be
facilitated by the City between the applicant, City staff, and staff of partner
agencies as applicable. The meeting shall be mandatory prior to submission of a
permit application. The purposes of the meeting are to understand the general
parameters of the proposed project and to convey the requirements of meeting
the provisions of this chapter and other applicable ordinances.
   2.   The City shall make a determination regarding the completeness of a
City COSESCO Permit application within 10 business days of the receipt of the
application and notify the applicant in writing if the application is not
complete, including the reasons the application was deemed incomplete.
   3.   The applicant shall not commence any construction activity subject to
this chapter until a City COSESCO Permit has been authorized by the City. A
complete review of the permit application shall be done within 15 business days
of the receipt of a complete permit application from the applicant. The City
will work with the necessary State, County, and local agencies to complete its
review. The City shall review all information in the permit application,
including proposed stormwater practices, hydrologic models, and design
methodologies and certify compliance with this chapter. Applications for City
COSESCO Permits shall be made on forms approved by the City, which applications
may be obtained from the office of the Clerk.
   4.   All permit fees under this chapter shall be fixed and determined by the
Council, adopted by resolution, and uniformly enforced. Such permit fees may,
from time to time, be amended by the Council by resolution.
   5.   An applicant in possession of a State NPDES General Permit #2 issued by
the IDNR shall immediately submit to the City full copies of the materials
described below as a basis for the City to determine whether to issue a City
COSESCO Permit:
      A.   Applicant’s plans, specifications, and supporting materials
previously submitted to the IDNR in support of applicant’
      B.   Applicant’s authorizations issued pursuant to applicant’s State
NPDES General Permit #2; and
      C.   A Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (“SWPPP”) prepared in
accordance with this chapter.
   6.   Every SWPPP submitted to the City in support of an application for a
City COSESCO Permit shall:
      A.   Comply with all current minimum mandatory requirements for SWPPPs
promulgated by the IDNR in connection with issuance of a State NPDES General
Permit #2;
      B.   Comply with all other applicable State or federal permit
requirements in existence at the time of application;
      C.   Be prepared by a licensed professional engineer or landscape
architect, or a professional in erosion and sediment control, or a
representative of the local Soil and Water Conservation District, credentialed
in a manner acceptable to the City; and
      D.   Include within the SWPPP a signed and dated certification by the
NPDES General Permit #2 permit holder that the SWPPP complies with all
requirements of this chapter and the applicant’s NPDES General Permit #2.
   7.   In addition to the SWPPP requirements stated in Subsection 6 of this
section, which constitute minimum mandatory requirements imposed by the
Program, every SWPPP submitted to the City in support of an application for a
City COSESCO Permit shall comply with SUDAS standard design criteria,
including, but not limited to, design, location, and phased implementation of
effective, practicable stormwater pollution prevention measures, and shall
also:
      A.   Limit total off-site annual aggregate sediment yield for exposed
areas to an equivalent amount resulting from sheet and rill erosion equal to an
annual, cumulative soil loss rate not to exceed the standard established, from
time to time, by Soil and Water Conservation Districts; erosion rates can
exceed soil loss limits as long as sediment yield does not exceed that expected
from allowable erosion rates.
      B.   Identify the nature of the construction activity and the potential
for sediment and other pollutant discharges from the site.
      C.   Calculate the predicted erosion and estimated sediment yield for the
construction site using the USDA Revised Universal Soil Loss Equation.
      D.   Assure that stockpiles of soil or other materials subject to erosion
by wind or water are covered, vegetated, or otherwise effectively protected
from erosion and sedimentation in accordance with the amount of time the
material will be on site and the manner of its proposed use; no stockpiling is
allowed in the street.
      E.   Include an affidavit stating that the erosion caused by the activity
will not exceed the Soil and Water Conservation District’s adopted soil and
loss limits according to Section 161A.64 of the Code of Iowa.
      F.   Identify measures and procedures to reasonably minimize site soil
compaction and provide soil quality restoration as specified.
      G.   Assure that all temporary erosion and sediment controls shall not be
removed until the City has determined that the site has been permanently
stabilized.
      H.   Assure that all disturbed sites be permanently stabilized with 70
percent perennial cover as measured by the USDA line transect method.
      I.   Identify methods to prevent sediment damage to adjacent properties
and sensitive environmental areas such as water bodies, plant communities,
rare, threatened, or endangered species habitats, wildlife corridors,
greenways, etc.
      J.   Provide for design and construction methods to stabilize steep or
long continuous slopes.
      K.   Include measures to control the quantity and quality of stormwater
leaving a site before, during, and after construction.
      L.   Provide for stabilization of all waterways and outlets.
      M.   Protect storm sewer infrastructure from sediment loading or
plugging.
      N.   Specify precautions to be taken to contain sediment when working in
or crossing water bodies.
      O.   Assure stabilization of disturbed areas, including utility
construction areas, as soon as possible.
      P.   Protect outlying roads from sediment and mud from construction site
activities, including tracking.
      Q.   Provide for disposal of collected sediment and floating debris.
      R.   Assure that, when working near Walnut or North Walnut Creek, the
specific practices itemized immediately below are utilized:
         (1)   During Construction.
a.   All exposed soil areas with a slope of 3:1 or steeper, which have a
continuous positive slope to Walnut or North Walnut Creek, should have
temporary erosion protection or permanent cover within three days after the
area is no longer actively being worked; all other slopes that have a
continuous positive slope to Walnut or North Walnut Creek should have temporary
erosion protection or permanent cover within seven days after the area is no
longer actively being worked.
b.   Temporary sediment basin requirements should be used for common drainage
locations that serve an area with five or more acres disturbed at one time.
         (2)   Buffer Zone. Provide for the maintenance at all times of an
undisturbed buffer zone consisting of not less than 100 linear feet from Walnut
or North Walnut Creek. Exceptions from this for areas such as water crossings
or limited water access are allowed if the applicant fully documents in the
SWPPP the circumstances and reasons that the buffer encroachment is necessary;
all potential water quality, scenic, and other environmental impacts of these
exceptions should be minimized and documented in the SWPPP for the project.
         (3)   Enhanced Temperature Controls. Design the permanent stormwater
management system such that the discharge from the project will minimize any
increase in the temperature.
            a.   Minimize new impervious surfaces; or
            b.   Other methods that will minimize any increase in the
temperature of the sensitive waters.
   8.   Issuance by the City of a City COSESCO Permit shall be a condition
precedent for the issuance of a City Building Permit or site plan approval.
   9.   Every Erosion and Sediment Control Plan (ESC) submitted to the City in
support of a City COSESCO Permit shall:
      A.   Phase construction to minimize duration of exposed soil areas.
      B.   Provide temporary and permanent erosion prevention, sediment
control, stormwater runoff, and soil stabilization BMPs along with procedures
to establish additional temporary BMPs as necessary for the site conditions
during construction.
      C.   Provide final stabilization of all exposed soil areas.
      D.   Incorporate the following into the site design for erosion and
sediment control:
         (1)   Minimize disturbance of natural soil cover and vegetation.
         (2)   Minimize, in area and duration, exposed soil and unstable soil
conditions.
         (3)   Protect receiving water bodies, wetlands, and storm sewer
inlets.
         (4)   Protect adjacent properties from sediment deposition.
         (5)   Minimize off-site sediment transport on trucks and equipment.
         (6)   Minimize work in and adjacent to water bodies and wetlands.
         (7)   Maintain stable slopes.
         (8)   Avoid steep slopes and the need for high cuts and fills.
         (9)   Minimize disturbance to the surrounding soils, root systems, and
trunks of trees adjacent to site activity that are intended to be left
standing.
         (10)   Minimize the compaction of site soils.
      E.   Identify the:
         (1)   Elevations, sections, profiles, and details as needed to
describe all natural and artificial features of the project.
         (2)   One-hundred-year flood elevation with and without the floodway,
flood fringe, or general flood boundary, if available.
         (3)   Normal water level, high water level, and emergency overflow
elevations for the site and all associated ponding systems.
         (4)   Locations of all stormwater management practices, infiltration
areas, and areas not to be disturbed during construction.
         (5)   Location, size, and approximate grade of proposed public sewer
and water mains.
         (6)   Construction phasing, including a map and calculations as
necessary of areas of grubbing, clearing, tree removal, grading, excavation,
fill, and other disturbance; areas of soil or earth material storage;
quantities of soil or earth material to be removed, placed, stored, or
otherwise moved on site, delineated limits of disturbance, and final
stabilization methods.
         (7)   Locations of planned temporary and permanent erosion prevention,
sediment control, stormwater runoff, and soil stabilization BMPs.
   10.   For so long as a construction site is subject to a State NPDES General
Permit #2 or a City COSESCO Permit, the applicant shall provide the City with
current information, as follows:
      A.   The name, address, and telephone number of the person on site
designated by the owner who is knowledgeable and experienced in erosion and
sediment control and who will oversee compliance with the State NPDES General
Permit #2 and the City COSESCO Permit;
      B.   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the contractors or
subcontractors that will implement each erosion and sediment control measure
identified in the SWPPP or ESC.
   11.   Applicant’s failure to provide current information shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   12.   Developers can transfer State NPDES General Permit #2 and the City
COSESCO Permit responsibility to homebuilders, new lot owners, contractors, and
subcontractors. Transferees must agree to the transfer in writing, must agree
to fulfill all obligations of the SWPPP or ESC, the State NPDES General Permit
#2 (if applicable), and the City COSESCO Permit. Absent such written
confirmation of transfer of obligations, the developer remains responsible for
compliance on any lot that has been sold. A developer shall notify the City of
any application to the DNR for release of any property from a NPDES General
Permit #2 pursuant to Iowa Administrative Code 567, 64.6(6) or any similar
successor provision.
   13.   Upon receipt of an application for a City COSESCO Permit, the City
shall either find that the application complies with this chapter and issue a
City COSESCO Permit in accordance with this chapter, or that the application
fails to comply with this chapter; in which case, the City shall provide a bill
of particulars identifying non-compliant elements of the application. The City
will use a consulting engineer to accomplish this review.
   14.   Application for termination of a City COSESCO Permit shall be made by
contacting the City Inspector.
   15.   Before work under the permit is deemed complete, the permittee must
submit as-builts and a maintenance plan demonstrating at the time of final
stabilization that the stormwater facilities conform to design specifications.
160.06   INSPECTION PROCEDURES.
   1.   All inspections required under this chapter shall be conducted by the
Public Works Director, City Engineer, Building Inspector, a subcontractor
credentialed in a manner satisfactory to the City, or other appropriate
designee, hereinafter referred to as the “Enforcement Officer.”
   2.   The City shall conduct inspections on a regular basis to ensure that
both stormwater and erosion and sediment control measures are properly
installed and maintained prior to construction, during construction, and at the
completion of the project. Mandatory inspections are required as follows:
      A.   Before any land disturbing activity begins;
      B.   At the time of footing inspections;
      C.   At the completion of the project; and
      D.   Prior to the release of financial securities.
   3.   Applicant shall notify the City prior to commencing land disturbing
activity, at the time of footing inspections and when all measures required by
applicant’s SWPPP have been accomplished on-site, whereupon the City shall
conduct an initial inspection for the purpose of determining compliance with
this chapter, and shall within a reasonable time thereafter report to the
applicant either that compliance appears to have been achieved, or that
compliance has not been achieved, in which case the City shall provide a bill
of particulars identifying the conditions of noncompliance. The applicant shall
immediately commence corrective action and shall complete such corrective
action within 24 hours of receiving the City’s bill of particulars. For good
cause shown, the City may extend the deadline for taking corrective action.
Failure to take corrective action in a timely manner shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   4.   Construction shall not occur on the site at any time when the City has
identified conditions of noncompliance.
   5.   Construction activities undertaken by an applicant prior to resolution
of all discrepancies specified in the bill of particulars shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   6.   The City shall not be responsible for the direct or indirect
consequences to the applicant or to third parties for non-compliant conditions
undetected by inspection.
160.07   MONITORING PROCEDURES.
   1.   Upon issuance of a City COSESCO Permit, an applicant has an absolute
duty to monitor site conditions and to report to the Enforcement Officer any
change of circumstances or site conditions which the applicant knows or should
know pose a risk of stormwater discharge in a manner inconsistent with
applicant’s SWPPP, State NPDES General Permit #2, or City COSESCO Permit.
      A.   Such report shall be made by the applicant to the Enforcement
Officer immediately, but in any event within 24 hours of the change of
circumstances or site conditions.
      B.   Failure to make a timely report shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
   2.   Any third party may also report to the City site conditions which the
third party reasonably believes pose a risk of stormwater discharge in a manner
inconsistent with applicant’s SWPPP, State NPDES General Permit #2, or City
COSESCO Permit.
   3.   Upon receiving a report pursuant to the previous subsections, the
Enforcement Officer shall conduct an inspection of the site as soon as
reasonably possible and thereafter shall provide the applicant with a bill of
particulars identifying the conditions of noncompliance. The applicant shall
immediately commence corrective action and shall complete such corrective
action within 24 hours of receiving the City’s bill of particulars. For good
cause shown, the City may extend the deadline for completing corrective action.
Failure to take corrective action in a timely manner shall constitute a
violation of this chapter, whereupon the Enforcement Officer shall immediately
commence enforcement actions specified in Section 160.08.
   4.   Unless a report is made to the Enforcement Officer pursuant to the
previous subsections, the Enforcement Officer shall conduct at least one
unannounced inspection during the course of construction to monitor compliance
with the State NPDES General Permit #2 and the City COSESCO Permit. If the
inspection discloses any significant noncompliance, the Enforcement Officer
shall provide the applicant with a bill of particulars identifying the
conditions of noncompliance. The applicant shall immediately commence
corrective action and shall complete such corrective action within 24 hours of
receiving the City’s bill of particulars. For good cause shown, the City may
extend the deadline for completing corrective action. Failure to take
corrective action in a timely manner shall constitute a violation of this
chapter, whereupon the Enforcement Officer shall immediately commence
enforcement actions specified in Section 160.08.
   5.   The City shall not be responsible for the direct or indirect
consequences to the applicant or to third parties for non-compliant conditions
undetected by inspection.
160.08   ENFORCEMENT.
   1.   Violation of any provision of this chapter may be enforced by civil
action, including an action for injunctive relief. In any civil enforcement
action, administrative or judicial, the City shall be entitled to recover its
attorneys’ fees and costs from a person who is determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction to have violated this chapter.
   2.   Violation of any provision of this chapter may also be enforced as a
municipal infraction within the meaning of Section 364.22 of the Code of Iowa,
pursuant to Chapter 3.
   3.   Enforcement pursuant to this section shall be undertaken by the
Enforcement Officer upon the advice and consent of the City Attorney.
   4.   In cases where cooperation for inspections is withheld, construction
stop work orders shall be issued by the City until stormwater and erosion, and
sediment control measures meet the requirements of this chapter. An inspection
must follow before work can resume.
   5.   If stormwater or erosion and sediment control management measures
malfunction and breach the perimeter of the site, enter streets, other public
areas, or Walnut and North Walnut Creek, the applicant shall immediately
develop a cleanup and restoration plan, obtain the right-of-way from the
adjoining property owner, and implement the cleanup and restoration plan within
48 hours of obtaining permission. If, in the discretion of the City, the
applicant does not repair the damage caused by the stormwater runoff, the City
can complete the remedial work required and charge the cost to the applicant.
If payment is not made within 30 days, payment will be made from the
applicant’s financial securities.
   6.   The City can take any combination of the following actions in the event
of a failure by applicant to meet the terms of this chapter:
      A.   Withhold inspections or issuance of certificates or approvals;
      B.   Revoke any permit issued by the City to the applicant;
      C.   Conduct remedial or corrective action on the development site or
adjacent site affected by the failure;
      D.   Charge applicant for all costs associated with correcting the
failure or remediating damage from the failure; if payment is not made within
30 days, payment will be made from the applicant’s financial securities;
      E.   Bring other actions against the applicant to recover costs of
remediation or meeting the terms of this chapter; and
      F.   Any person, firm, or corporation failing to comply with or violating
any of these regulations shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject
to a fine. Each day that a separate violation exists shall constitute a
separate offense.
160.09   FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Failure to comply with this chapter constitutes a municipal infraction. The
property owner is responsible to ensure that this chapter is observed.
160.10   APPEAL.
Administrative decisions by City staff and enforcement actions of the
Enforcement Officer may be appealed by the applicant to the Council pursuant to
the following rules:
   1.   The appeal must be filed in writing with the Clerk within five business
days of the decision or enforcement action.
   2.   The written appeal shall specify in detail the action appealed from,
the errors allegedly made by the Enforcement Officer giving rise to the appeal,
a written summary of all oral and written testimony the applicant intends to
introduce at the hearing, including the names and addresses of all witnesses
the applicant intends to call, copies of all documents the applicant intends to
introduce at the hearing, and the relief requested.
   3.   The Enforcement Officer shall specify in writing the reasons for the
enforcement action, a written summary of all oral and written testimony the
enforcement officer intends to introduce at the hearing, including the names
and addresses of all witnesses the Enforcement Officer intends to call, and
copies of all documents the enforcement officer intends to introduce at the
hearing.
   4.   The Clerk shall notify the applicant and the Enforcement Officer by
ordinary mail, and shall give public notice, in accordance with Chapter 21 of
the Code of Iowa, of the date, time, and place for the regular or special
meeting of the Council at which the hearing on the appeal shall occur. The
hearing shall be scheduled for a date not less than four or more than 20 days
after the filing of the appeal. The rules of evidence and procedure, and the
standard of proof to be applied, shall be the same as provided by Chapter 17A
of the Code of Iowa. The applicant may be represented by counsel at the
applicant’s expense. The Enforcement Officer may be represented by the City
Attorney or by an attorney designated by the Council at City expense.
   The decision of the Council shall be rendered in writing and may be appealed
to the Iowa District Court.
160.11   FINANCIAL SECURITIES.
   1.   The City shall require financial securities from the applicant in an
amount sufficient to cover the entirety of the estimated costs of permitted and
remedial work based on the final design as established in a set finance
security schedule determined by the City.
   2.   Financial securities shall not be released until all permitted and
remedial work is completed.
   3.   Financial securities may be used by the City to complete work not
completed by the applicant.
   4.   The form of the financial securities shall be one or a combination of
the following to be determined by the City:
      A.   Cash Deposit. The first $5,000.00 of the financial security for
erosion and sediment control shall be by cash deposit to the City. The cash
will be held by the City in a separate account.
      B.   Securing Deposit. Deposit, either with the City, a responsible
escrow agent, or trust company and, at the option of the City, either:
         (1)   An irrevocable letter of credit or negotiable bonds of the kind
approved for securing deposits of public money or other instruments of credit
from one or more financial institutions, subject to regulation by State and
federal government wherein said financial institution pledges funds are on
deposit and guaranteed for payment;
         (2)   Cash in U.S. currency; or
         (3)   Other forms of securities (e.g., disbursing agreement) as
approved by the City.
   5.   The security shall save the City free and harmless from all suits or
claims for damages resulting from the negligent grading removal, placement or
storage of rock, sand, gravel, soil, or other like material within the City.
   6.   If, at any time during the course of the work, the amount falls below
50 percent of the required deposit, the applicant shall make another deposit in
the amount necessary to restore the cash deposit to the required amount. If the
applicant does not bring the financial security back up to the required amount
within seven days after notification by the City that the amount has fallen
below 50 percent of the required amount, the City may:
      A.   Withhold the scheduling of inspections or the issuance of a
Certificate of Occupancy.
      B.   Revoke any permit issued by the City to the applicant for the site
in question or any other of the applicant’s sites within the City’s
jurisdiction.
   7.   The City may access financial security for remediation actions if any
of the conditions listed below exist. The City shall use the security to
finance remedial work undertaken by the City, or a private contractor under
contract to the City, to reimburse the City for all direct costs incurred in
the process of remedial work, including, but not limited to, staff time and
attorney fees.
      A.   Abandonment. The applicant ceases land disturbing activities or
filling and abandons the work site prior to completion of the grading plan.
      B.   Failure to Implement the SWPPP or ESC Plan. The applicant fails to
conform to the grading plan or the SWPPP as approved by the City.
      C.   Failure to Perform. The techniques utilized under the SWPPP or ESC
Plan fail within one year of installation.
      D.   Failure to Reimburse the City. The applicant fails to reimburse the
City for corrective action taken.
   8.   When more than one-third of the applicant’s maximum exposed soil area
achieves final stabilization, the City can reduce the total required amount of
the financial security by one-third. When more than two-thirds of the
applicant’s maximum exposed soil area achieves final stabilization, the City
can reduce the total required amount of the financial security to two-thirds of
the initial amount. This reduction in financial security will be determined by
the City.
   9.   The security deposited with the City for faithful performance of the
SWPPP or ESC Plan and any related remedial work shall be released one full year
after the completion of the installation of all stormwater pollution control
measures as shown on the SWPPP or ESC Plan.
160.12   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The issuance of a permit constitutes a right of entry for the City, or its
contractor, to enter upon the construction site. The applicant shall allow the
City and the City’s authorized representative upon presentation of credentials
to:
   1.   Enter upon the permitted site for the purpose of obtaining information,
examination of records, conducting investigations, or surveys;
   2.   Bring such equipment upon the permitted site as is necessary to conduct
such surveys and investigation;
   3.   Examine and copy any books, papers, records, or memoranda pertaining to
activities or records required to be kept under the terms and conditions of the
permit;
   4.   Inspect the stormwater pollution control measures;
   5.   Sample and monitor any items or activities pertaining to stormwater
pollution control measures; and
   6.   Correct deficiencies in stormwater and erosion and sediment control
measures.
CHAPTER 161
POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER CONTROL
161.01 Findings of Fact         161.10 Approval of Stormwater Management
                                Final Plan
161.02 Purpose                  161.11 Performance Security or Bond
161.03 Applicability            161.12 Maintenance Performance Security
                                or Bond
161.04 Compatibility with Other 161.13 Construction Inspection
Requirements
161.05 Definitions              161.14 Maintenance and Repair of
                                Stormwater BMPs
161.06 Permit Procedures and    161.15 Enforcement and Penalties
Requirements
161.07 Waivers                  161.16 Appeal
161.08 Stormwater Standards
161.09 Approval of Stormwater
Management Concept Plan
 
161.01   FINDINGS OF FACT.
   1.   The U.S. EPA’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(“NPDES”) Permit Program (“Program”) administered by the Iowa Department of
Natural Resources (“IDNR”) requires that cities meeting certain demographic and
environmental impact criteria obtain from the IDNR an NPDES Permit for the
discharge of stormwater from a Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (“MS4”)
(“MS4 Permit”). The City is subject to the Program and is required to obtain,
and has obtained, an MS4 Permit; the City’s MS4 Permit is on file at the office
of the Clerk and is available for public inspection during regular office
hours.
   2.   As a condition of the City’s MS4 Permit, the City is obliged to
develop, implement, adopt, and enforce a post-construction stormwater control
ordinance.
   3.   No State or federal funds have been made available to assist the City
in administering and enforcing the Program. Accordingly, the City shall fund
its operations under this chapter entirely by charges imposed on the owners or
developers of properties which are made subject to the Program by virtue of
State and federal law, or other sources of funding established by a separate
ordinance.
   4.   Land development and associated increases in impervious cover alter the
hydrologic response of local watersheds and increase stormwater runoff rates
and volumes, flooding, stream channel erosion, and sediment transport and
deposition if left uncontrolled; this uncontrolled stormwater runoff
contributes to increased quantities of water-borne pollutants; and stormwater
runoff, soil erosion, and non-point source pollution can be controlled and
minimized through the regulation of stormwater runoff from development sites.
   5.   Therefore, City establishes this set of City stormwater requirements
applicable to all surface waters to provide reasonable guidance for the
regulation of stormwater runoff for the purpose of protecting local water
resources from degradation. It is determined that the regulation of stormwater
runoff discharges from land development and other construction activities in
order to control and minimize increases in stormwater runoff rates and volumes,
soil erosion, stream channel erosion, and non-point source pollution associated
with stormwater runoff is in the public interest and will prevent threats to
public health and safety.
   6.   The Iowa Stormwater Management Manual published by the Iowa Department
of Natural Resources establishes guidelines consisting of unified sizing
criteria (water quality volume, channel protection storage volume, overbank
flood protection, extreme flood protection), stormwater management designs and
specifications, and best management practices (BMPs). The City hereby finds and
declares that the guidelines provided for in the Iowa Stormwater Management
Manual, or future editions thereof, along with any locally adopted
modifications, are hereby adopted as the stormwater management standards of the
City. Any BMP installation that complies with the provisions of the Iowa
Stormwater Management Manual, or future editions thereof, at the time of
installation shall be deemed to have been installed in accordance with this
chapter.
161.02   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish and adopt the City’s standards and
sizing criteria, and to require the BMPs defined within the ISWMM to address
said standards and as specifically identified above (hereinafter collectively
“City stormwater requirements”) in order to protect and safeguard the general
health, safety, and welfare of the public within this jurisdiction. This
chapter seeks to meet that purpose through the following objectives:
   1.   Minimize increases in stormwater runoff from development within the
City limits and fringe area in order to reduce flooding, siltation, increases
in stream temperature, and stream bank erosion and maintain the integrity of
stream channels;
   2.   Minimize increases in non-point source pollution caused by stormwater
runoff from development which would otherwise degrade local water quality;
   3.   Minimize the total annual volume of surface water runoff which flows
from any specific development project site after completion to not exceed the
pre-development hydrologic regime to the maximum extent practicable; and
   4.   Reduce stormwater runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion, and non-point
source pollution, wherever possible, through establishment of appropriate
minimum stormwater management standards and BMPs and to ensure that BMPs are
properly maintained and pose no threat to public safety.
161.03   APPLICABILITY.
   1.   This chapter is applicable to all subdivision or site plan applications
meeting the minimum square foot applicability criteria of Subsection 2 of this
section, unless eligible for an exemption or granted a waiver by the City under
Section
161.07. This chapter also applies to land disturbance activities that are
smaller than the minimum square foot applicability criteria specified in
Subsection 2 if such activities are part of a larger common plan of development
that meets the minimum square foot applicability criteria specified in
Subsection 2, even though multiple separate and distinct land development
activities may take place at different times on different schedules. In
addition, all plans must also be reviewed by an engineer hired by the City to
ensure that established water quality standards will be maintained during and
after development of the site and that post-construction runoff levels are
consistent with any local and regional watershed plans. The following
activities are exempt from this chapter:
      A.   Any logging and agricultural activity which is consistent with an
approved soil conservation plan or a timber management plan prepared or
approved by the appropriate agency, as applicable.
      B.   Additions or modifications to existing single-family structures.
      C.   Repairs to any stormwater BMPs deemed necessary by the City.
   2.   City stormwater requirements must be met for development or
redevelopment to be approved. Final authorization of all development and
redevelopment projects shall be determined after a review by the City. City
stormwater requirements apply to any development and redevelopment meeting at
least one of the following:
      A.   Any redevelopment adding more than 10,000 square feet of new
impervious surface, but disturbing less than 50 percent of the site, shall
provide stormwater management at the water quality volume standard and shall
meet the channel protection standard or demonstrate why doing so is infeasible.
This threshold is a cumulative amount of new square footage and may be reached
over time in increments.
      B.   Any redevelopment disturbing 50 percent or more of a site shall be
required to meet the same stormwater management standards as a new development.
This threshold is a cumulative amount of new square footage and may be reached
over time in increments.
      C.   Any new development adding more than 10,000 square feet of new
impervious surface shall meet the stormwater management standards as outlined.
This threshold is a cumulative amount of new square footage and may be reached
over time in increments. At such time that a development site exceeds 10,000
cumulative square feet of new impervious surface, the site will be required to
come into compliance with this ordinance.
      D.   Land disturbing activity exceeding 25,000 square feet in area where
the existing land is being redeveloped.
   3.   When a site development plan is submitted that qualifies as a
development, as defined in this chapter, decisions on permitting any
appropriate on-site BMPs shall be guided by the SUDAS Design Manual. Final
authorization of all development and redevelopment projects will be determined
after a review by City.
161.04   COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   It is intended that this chapter be construed to be consistent with
Chapter 160 and
Chapter 102. It is intended that this chapter be construed to be consistent
with
Chapter 185 as well as any other applicable local, State, or federal
regulation.
   2.   The requirements of this chapter should be considered minimum
requirements, and where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions
different from those imposed by any other chapter, rule or regulation, or other
provision of law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher
protective standards for human health or the environment shall be considered to
take precedence.
161.05   DEFINITIONS.
Terms in this chapter, other than those defined below, shall have the meanings
set out in the Iowa Stormwater Management Manual.
   1.   “Applicant” means a property owner or agent of a property owner who has
filed an application for a Stormwater Management Permit.
   2.   “Best management practice” (BMP) means physical practices or structures
determined to be practices used to reduce pollutant loads, discharge volumes,
peak flow discharge rates, and detrimental changes in stream temperature that
affect water quality and habitat. BMPs can be structural or non-structural.
Non-structural BMPs focus on preserving open space, protecting natural systems,
and incorporating existing landscape features such as wetlands and stream
corridors into a site plan to manage stormwater at its source. Structural BMPs
include constructed ponds, pavement systems, oil or grease separators, planted
vegetative areas such as grassed swales, bioretention and other infiltration-
based practices, outlet structures, and other constructed facilities intended
to manage stormwater.
   3.   “Buffer” means, for this chapter, a vegetative area, including trees,
shrubs, and herbaceous vegetation, that exists or is established to protect a
stream system, lake, or reservoir area.
   4.   “Building” means any structure, either temporary or permanent, having
walls and a roof, designed for the shelter of any person, animal, or property.
For purposes of this chapter, structures not intended for shelter such as a
pergola, trellis, gazebo, and any other constructed obstacle shall also be
considered to be buildings and shall be reviewed for impact on stormwater
management.
   5.   “Channel protection storage volume” means providing for practices that
will allow for extended detention of the runoff generated by a one-year, 24-
hour event. This means capturing the runoff volume from a storm of this nature
and slowly releasing it over a period of no less than 24-hours to reduce rapid
“bounce” effect common in many urban streams that leads to downcutting and
streambank erosion.
   6.   “City stormwater requirements” means the standards, sizing criteria,
BMPs, and other requirements established in this chapter.
   7.   “Concept plan” shall be submitted for review during the planning
process. This plan should be considered to be a 30 percent development plan
showing conceptually where stormwater practices will be located and how the
stormwater will be routed to the facilities. This submittal shall include all
of the information stated in this chapter.
   8.   “COSESCO” means Construction Site Erosion and Sediment Control
Ordinance Permit issued by the Public Works Department.
   9.   “Developer” means a person, persons, or entity who undertakes land
disturbance activities.
   10.   “Developer” means a person who undertakes land disturbance activities.
   11.   “Development” means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations whether
as a single site or part of a larger common plan of development.
   12.   “Drainage easement” means a legal right granted by a landowner to a
cable operator allowing the use of private land for stormwater management
purposes.
   13.   “Enforcement Officer” means that person designated by the City having
responsibility for administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   14.   “Existing conditions” means the circumstances of the site at the time
of first review of site plans or upon-initial submittal of permit applications.
   15.   “Extreme flood protection” means managing the effects of larger storm
events (10-year to 100-year recurrence intervals) on the stormwater management
system, adjacent property, and downstream facilities and property. The
management of these extreme events is accomplished using detention controls or
floodplain management.
   16.   “Fee in lieu” means a payment of money in place of achieving or
exceeding all or part of City stormwater requirements.
   17.   “Impervious surface” means surfaces (roads, sidewalks, driveways, and
parking lots) that are covered by impenetrable materials such as asphalt,
concrete, brick, and stone, rooftops as well as soils compacted by urban
development.
   18.   “Iowa Stormwater Management Manual” (ISWMM) means the current Iowa
Stormwater Management Manual publication, by whatever name, as amended from
time to time by Iowa Department of Natural Resources, and which recommends
stormwater management guidelines and uniform sizing criteria and BMPs designed
to address said guidelines.
   19.   “Land disturbance activity” means any activity which changes the
volume or peak flow discharge rate of rainfall runoff from the land surface.
This may include the grading, digging, cutting, scraping, or excavating of
soil, placement of fill materials, paving, construction, substantial removal of
vegetation, tree clearing, or any activity which bares soil or rock or involves
the diversion or piping of any natural or man-made watercourse.
   20.   “Low impact development” means an approach to stormwater management
that attempts to mimic pre-development conditions by compensating for losses of
rainfall abstraction through infiltration, evapotranspiration, surface storage,
and increased travel time to reduce excess runoff.
   21.   “Landowner” means the legal or beneficial owner of land, including
those holding the right to purchase or lease the land, or any other person
holding proprietary rights in the land.
   22.   “Maintenance agreement” means a legally recorded document that acts as
a property deed restriction, and which provides for long-term maintenance of
stormwater BMPs.
   23.   “Native vegetation” refers to vegetation originating naturally in this
region of the State. Native vegetation is not to be confused with all existing
vegetation. Area preserved in native vegetation shall not contain noxious or
invasive weeds as identified by Chapter 317.1A of the Code of Iowa.
   24.   “Overbank flood protection” means providing on-site stormwater
detention to limit runoff peak flows rates from the five-year recurrence
interval storm event to prevent downstream surcharge of conveyance systems and
reduce overbank flooding. At the site development level, this can be
accomplished by providing detention practices with multi-stage outlets that
control the outflow from these events to pre-development conditions.
   25.   “Pre-development” means the nature of the site prior to development
intended for stormwater calculations, existing conditions.
   26.   “Redevelopment” means any manmade change to a previously developed
site, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations whether
as a single site or part of a larger common plan of development.
   27.   “Stormwater management” means the use of BMPs that are designed in
accordance with City stormwater requirements to reduce stormwater runoff
pollutant loads, discharge volumes, peak flow discharge rates, and detrimental
changes in stream temperature that affect water quality and habitat.
   28.   “Stormwater management plan” means the plan produced by a Professional
Engineer (P.E.) licensed in the State demonstrating how stormwater management
will be accomplished by a development.
   29.   “Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan” (SWPPP) means a plan that is
designed to minimize the accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site
during construction activities.
   30.   “Iowa Stormwater Management Manual (ISWMM)” means the current Iowa
Stormwater Management Manual publication, by whatever name, as amended from
time to time by Iowa Department of Natural Resources.
   31.   “Unified sizing criteria” means an integrated approach to managing
stormwater runoff quality and quantity by addressing the adverse impacts of
stormwater runoff from development. The intent is to comprehensively manage
stormwater to remove pollutants and improve water quality, prevent downstream
streambank and channel erosion, reduce downstream overbank flooding, and safely
convey and reduce runoff from extreme storm events.
   32.   “Water quality volume” means the runoff resulting from rainfall depth
of one point two five inches. By managing these storms, many of the “first
flush” pollutants of concern will be effectively managed on-site.
161.06   PERMIT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Permit Required. No landowner or developer shall receive any of the
building, grading, or other land development permits required for land
disturbance activities without first meeting the requirements of this chapter
prior to commencing the proposed activity.
   2.   Application Requirements.
      A.   Unless specifically exempted by this chapter, any landowner or
developer desiring a permit for a land disturbance activity shall submit to the
City a permit application on a form provided for that purpose.
      B.   Unless otherwise exempted by this chapter, a permit application must
be accompanied by the following in order that the permit application be
considered:
         (1)   A Stormwater Management Concept Plan;
         (2)   A maintenance agreement; and
         (3)   A non-refundable permit review fee.
      C.   The Stormwater Management Concept Plan and maintenance agreement
shall be prepared to meet the requirements of this chapter, and fees shall be
those established by the City annually or more often by separate ordinance or
resolution.
   3.   Application Review Fees. The fee for review of any land development
application shall be based on the amount of land to be disturbed at the site;
the fee structure shall be established by City, and said fees shall be paid
prior to the issuance of any applicable City permits. All such revenue shall be
credited to a City budgetary category to support the administration of this
chapter.
   4.   Application Procedure.
      A.   All development or redevelopment projects shall begin with a pre-
application meeting with the City staff. At said pre-application meeting, City
staff will discuss the proposed project with the developer or developer
representatives and will review preliminary information regarding stormwater
management as indicated on the City’s Stormwater Management Plan Review
Checklist.
      B.   Applications for Land Disturbance Activity Permits must be filed for
review with the office of the Clerk on any regular business day.
      C.   Permit applications shall include the following:
         (1)   Two copies of the Stormwater Management Concept Plan;
         (2)   Two copies of the maintenance agreement, and
         (3)   Any required review fees.
      D.   The City shall make a determination regarding the completeness of a
permit application within 10 business days of the receipt of the application
and notify the applicant in writing if the application is not complete,
including the reasons the application was deemed incomplete.
      E.   Within 15 business days of the receipt of a complete permit
application, including all documents as required by this chapter, City shall
inform the applicant whether the application, plan, and maintenance agreement
are approved or disapproved by the Enforcement Officer.
      F.   If the permit application, Stormwater Management Concept Plan, or
maintenance agreement are disapproved, the applicant may revise the Stormwater
Management Concept Plan or agreement. If additional information is submitted,
the City shall have 15 business days from the date the additional information
is received to inform the applicant that the Stormwater Management Concept Plan
and maintenance agreement are either approved or disapproved.
      G.   If the permit application, Stormwater Management Final Plan, and
maintenance agreement are approved by City, all appropriate land disturbance
activity permits shall be issued.
      H.   Permit Duration. Permits issued under this section shall be valid
from the date of issuance through the date City notifies the permit holder that
all stormwater BMPs have passed the final inspection required under permit
conditions.
161.07   WAIVERS.
Every applicant shall provide for stormwater management as required by this
chapter, unless a written request is filed to waive implementation of BMPs, in
whole or in part, and such waiver is granted. Requests to waive implementation
of BMPs, in whole or in part, shall be submitted to City for approval.
   1.   A waiver of BMPs required by this chapter may be granted provided that
at least one of the following conditions is established by applicant based on
authoritative written evidence satisfactory to City:
      A.   The proposed development is not likely to impair attainment of the
objectives of this chapter.
      B.   Alternative minimum requirements for on-site management of
stormwater have been established in a Stormwater Management Final Plan that has
been approved by City and fully implemented.
      C.   Provisions are made to manage stormwater by an off-site facility
within the same watershed and that has been approved by the City. The off-site
facility is required to be in place, to be designed and adequately sized to
provide a level of stormwater control that is equal to or greater than that
which would be afforded by on-site practices, and there is, in the City’s sole
judgment, a responsible entity legally obligated to monitor the performance of
and maintain the efficiency of stormwater BMPs in accordance with a written and
recorded maintenance agreement.
      D.   In instances where one of the above conditions is established, the
applicant must further establish by authoritative written evidence satisfactory
to City that the partial waiver will not result in any of the following impacts
to downstream waterways:
         (1)   Deterioration of existing culverts, bridges, dams, and other
structures; or
         (2)   Degradation of biological functions or habitat; or
         (3)   Accelerated stream bank or streambed erosion or siltation; or
         (4)   Increased threat of flood damage to public health, life, or
property.
   2.   If the City finds that a waiver is appropriate because implementation
of no on-site stormwater BMPs is feasible due to the natural or existing
physical characteristics of a site, or that one of the conditions specified in
Subsection 1 above cannot be established to a certainty, or that any one or
more of the impacts to downstream waterways specified above cannot be entirely
averted, the applicant shall execute a binding written agreement to accomplish
one or more of the following mitigation measures selected by City:
      A.   The purchase and donation of privately owned lands, or the grant of
an easement to be dedicated for preservation or reconstruction of native
ecosystems of lands strategically located in the watershed consistent with the
purposes of this chapter, of a sufficient quantity to enable City or others to
achieve City stormwater requirements with respect to a number of cubic feet of
annual stormwater equivalent to the estimated number of cubic feet of annual
stormwater that will not achieve City stormwater requirements as a consequence
of the waiver.
      B.   The creation of one or more stormwater BMPs on previously developed
properties, public or private, that currently lack stormwater BMPs, having a
capacity to achieve City stormwater requirements with respect to a number of
cubic feet of annual stormwater equivalent to the estimated number of cubic
feet of annual stormwater that will not achieve City stormwater requirements as
a consequence of the waiver.
      C.   Monetary contributions (fee in lieu) to fund stormwater management
activities such as research and studies (e.g., regional wetland delineation
studies, stream monitoring studies for water quality and macroinvertebrates,
stream flow monitoring, threatened and endangered species studies, hydrologic
studies, monitoring of stormwater BMPs, and stream corridor stabilization
practices). The monetary contribution required shall be in accordance with a
fee schedule (unless the developer and the stormwater authority agree on a
greater alternate contribution) established by City, based on the estimated
cost savings to the developer resulting from the waiver and the estimated
future costs to City to achieve City stormwater requirements with respect to a
number of cubic feet of annual stormwater equivalent to the estimated number of
cubic feet of annual stormwater that will not achieve City stormwater
requirements as a consequence of the waiver. All of the monetary contributions
shall be credited to an appropriate capital improvements program project and
shall be made by the developer prior to the issuance of any building permit for
the development.
      D.   Dedication of land or granting of an easement by the applicant of a
value equivalent to the cost to City of the construction of an off-site
stormwater management facility sufficient to achieve City stormwater
requirements with respect to a number of cubic feet of annual stormwater
equivalent to the estimated number of cubic feet of annual stormwater that will
not achieve City stormwater requirements as a consequence of the waiver. The
agreement shall be entered into by the applicant and City prior to the
recording of plats or, if no record plat is required, prior to the issuance of
the building permit.
      E.   Factors that may generate waivers:
         (1)   Shallow bedrock.
         (2)   High groundwater.
         (3)   Hotspots or contaminated soils.
         (4)   City owned construction that was designed prior to 2019.
161.08   STORMWATER STANDARDS.
Unless granted a waiver by the City, applicants shall meet the stormwater
standards established in this chapter.
   1.   The site design shall provide on-site treatment during construction and
post-construction to ensure no increases over pre-development conditions for
the one-year, 24-hour storm event; the five-year, 24-hour storm event; and the
100-year, 24-hour storm event.
   2.   The site design shall provide for on-site water quality treatment to
reduce potential increases in downstream water pollution. Practices or
techniques shall be employed that capture and treat runoff from a one point two
five-inch rainfall event, as further defined within the ISWMM.
This standard would address approximately 90 percent of the rainfall events
that occur in Central Iowa.
   3.   For the purposes of channel protection and as urban developments occur,
some of the largest increases in runoff rate and volume (by percentage
increase) occur during the smaller, more frequently occurring storm events. For
this reason, practices or techniques shall be employed that provide extended
detention of the one-year, 24-hour storm event, with release rates established
as per methods defined within the ISWMM manual to provide a minimum drawdown
period of 24 hours. This standard would address approximately 98 percent of the
rainfall events that occur in Central Iowa.
   4.   For the purposes of overbank protection and to minimize surcharge of
downstream storm sewer systems and reduce the frequency of flash flooding along
urban streams and tributaries, practices, and techniques shall be employed that
limit allowable peak release rates that are anticipated to occur post-
development during the two-year and five-year 24-hour storm events to levels no
greater than those expected to occur from pre-development conditions for a
given site from an equivalent storm event (e.g. the post-development release
rate from five-year storm event will be no greater than the pre-development
release rate from a five-year storm event).
   5.   For the purposes of extreme protection and to reduce the frequency and
impacts caused by larger flood events practices and techniques shall be
employed that limit allowable peak release rates that are anticipated to occur
post-development during the 10-, 25-, 50- and 100-year, 24-hour storm events to
levels no greater than those expected to occur from pre-development conditions
on a given site from a five-year, 24-hour storm event (e.g. the post-
development release rate from a 100-year storm event will be no greater than
the pre-development release rate from a five-year storm event).
   6.   The site design shall retain on-site for recharge a portion of the
water quality treatment volume calculated as a soil specific recharge factor
multiplied by the volumetric runoff coefficient multiplied by the area and all
divided by 12. The soil specific recharge factor is given as 0.51 for
Hydrologic Soil Group (HSG) A soils, 0.34 for HSG B soils, 0.17 for HSG C
soils, and zero point zero eight for HSG D soils. The volumetric runoff
coefficient is calculated as 0.05 + 0.009 multiplied by the site impervious
percentage. See the Iowa Stormwater Management Manual for additional
clarification on the calculation. For areas of the site where there is no
feasible way to achieve the recharge requirement, other options may be
considered by the City if the options meet the performance standard listed for
sites with restrictions in Subparagraph 4 below.
   7.   Applicant shall fully attempt to comply with the standards in
Subsections 1 through 3 above. Options considered and presented shall examine
the merits of relocating project elements to address varying soil conditions
and other constraints across the site. If full compliance is not possible, the
following flexible treatment options shall be used:
      A.   Applicant shall document the flexible treatment options sequence
starting with Alternative #1. If Alternative #1 cannot be met, then Alternative
#2 shall be analyzed. If Alternative #2 cannot be met, then Alternative #3
shall be met. When all of the conditions are fulfilled within an alternative,
this sequence is completed.
      B.   Recharge techniques considered shall include infiltration, reuse,
and rainwater harvesting, and canopy interception and evapotranspiration or
additional techniques included in the Iowa Stormwater Management Manual.
      C.   Higher priority shall be given to BMPs that include volume
reduction. Secondary preference is to employ filtration techniques, followed by
rate control BMPs.
      D.   Factors to be considered for each alternative will include:
         (1)   Karst or Coal geology.
         (2)   Shallow bedrock.
         (3)   High groundwater.
         (4)   Hotspots or contaminated soils.
         (5)   Excessive cost.
         (6)   Poor soils (infiltration rates that are too low or too high,
problematic urban soils).
      E.   Alternative #1: Applicant attempts to comply with the following
conditions:
         (1)   Achieve recharge to the maximum extent practicable, and
         (2)   Treat by means of a filtration-based stormwater treatment
facility, the water quality volume determined in standard two above in order to
provide removal of fine particles, and
         (3)   Options considered and presented shall examine the merits of
relocating project elements to address varying soil conditions and other
constraints across the site.
      F.   Alternative #2: Applicant attempts to comply with the following
conditions:
         (1)   Achieve recharge to the maximum extent practicable, and
         (2)   Remove 80 percent of the annual total suspended solids load, and
         (3)   Options considered and presented shall examine the merits of
relocating project elements to address varying soil conditions and other
constraints across the site.
      G.   Alternative #3: Off-Site Treatment. Off-site mitigation, as outlined
in Section 161.07(2) of the required treatment volume that cannot be provided
on site can be used to protect Walnut Creek or North Walnut Creek.
   8.   The site shall be designed to provide vegetated buffers for water
quality protection adjacent to receiving channels and waters. Buffers shall
commence at “top of bank,” or at the delineated boundary of the water body.
Buffer width as based on land use and are as follows:
      A.   Residential   30 feet.
      B.   Industrial   50 feet.
      C.   Mid or High Density Residential and Commercial   50 feet.
      D.   Redevelopment of infill parcels that are surrounded by existing
development shall be considered on a case-by-case basis. The intent of this
section of chapter is not to make existing lots undevelopable.
   9.   The site shall be designed using the better site design process. Better
site design involves techniques applied early in the design process to preserve
natural areas, reduce impervious cover, distribute runoff, and use pervious
areas to more effectively treat stormwater runoff. Site design should address
open space protection, impervious cover minimization, runoff distribution and
minimization, and runoff utilization through considerations such as:
      A.   Open space Protection and Restoration.
         (1)   Conservation of existing natural areas (upland and wetland).
         (2)   Reforestation.
         (3)   Re-establishment of prairies.
         (4)   Restoration of wetlands.
         (5)   Establishment or protection of stream, shoreline, and wetland
buffers.
         (6)   Re-establishment of native vegetation into the landscape.
      B.   Reduction of Impervious Cover.
         (1)   Reduce new impervious cover through redevelopment of existing
sites and use of existing roadways, trails etc.
         (2)   Minimize street width, parking space size, driveway length,
sidewalk width.
         (3)   Reduce impervious surface footprint (e.g., two-story buildings,
parking ramp).
      C.   Distribution and Minimization of Runoff.
         (1)   Utilize vegetated areas for stormwater treatment (e.g., parking
lot islands, vegetated areas along property boundaries, front and rear yards,
building landscaping).
         (2)   Direct impervious surface runoff to vegetated areas or to
designed treatment areas (roofs, parking, driveways drain to pervious areas,
not directly to storm sewer or other conveyances).
         (3)   Encourage infiltration and soil storage of runoff through grass
channels, soil compost amendment, vegetated swales, rain gardens, etc.
         (4)   Plant vegetation that does not require irrigation beyond natural
rainfall and runoff from the site.
      D.   Runoff Utilization.
         (1)   Capture and store runoff for use for irrigation in areas where
irrigation is necessary.
   10.   The following general criteria shall be incorporated in site design
for stormwater runoff to protect surface and groundwater and other natural
resources:
      A.   Reduce impacts on water.
      B.   Protect soils.
      C.   Preserve vegetation.
      D.   Decrease runoff volume.
      E.   Decrease erosion and sedimentation.
      F.   Decrease flow frequency, duration, and peak runoff rates.
      G.   Increase infiltration (groundwater recharge).
      H.   Maintain existing flow patterns.
      I.   Reduce time to peak flows by increasing the time of concentration to
and through storm sewers.
      J.   Store stormwater runoff on-site.
      K.   Avoid channel erosion.
   11.   Topsoil Requirements.
      A.   Preservation. No topsoil shall be permanently removed from any
construction site in accordance with the Iowa Department of Natural Resources
NPDES General Permit #2. Topsoil from pre-development pervious areas should be
maintained on-site and respread in the post-development conditions. The City
may require, at developers’ expense, soil borings to measure the pre-
development and post-development topsoil depths to ensure compliance.
      B.   Compaction. For the purposes of compliance with the Iowa Department
of Natural Resources NDPES General Permit #2 requirements, the minimum standard
for “minimizing soil compaction” shall be defined as working the soil prior to
seeding or sodding such at a penetrometer can be inserted into the upper six-
inch with less force than 200 psi. As an alternative to the penetrometer test,
a soil with a bulk density of less than one point six grams or cubic centimeter
shall be deemed compliant with this requirement.
161.09   APPROVAL OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT CONCEPT PLAN.
No application for development will be accepted unless it includes a Stormwater
Management Concept Plan detailing in concept how runoff and associated water
quality impacts resulting from the development will be controlled or managed.
The Stormwater Management Concept Plan shall meet the following requirements:
   1.   Be prepared by a licensed professional engineer or landscape architect
or individual credentialed in a manner satisfactory to the City.
   2.   Indicate whether stormwater will be managed on-site or off-site and, if
on-site, the general location and type of practices BMPs, with clear citations
to the Iowa Stormwater Management Manual.
   3.   Include sufficient information (e.g., maps, hydrologic calculations,
etc.) to evaluate the environmental characteristics of the project site, the
potential impacts of all proposed development of the site, both present and
future, on the water resources, and the effectiveness and acceptability of the
stormwater BMPs proposed for managing stormwater generated at the project site,
refer to Section 161.06(4). The intent of this conceptual planning process is
to determine the type of stormwater BMPs necessary for the proposed project and
ensure adequate planning for management of stormwater runoff from future
development. To accomplish this goal, the following information shall also be
included in the Stormwater Management Concept Plan:
      A.   A soil management plan as defined by the Iowa Stormwater Management
Manual shall be provided and include a technical assessment of soils that
identifies the soil series and the site limitations based on soils data
provided in the Web County Soil Survey hosted by Natural Resources Conservation
Service (NRCS). It may only be used if soils have not been highly disturbed.
Soil borings shall be included when necessary to confirm suitable site
conditions for placement of buildings with basements and related structures,
especially in areas with hydric soils and shallow depth to groundwater. If a
stormwater BMP depends on the hydraulic properties of soils, then the
assessment shall include soil borings and measurements of percolation or
infiltration rates. The number and location of required soil borings or soil
test sites shall be determined based on what is needed to determine the
suitability and distribution of soil types present at the location of the BMP.
      Borings may range from a minimum of five feet to 20 feet below subgrade
depending on the size of the BMP.
      This information shall be used to provide a summary of the associated
risks and potential for adequate drainage related to infiltration practices,
groundwater mounding, and basement flooding. Consultation with a Certified
Professional Soil Scientist, Soil Classifier, or Geotechnical Engineer may be
necessary or required.
      B.   A map, or maps, indicating the location of existing and proposed
buildings, roads, parking areas, utilities, structural stormwater management,
and sediment and erosion BMPs. The maps will also clearly show proposed land
use with tabulation of the percentage of surface area to be adapted to various
uses; drainage patterns; locations of utilities, roads, and easements; and the
limits of clearing and grading. A written description of the site plan and
justification of proposed changes in pre-development conditions may also be
required. A copy of the current SWPPP may satisfy this requirement.
      C.   Sufficient engineering analysis to show that the proposed BMPs are
capable of achieving City stormwater requirements for the site in compliance
with this chapter.
      D.   A written or graphic inventory of the natural resources at the site
and surrounding area as it exists prior to the commencement of the project and
a description of the watershed and its relation to the project site. This
description should include a discussion of soil conditions, forest cover,
topography, wetlands, and other native vegetative areas on the site. Particular
attention should be paid to environmentally sensitive BMPs that provide
particular opportunities or constraints for development.
      E.   Landscaping and stabilization shall be accomplished to prevent
stormwater violations or impairment of BMPs. In addition, a landscaping plan
must be submitted with the final as-built drawings describing the vegetation
stabilization and management techniques to be used at the site after
construction is completed. This plan will include the entity responsible for
vegetation at the site and practices that will be used to ensure adequate
vegetative cover.
      F.   A written description of the required maintenance burden for any
proposed BMPs.
      G.   The City may also require a concept plan to consider the maximum
development potential of a site under existing zoning, regardless of whether
the applicant presently intends to develop the site to its maximum potential.
      H.   For development occurring on a previously developed site, an
applicant shall be required to include within the Stormwater Management Concept
Plan BMPs for controlling existing stormwater runoff discharges from the site
in accordance with this chapter to the maximum extent practicable. The
Stormwater Management Concept Plan shall be referred for comment to all other
interested agencies, and any comments must be addressed in a Stormwater
Management Final Plan.
161.10   APPROVAL OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FINAL PLAN.
No Building, Grading, or Sediment Control Permit shall be issued until a
satisfactory Stormwater Management Final Plan (or a waiver thereof) shall have
undergone a review and been approved by the City after determining that the
plan or waiver is consistent with the requirements of this chapter. After
review of the Stormwater Management Concept Plan, and modifications to that
plan as deemed necessary by City, a Stormwater Management Final Plan must be
submitted to the City for approval. The Stormwater Management Final Plan, in
addition to the information included in the Stormwater Management Concept Plan,
shall:
   1.   Be prepared by a licensed professional engineer or landscape architect
or individual credentialed in a manner satisfactory to the City.
   2.   Indicate whether stormwater will be managed on-site or off-site and, if
on-site, the general location and type of practices, with clear citations to
the Iowa Stormwater Management Manual.
   3.   Include a signed and dated certification under penalty of perjury by
the preparer of the Stormwater Management Final Plan that it complies with all
requirements of this chapter and the SUDAS Design Manual, meets the submittal
requirements outlined in the Iowa Stormwater Management Manual, is designed to
achieve City stormwater requirements, and that City is entitled to rely upon
the certification as due diligence on the part of City.
   4.   The Stormwater Management Final Plan shall also include:
      A.   A detailed summary of how and why the Stormwater Management Final
Plan differs, if at all, from the Stormwater Management Concept Plan previously
submitted.
      B.   Contact information, including, but not limited to, the name,
address, and telephone number of all persons having a legal interest in the
property and the tax reference number and parcel number of the property or
properties affected.
      C.   Topographic base map, consisting of a one inch equals 200 feet
topographic base map, of the site which extends a minimum of 300 feet beyond
the limits of the proposed development and indicates existing surface water
drainage including streams, ponds, culverts, ditches, and wetlands; current
land use including all existing structures; locations of utilities, roads, and
easements; and significant natural and manmade features not otherwise shown. A
minimum of two feet contours shall be shown on-site and two feet contours
outside of the proposed site.
      D.   Hydrologic and hydraulic design calculations for the pre-development
and post-development conditions for the design storms specified in the Iowa
Stormwater Management Manual. Such calculations shall include:
         (1)   Description of the design storm frequency, intensity, and
duration;
         (2)   Time of concentration;
         (3)   Soil curve numbers or runoff coefficients;
         (4)   Peak runoff rates and total runoff volumes for each watershed
area;
         (5)   Infiltration rates, where applicable;
         (6)   Culvert capacities;
         (7)   Flow velocities;
         (8)   Data on the increase in rate and volume of runoff for the design
storms referenced as referenced in the NOAA Atlas 14, Volumes 8 and 9 (April
2013); and
         (9)   Documentation of sources for all computation methods and field
test results.
      E.   If a stormwater BMP depends on the hydrologic properties of soils
(e.g., infiltration basins), then a soils report shall be submitted. The soils
report shall be based on on-site boring logs or soil pit profiles. The number
and location of required soil borings or soil sites shall be determined based
on what is needed to determine the suitability and distribution of soil types
present at the location of the BMP.
      F.   A maintenance and repair plan for all stormwater BMPs including
detailed maintenance and repair procedures to ensure their continued efficient
function. These plans will identify the parts or components of a stormwater BMP
that need to be maintained and the equipment and skills or training necessary.
Provisions for the periodic review and evaluation of the effectiveness of the
maintenance program and the need for revisions or additional maintenance
procedures shall be included in the plan.
      G.   A detailed landscaping plan for management of vegetation at the site
after construction is finished, including who will be responsible for the
maintenance of vegetation at the site and what practices will be employed to
ensure that adequate vegetative cover is preserved. This plan must be prepared
by a registered landscape architect, landscape designer, or by the soil and
water conservation district.
      H.   Proof of permanent recorded maintenance easements that will ensure
access to all stormwater BMPs at the site for the purpose of inspection and
repair. These easements will be recorded with the Stormwater Management Final
Plan and will remain in effect even with transfer of title to the property.
      I.   Proof of a recorded maintenance agreement binding on all subsequent
owners of land served by stormwater BMPs to ensure maintenance and repair in
accordance with the specifications of this chapter.
      J.   Copies of all existing SWPPPS (as required by the City’s COSESCO
ordinance) current as of the date of submission of the Stormwater Management
Final Plan for all construction activities related to implementing any on-site
stormwater BMPs.
      K.   Proof that the applicant has acquired all other applicable
environmental permits for the site, or that no other such permits are required,
prior to submission of the Stormwater Management Final Plan to the City.
      L.   For lot development impacted by stormwater BMPs and conveyance
features:
         (1)   The permit holder shall provide to the Municipal Engineer, or
designated City representative, an Elevation Certificate that is signed and
sealed by a land surveyor, engineer, or architect authorized by law to certify
elevation information.
         (2)   The Elevation Certificate shall certify that the protected level
(lowest opening or protective flood barrier that achieves the same result) of
all buildings shall be a minimum of three feet above the 100-year water surface
elevation of stormwater BMPs.
         (3)   Building foundations adjacent to stormwater BMPs or stormwater
infrastructure (i.e. conveyance features, inlets, manholes) shall be three feet
above the 100-year water surface elevation.
      M.   Accommodating Upstream Drainage Areas. Any necessary and appropriate
stormwater BMPs shall be designed to accommodate runoff from any upstream area
potentially draining into or through the area to be subdivided, whether such
area is inside or outside the area to be subdivided. Such design shall assume
that the upstream area upon development or redevelopment will be regulated such
that volume of surface water runoff shall be equal to the runoff from the
current land use condition.
      N.   Protecting Downstream Drainage Areas. Any development shall provide
for mitigation of any overload condition reasonably anticipated on any existing
downstream stormwater BMPs outside the area to be subdivided, provided that the
development or use of the area to be subdivided creates or contributes to such
condition.
161.11   PERFORMANCE SECURITY OR BOND.
   1.   The City shall require the submittal of an installation performance
security or bond prior to issuance of a permit in order to ensure that the
stormwater BMPs are installed by the permit holder as required by the approved
Stormwater Management Final Plan.
   2.   The amount of the installation performance security or bond shall be
the total estimated construction cost of the stormwater BMPs approved under the
permit, plus 25 percent. The installation performance security or bond shall
contain forfeiture provisions for failure to complete work specified in the
Stormwater Management Final Plan.
   3.   The installation performance security or bond shall be released in full
only upon submission of “as-built plans” of all stormwater BMPs specified in
the Stormwater Management Final Plan and written certification by a
professional engineer that the stormwater BMPs have been installed in
accordance with the approved Stormwater Management Final Plan and other
applicable provisions of this chapter. The City will make a final inspection of
stormwater BMPs to ensure compliance with the approved Stormwater Management
Final Plan and the provisions of this chapter. Provisions for a partial pro
rata release of the installation performance security or bond based on the
completion of various development stages can be made at the discretion of City.
   4.   The installation performance security or bond shall inure only to the
benefit of the City for purposes of completing, modifying, or correcting the
stormwater BMPs to comply with this chapter.
161.12   MAINTENANCE PERFORMANCE SECURITY OR BOND.
   1.   The City shall also require the submittal of a maintenance performance
security or bond prior to issuance of a permit in order to insure that the
stormwater BMPs are maintained in an effective state for a minimum of 10 years.
   2.   This maintenance performance security or bond may be released by the
City upon a showing satisfactory to the City that:
      A.   The permit holder has assigned to another bona fide, financially
responsible legal entity, such as a homeowners’ or similar organization
organized under State law, responsibility for maintenance of the stormwater
BMPs in an effective state for the balance of the 10-year period after
assignment; and
      B.   Said assignee has fully accepted such responsibility in a written
document that qualifies for recording and has been recorded in the County
Recorder’s office under State law; and
      C.   Said assignee posts a substitute maintenance performance security or
bond subject to release at the end of the initial 10-year period upon a further
showing by the assignee that the stormwater BMPs are, in the City’s sole
judgment, still reasonably effective.
   3.   This maintenance performance security or bond shall inure only to the
benefit of the City to ensure the proper maintenance of the stormwater BMPs.
   4.   This maintenance and performance security or bond may be issued on an
annual basis, provided that there is no lapse in coverage.
   5.   The maintenance performance security bond amount shall be for 25
percent of the total cost of the overall permitted project, unless otherwise
specified by the City.
161.13   CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION.
   1.   The applicant must notify the City in advance before the commencement
of construction. Regular inspections of construction of the stormwater BMPs
shall be conducted by City or City’s designated representative. Inspections
will be conducted before any land disturbing activity begins, at the time of
footing inspections, at the completion of the project; and prior to the release
of financial securities. All inspections shall be documented, and written
reports prepared that contain the following information:
      A.   The date and location of the inspection; and
      B.   Whether construction is in compliance with the approved Stormwater
Management Concept Plan; and
      C.   Variations, if any, from the approved Stormwater Management Concept
Plan.
   2.   If any violations are found, the applicant shall be notified in writing
of the nature of the violation and the required corrective actions. No
additional work shall proceed until any violations are corrected and all work
previously completed has received approval by City.
   3.   After construction is completed, applicants are required to submit
actual “as-built” drawings satisfactory to City for any stormwater BMPs located
on-site. The drawings must show the final design specifications for all
stormwater BMPs and must be certified by a professional engineer. A final
inspection by City is required before the release of the installation
performance security or bond can occur.
   4.   Landscaping and stabilization shall be accomplished to prevent
violation of City stormwater requirements or impairment of BMPs. In addition, a
landscaping plan must be submitted with the final as-built drawings describing
the vegetative stabilization and management techniques to be used at a site
after construction is completed. This plan will explain not only how the site
will be stabilized after construction, but who will be responsible for the
maintenance of vegetation at the site and what practices will be employed to
ensure that adequate vegetative cover is preserved. This plan must be prepared
by a registered landscape architect, landscape designer, or by the local soil
and water conservation district, and must be approved prior to receiving a
permit. This is by reference incorporated into the site plan review process.
161.14   MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF STORMWATER BMPS.
The applicant or owner of every site or an assignee qualified pursuant to
Section
161.12 shall be responsible for maintaining as-built stormwater BMPs in an
effective state as determined, in the sole judgment of City, in perpetuity or
until further redevelopment of the site.
   1.   Maintenance and Repair Easement. Prior to the issuance of any permit
for development involving any stormwater BMP, the applicant or owner of the
site must execute a maintenance and repair easement agreement that shall be
binding on all subsequent owners of land served by the stormwater BMP.
   The agreement shall provide for access to the BMP and the land it serves at
reasonable times for periodic inspection by City, or City’s designee, and for
regular or special assessments of property owners to ensure that the BMP is
maintained in proper working condition to meet City stormwater requirements.
The easement agreement shall be recorded by City at the expense of the permit
holder or property owners.
   2.   The applicant or owner of every site or an assignee qualified pursuant
to Section
161.14(1) shall be responsible for providing as-built drawings at the
completion of the project and maintaining as-built stormwater BMPs in an
effective state as determined in the sole judgement of City.
   3.   Maintenance Covenants.
      A.   Maintenance of all stormwater BMPs shall be ensured through the
creation of a formal maintenance covenant that must be approved by the City and
recorded prior to the Stormwater Management Final Plan approval. The creation
of these maintenance covenants are the responsibility of the property owner or
their designated agent. As part of the covenant, a schedule shall be developed
for when and how often maintenance will occur to ensure proper function of the
stormwater BMPs. The covenant shall also include plans for periodic inspections
to ensure proper performance of the BMPs between scheduled cleanouts.
      B.   The City, in lieu of a maintenance covenant, may, but is not
required to, accept dedication of any existing or future stormwater BMP to
include City responsibility for maintenance and repair, provided that:
         (1)   The maintenance and repair of such element will not impose an
undue burden on other City taxpayers who enjoy little if any benefit from the
BMP;
         (2)   The BMP meets all the requirements of this chapter; and
         (3)   The dedication includes adequate and perpetual access and
sufficient area, by easement or otherwise, for inspection and regular
maintenance.
By mutual agreement of the City and the party responsible for maintenance for a
stormwater BMP, the City may receive an annual payment to cover costs of
maintenance and assume maintenance responsibilities. Said payment will be
calculated to cover the expected costs of maintenance.
   4.   Requirements for Maintenance Covenants. All stormwater BMPs must
undergo, at the minimum, an annual inspection to document maintenance and
repair needs and ensure compliance with the requirements of this chapter and
accomplishment of its purposes. These needs may include, but are not limited
to, removal of silt, litter, and other debris from all stormwater treatment and
conveyance facilities, including ponds, infiltration basins, rain gardens,
catch basins, inlets and drainage pipes, grass cutting and vegetation removal,
and necessary replacement of landscape vegetation. Any maintenance or repair
needs detected must be corrected by the developer or entity responsible under a
written maintenance agreement within 30 days, and the inspection and
maintenance requirement may be increased as deemed necessary to ensure proper
functioning of the stormwater BMPs. In the event the identified maintenance or
repair cannot be completed within 30 days of notice, the responsible party must
contact the City with 30 days of notice to explain why repair or maintenance
cannot be completed within 30 days and provide a plan for completing repair or
maintenance.
   5.   Inspection of Stormwater BMPs. Inspection programs may be established
on any reasonable basis, including, but not limited to:
      A.   Routine inspections;
      B.   Random inspections;
      C.   Inspections based upon complaints or other notice of possible
violations;
      D.   Inspection of drainage basins or areas identified as higher than
typical sources of sediment or other contaminants or pollutants;
      E.   Inspections of businesses or industries of a type associated with
higher than usual discharges of contaminants or pollutants or with discharges
of a type which are more likely than the typical discharge to cause violations
of State or federal water or sediment quality standards or the NPDES Stormwater
Permit; and
      F.   Joint inspections with other agencies inspecting under environmental
or safety laws.
Inspections may include but are not limited to: reviewing maintenance and
repair records; sampling discharges, surface water, groundwater, and material
or water in stormwater BMPs, and evaluating the condition of stormwater BMPs.
   6.   Right of Entry for Inspection. When any new stormwater BMP is installed
on private property, or when any new connection is made between private
property and a public stormwater management facility, sanitary sewer or
combined sewer, the property owner shall grant to City the right to enter the
property at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner for the purpose of
inspection. This includes the right to enter a property when City has a
reasonable basis to believe that a violation of this chapter is occurring or
has occurred, and to enter when necessary for abatement of a public nuisance or
correction of a violation of this chapter.
   7.   Records of Installation and Maintenance and Repair Activities. Parties
responsible for the operation and maintenance of stormwater BMPs shall submit
to the City an annual maintenance and inspection report, including all records
of the installation and of all maintenance and repairs conducted. These records
shall be made available to City during inspection of the facility and at other
reasonable times upon request. The City may also request an as-built drawing of
stormwater BMP to determine compliance with original design, if deemed
necessary by the City.
   8.   As-Built Drawings. At the time of final plat an as-built drawing will
be provided to the City for all stormwater BMPs. At such time as a developer
transfers control of stormwater BMPs to an HOA, the City or other responsible
party, the developer shall provide notice to the City and the City shall have
the right to confirm stormwater BMPs match the as-built provided at final plat
prior to transfer. A maintenance bond, agreement to complete, or letter of
credit shall be provided to the City for any required work to stormwater BMPs
to correct to as-built standard prior to transfer of ownership or
responsibility. After transfer of ownership or responsibility, the bond or
letter of credit will be released.
   9.   Failure to Maintain Stormwater BMPs. If a responsible party fails or
refuses to meet the requirements of the maintenance covenant or any provision
of this chapter, the City, after reasonable notice, may correct a violation by
performing all necessary work to place the BMP in proper working condition. In
the event that the stormwater BMP becomes a danger to public safety or public
health, the City shall notify the party responsible for maintenance of the
stormwater BMP in writing. Upon receipt of that notice, the responsible person
shall have 30 days to effect maintenance and repair of the stormwater BMP in an
approved manner. After proper notice, the City may assess, jointly and
severally, the owners of the stormwater BMP, or the property owners or the
parties responsible for maintenance under any applicable written agreement, for
the cost of repair work and any penalties; and the cost of the work shall be a
lien on the property, or prorated against the beneficial users of the property,
and may be placed on the tax bill and collected as ordinary taxes.
161.15   ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
Violation of any provision of this chapter may be enforced by civil action
including an action for injunctive relief. In any civil enforcement action,
administrative or judicial, the City shall be entitled to recover its
attorneys’ fees and costs from a person who is determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction to have violated this chapter.
   1.   The City may issue a stop work order for violation of any provision of
this chapter. The stop work order shall be applicable to the lot within the
development causing the violation and shall remain in effect until the
violation is corrected and a subsequent inspection completed. In the event a
building is completed and occupied when a violation occurs, the City will not
issue additional permits for that property.
   2.   Violation of any provision of this chapter may also be enforced as a
municipal infraction within the meaning of Section 364.22 of the Code of Iowa,
pursuant to Chapter 3.
   3.   Enforcement pursuant to this section shall be undertaken by City upon
the advice and consent of the City Attorney or other counsel employed by City.
   4.   Any violator may be required to restore land to its undisturbed
condition. In the event that restoration is not undertaken within a reasonable
time after notice, the City may take necessary corrective action, the cost of
which shall become a lien upon the property until paid.
   5.   Occupancy permits shall not be granted until all stormwater BMPs have
been inspected and approved by City.
161.16   APPEAL.
Administrative decisions by City staff and enforcement actions may be appealed
by the developer or property owner to the Council pursuant to the following
rules:
   1.   The appeal must be filed in writing with the Clerk within five business
days of the decision or enforcement action.
   2.   The written appeal shall specify in detail the action appealed from,
the errors allegedly made by the Enforcement Officer giving rise to the appeal,
a written summary of all oral and written testimony the applicant intends to
introduce at the hearing, including the names and addresses of all witnesses
the applicant intends to call, copies of all documents the applicant intends to
introduce at the hearing, and the relief requested.
   3.   The Enforcement Officer shall specify in writing the reasons for the
enforcement action, a written summary of all oral and written testimony the
Enforcement Officer intends to introduce at the hearing, including the names
and addresses of all witnesses the Enforcement Officer intends to call, and
copies of all documents the Enforcement Officer intends to introduce at the
hearing.
   4.   The Clerk shall notify the applicant and the Enforcement Officer by
ordinary mail and shall give public notice, in accordance with Chapter 21 of
the Code of Iowa, of the date, time, and place for the regular or special
meeting of the Council at which the hearing on the appeal shall occur. The
hearing shall be scheduled for a date not less than four or more than 20 days
after the filing of the appeal. The rules of evidence and procedure and the
standard of proof to be applied shall be the same as provided by Chapter 17A of
the Code of Iowa. The applicant may be represented by counsel at the
applicant’s expense. The Enforcement Officer may be represented by the City
Attorney or by an attorney designated by the Council at City expense.
   5.   The decision of the Council shall be rendered in writing and may be
appealed to the Iowa District Court.
CHAPTER 163
DEMOLITION AND RAZE PERMIT
 
163.01 Demolition Permit Required     163.08 Removal and Disposal
163.02 Application for Permit         163.09 Disconnection of Sewer and Water
                                      163.10 Plugging Sewers for Abandoned,
163.03 Demolition with Explosives     Razed, Demolished, or Destroyed
                                      Buildings
163.04 Abatement Ordered - Bond       163.11 Right of the City to Enter Upon
Required                              Premises in the Event of Noncompliance
163.05 Clearing and Leveling the Site 163.12 Miscellaneous Provisions
163.06 Fencing or Covering Excavation
of Building
163.07 Time Limit for Demolitions
 
163.01   DEMOLITION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   No building in the City can be demolished or razed until a permit
authorizing such work has been obtained from the Building Official.
   2.   No permit for the demolition of a building shall be issued other than
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, as well as in conformity
with the provisions of other laws and ordinances applicable to historic
preservation and to the demolition of buildings.
   3.   Except as provided in this section, a Demolition Permit that has
expired shall be null and void, and before any demolition work is subsequently
commenced, a new permit therefore shall be obtained. The fee for such permit
shall be at the same rate as the original permit.
   4.   If a Demolition Permit to remove an unsafe building or a building that
is the subject of a public nuisance action has expired, the Building Official
shall order the prompt removal of such structure, in accordance with all
requirements of this chapter. All of the costs attendant to this action,
including administrative costs, shall be either assessed against the property
or collected from the owner, unless otherwise directed by the Council.
163.02   APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   An application for demolition shall be made only by the person, partnership,
corporation, or realty trust which is the legal deed holder of the building at
the time of such application. The applicant must comply with all federal,
State, and local regulations pertaining to the disposal of hazardous wastes and
building demolition. The application must be made on the form provided by the
City. No permit for demolition of a building shall be granted until plans for
use or development of the site after demolition have been filed with the Zoning
Administrator and found to comply with all laws pertaining to the issuance of a
Building Permit and where applicable, a site plan, unless it is subject to a
public nuisance or unsafe building, all approvals necessary for the issuance of
such a Building Permit or Certificate of Occupancy including, without
limitation, any necessary zoning variances or special permits, must be granted
and all appeals from the granting of such approvals must be concluded, prior to
the issuance of a Demolition Permit under this section.
163.03   DEMOLITION WITH EXPLOSIVES.
A permit for the demolition of a building or structure by the use of explosives
may be issued by the Council subject to the following conditions, in addition
to those set forth in Section
163.02:
   1.   The applicant for a permit must demonstrate to the Council the need for
demolition by explosives rather than demolition by conventional means and must
demonstrate that demolition by explosives can be safely conducted at the
specific location requested;
   2.   The Building Official, Public Works Director, Fire Chief, and Police
Chief shall review the application and submit their opinions to the Council
concerning whether or not the demolition can be safely conducted, together with
any recommendations they may have;
   3.   The applicant shall pay the City in advance for reasonable expenses
that will be incurred by the City in furnishing necessary security and police
protection in the vicinity of the demolition site;
   4.   The applicant shall observe all applicable federal, State, and local
laws in the course of the demolition, including, but not limited to, the
following:
      A.   The applicable provisions of the Fire Prevention Code relating to
the storage, transportation, and use of explosives.
      B.   The rules and regulations of the United States Environmental
Protection Agency relating to the demolition of buildings or structures
containing asbestos materials or other hazardous air pollutants.
   5.   The applicant shall meet all other requirements of this chapter
relating to the demolition of structures or buildings; provided, however, that
if a conflict exists between the provisions of this subsection and other
sections of this Code, the provisions of this subsection shall be deemed to be
controlling;
   6.   The Council shall at any time have the authority to impose additional
requirements and safety precautions in the interest of the public health,
safety, and welfare;
   7.   Such other information as shall be reasonably required by the Building
Official.
163.04   ABATEMENT ORDERED - BOND REQUIRED.
   1.   Before a permit is issued to remove a building which has been ordered
removed as a public nuisance and which period of time granted by the City or by
the courts for removal or other remedial action by the applicant or other party
of interest has expired, the applicant may be required to post a cash bond
equal to the estimated costs of the removal of the building and the
disconnection of the existing utility services. If the applicant does not
remove the building at the time the permit expires at a time specified by the
Building Official, such bond shall be forfeited and used toward the costs of
the City to remove it.
   2.   If the building is removed by the applicant prior to the time the
permit expires, such bond shall be returned to the applicant. A return of the
bond does not exempt the applicant from further assessments of the real estate
for costs that have occurred prior to the issuance of the permit.
163.05   CLEARING AND LEVELING THE SITE.
   1.   The site of any demolition shall be properly cleared of debris,
rubbish, and pavement and shall be properly graded and leveled to conform with
the adjoining grade of the neighboring property; and when so graded and
leveled, the site shall be seeded, sodded, or treated in some other manner
acceptable to the Building Inspector so as to prevent blowing dust, dirt, or
sand. Excavations remaining after demolition shall be filled, graded, and
leveled off, not later than 15 consecutive days after demolition is completed.
   2.   Upon completion of the demolition work, the site shall be left in a
clean, smooth condition. Inorganic building rubble, sand, clean earth, or other
approved fill material may be used to fill excavations, basements, and
depressions, provided that the top 12 inches shall be clean earth or its
equivalent in terms of surface smoothness, free from dust, and cleanliness.
   3.   Excavations from demolished buildings or structures shall not be filled
with any materials subject to deterioration. The Building Inspector, upon
notification by the permit holder, the owner or their agent, in writing and
upon forms provided by the Building Inspector for that purpose, shall, within
72 hours inspect each excavation, or part thereof, before applicant is
permitted to fill any excavation.
   4.   It shall be unlawful to fill any such excavation without inspection and
approval of the Building Inspector. Voids in filled excavations shall not be
permitted. In the event of the unavailability of the Building Inspector to
conduct an inspection within 72 hours after written notice; the Public Works
Director, or designee, may conduct inspection. Said opinion shall be deemed
sufficient approval by the City provided that a written copy of the opinion
delivered to the Clerk is at least 48 hours before filling of the excavation
commences.
163.06   FENCING OR COVERING EXCAVATION OF BUILDING.
   Before the demolition or razing of any building or structure has commenced,
the building or structure undergoing such demolition or razing and all debris
on the property site shall be fenced and closed off to access by unauthorized
persons with a fence not less than four feet in height. When such demolition
and razing have reduced the building or structure to ground level, the
resulting excavation consisting of a basement, cellar, or other underground
excavation shall be promptly filled to ground level not more than 15 days after
said building or structure has been lowered to ground level.
163.07   TIME LIMIT FOR DEMOLITIONS.
   The razing or demolition of any building or structure within the City limits
shall be completed within 30 days after such demolition or razing first
commences. Completion of razing or demolition shall include the removal of all
debris resulting from such razing or demolition from the site where said
building or structure was located.
163.08   REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL.
   Removal, transportation, and disposal of all hazardous waste, hazardous and
toxic substances, and asbestos shall be conducted in compliance with all
applicable State, federal, and local statutes, ordinances, and regulations.
163.09   DISCONNECTION OF SEWER AND WATER.
   No permit to demolish shall be issued until it has been established that
existing sewer or water services have been properly disconnected and approved.
163.10   PLUGGING SEWERS FOR ABANDONED, RAZED, DEMOLISHED, OR DESTROYED
BUILDINGS.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, all sewer drains, sewer
connections, and water service line serving any razed or demolished building or
any building that has been destroyed by fire or other casualty shall be sealed,
plugged, or capped by concrete or a mechanical watertight device where such
sewer line exits from the building. Any plugs, caps, or seals applied under the
provisions of this chapter shall be made between the sidewalk and the curb or
such other point designated by the Public Works Director and shall remain
exposed until they have been viewed and approved by the Public Works Director.
Failure to obtain a permit as herein required, or failure to seal, plug, or cap
a sewer drain or water service line within 10 days after notice to do so by the
Public Works Director, or failure to allow such plug, cap, or seal to remain
exposed until inspected by the Public Works Director shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
163.11   RIGHT OF THE CITY TO ENTER UPON PREMISES IN THE EVENT OF
NONCOMPLIANCE.
   Authorized representatives of the City shall have the right to enter upon
any premises where the razing or demolition of any building or structure is in
progress for the purpose of constructing the fence or for the purpose of
providing fill for the excavation where the owner of said property has failed
to do so as required by this chapter and assess the costs as a lien on the
property.
163.12   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   1.   Demolition permits shall lapse and be void unless the work authorized
thereby is commenced within six months from the date thereof or completed
within 30 days from the date of commencement of said work. Any unfinished
portion of work remaining beyond the required 30 days must have special
approval from the Building Inspector.
   2.   The Building Official shall have the authority to impose at any time
reasonable requirements and safety precautions in the interest of public
health, safety, and welfare, which, in their opinion, are commensurate with the
severity of hazard, either demonstrated or anticipated, provided that such
requirements may be appealed to and reviewed by the Board of Appeals at the
request of the affected party.
   3.   The discharging, loading, or dumping of building materials from any
building shall be accomplished in such manner as to minimize the creation of
dust and scattering of debris. Materials shall not be dropped by gravity to any
point lying outside the building walls except through an enclosed chute, unless
such materials are dust free and the height of the drop is at least equal to
the horizontal distance to the nearest property or barricade line. Where such
horizontal distance is not available and practical necessity dictates the
dropping of relatively large masses of materials, the Building Official may
approve appropriate protective measures designed to provide protection from
danger equivalent to that afforded by the otherwise required setback; provided,
however, that in all cases such materials shall be handled in a manner approved
by the air pollution control division of the County Health Department.
   4.   When necessary, as determined by City officials, in order to protect
the public health, safety, or welfare, every demolition project shall be
barricaded, fenced, lighted, and signed with warning or directional signs in a
manner approved by the Building Official or Public Works Director. The Building
Official may also require the presence of approved security guards or flag
persons. Such barricades, fences, lights, and signs as may be deemed necessary
by the Building Official for protection of the public shall be maintained after
completion of the demolition work until such time as the site is cleaned of all
debris and all excavations, basements, and depressions in the ground are
restored to grade rendered harmless.
   5.   Adequate precautions shall be taken to ensure that procedures or
conditions relating to the demolition work do not constitute a fire hazard. If,
in the opinion of the Fire Chief, a fire hazard exists or is likely to exist,
they may order the cessation of work or require that appropriate protective
measures approved by them are taken.
   6.   All streets, alleys, and public ways adjacent to the demolition site
shall be kept free and clear of any rubbish, refuse, and loose material
resulting from the demolition work, unless an Obstruction Permit for such space
has been obtained.
   7.   Demolition of structures subject to public nuisance action shall
include removal of all footing and foundation materials unless an obstruction
permit for such space has been obtained.
   8.   All debris must be hauled away at the end of each week for the work
that was completed during that week. No combustible material shall be used for
backfill but shall be hauled away. There shall not be any burning of materials
on the site of the razed building.
   9.   If any razing or removal operation under this section results in, or
would likely result in, dust particles in the air creating a nuisance in the
vicinity thereof, the permittee shall take all necessary steps, by use of water
spraying or other appropriate means, to eliminate such nuisance.
   10.   The permittee shall take all necessary steps, prior to the razing of a
building, through the employment of a qualified person in the field of pest
control or by other appropriate means, to treat the building as to prevent the
spread and migration of rodents and insects therefrom during and after the
razing operations.
CHAPTER 165
ZONING CODE - GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
165.01 Title                          165.05 Conflicting Provisions
165.02 Jurisdiction                   165.06 Relief from Other Provisions
165.03 Purpose                        165.07 Publication
165.04 Consistency with Comprehensive 165.08 Severability
Development Plan
 
165.01   TITLE.
   Chapters 165 through
177 of this Code shall be known as the Zoning Code of the City.
165.02   JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of the Zoning Code shall be applicable to all property within
the corporate limits of the City as authorized by Chapter 414 of the Code of
Iowa.
165.03   PURPOSE.
The purposes of the Zoning Code are to:
   1.   Serve the public health, safety, and general welfare of the City and
its jurisdiction.
   2.   Classify property in a manner that reflects its suitability for
specific uses.
   3.   Provide for sound, attractive development within the City and its
jurisdiction.
   4.   Encourage environmentalism of adjacent land uses.
   5.   Protect environmentally sensitive areas.
   6.   Further the objectives of the Comprehensive Development Plan of the
City.
165.04   CONSISTENCY WITH COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The City intends that this Zoning Code and any amendments to it shall be
consistent with the City’s Comprehensive Development Plan. It is the City’s
intent to amend this Code whenever such action is deemed necessary to keep
regulatory provisions in conformance with the Comprehensive Development Plan.
165.05   CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   The Zoning Code shall be held to provide the minimum requirements necessary
for the promotion of public health, safety, and welfare. If any provision of
the Zoning Code conflicts with any other provision of the Zoning Code, any
other ordinance of the City, or any applicable State or federal law, the more
restrictive provision shall apply.
165.06   RELIEF FROM OTHER PROVISIONS.
   Nothing in these provisions shall relieve any property owner or user from
satisfying any condition or requirement associated with a previous approval,
special permit, variance, development permit, or other permit issued under any
local, State, or federal ordinance or statute.
165.07   PUBLICATION.
   This Code shall be published in book or pamphlet form and, together with the
maps being a part hereof, shall be filed with the City Administrator.
165.08   SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, provision, or part of the Zoning Code be adjudged invalid or
unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the validity of the Zoning
Code as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof not adjudged invalid
or unconstitutional.
CHAPTER 166
ZONING CODE - DEFINITIONS
 
166.01 Purpose                          166.03 Definition of Terms
166.02 General Construction of Language
 
166.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote consistency and precision in the
interpretation of this Zoning Code. The meaning and construction of words as
set forth shall apply throughout this Zoning Code, unless where modified in a
specific section or where the context of such words or phrases clearly
indicates a different meaning or construction.
166.02   GENERAL CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE.
The following general rules of construction apply to the text of the Zoning
Code.
   1.   Headings. Section and subsection headings contained herein are provided
for illustrative purposes only and shall not be deemed to limit, govern,
modify, or otherwise affect the scope, meaning, or intent of any provision of
the Zoning Code.
   2.   Illustration. In the case of any real or apparent conflict between the
text of this Zoning Code and any illustration explaining the text, the text
shall apply.
   3.   Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, the
following conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows:
      A.   “And” indicates that all connected items or provisions apply.
      B.   “Or” indicates that the connected items or provisions may apply
singly or in any combination.
      C.   “Either ... or” indicates that the connected items or provisions
shall apply singly but not in combination.
   4.   Referenced Agencies. Unless otherwise indicated, all public officials,
bodies, and agencies referred to in this chapter are those of the City.
166.03   DEFINITION OF TERMS.
For the purposes of this Zoning Code, certain terms and words are hereby
defined. Certain sections contain definitions which are additional to those
listed here. Where terms are not specifically defined, their ordinarily
accepted meaning or meanings implied by their context shall apply.
   1.   Words beginning with “A.”
      A.   “Absolute photometry” means photometric measurements (usually of a
solid-state luminaire) that directly measure the footprint of the luminaire.
Reference Standard IES LM-79.
      B.   “Abutting” means having lot lines or district boundaries in common,
including property separated by a public street or alley. This term is used
interchangeably with “adjacent.”
      C.   “Accessory structure” means a structure which is incidental to and
customarily associated with a specific principal use or building on the same
site. The structure may or may not contain a dwelling unit. See “Dwelling,
Accessory.”
      D.   “Accessory use” means a use which is incidental to and customarily
associated with a specific principal use on the same site.
      E.   “Addition” means any construction which increases the size of a
building or structure in terms of site coverage, height, length, width, or
gross floor area.
      F.   “Administration” means governmental office uses providing
administrative, clerical, or public contact services that deal directly with
the citizen, together with incidental storage and maintenance of necessary
vehicles. Typical uses include federal, State, County, and City offices.
      G.   “Administrative Official” means the City Administrative Official or
appropriate designee.
      H.   “Adult entertainment” means any business activity which offers the
opportunity to view sexual activities or view or touch anatomical areas for
entertainment purposes, depicts or describes sexual conduct. This category
includes the sale or viewing of visual or print materials that meet these
criteria. Typical uses include retail services or stores which are
distinguished by an emphasis on activities or materials that emphasize sexual
content; businesses which offer live performances characterized by exposure of
specified anatomical areas; and adult theaters.
      I.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way which is used as a secondary
means of access to abutting property.
      J.   “Alteration” means any construction or physical change in the
internal arrangement of spaces, the supporting members, the positioning on a
site, or the appearance of a building or structure.
      K.   “Amateur radio tower” means a structure for the transmission or
broadcasting of electromagnetic signals by FCC-licensed amateur radio
operators.
      L.   “Apartment” means a dwelling unit within a building designed for and
suitable for occupancy by only one family. Apartments are generally located
within multi-family residential buildings.
      M.   “Astronomic time switch” means an automatic lighting control device
that switches outdoor lighting relative to the time of solar day with the time
of year.
      N.   “Attached” means having one or more walls in common with a principal
building or connected to a principal building by an integral architectural
element, such as a covered passageway, façade wall extension, or archway.
      O.   “Automotive and equipment services” means an overarching term for
the following establishments or places of business primarily engaged in the
sale or service of automobiles, trucks, or heavy equipment. The following are
considered automotive and equipment use types:
         (1)   Auto Services. Provision of fuel, lubricants, parts, and
accessories, and incidental services to motor vehicles; and washing and
cleaning or repair of automobiles, non-commercial trucks, motorcycles, motor
homes, recreational vehicles, or boats, including the sale, installation, and
servicing of equipment and parts. Typical uses include service stations, car
washes, muffler shops, auto repair garages, tire sales and installation, wheel
and brake shops, and similar repair and service activities, but exclude
dismantling, salvage, or body and fender repair services.
         (2)   Repair Services. Repair, painting, or refinishing of the body,
fender, or frame of automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, motor homes, recreational
vehicles, boats, tractors, construction equipment, agricultural implements, and
similar vehicles or equipment. Typical uses include body and fender shops,
painting shops, and other similar repair or refinishing garages.
         (3)   Equipment Rental and Sales. Sale or rental of trucks, tractors,
construction equipment, agricultural implements, mobile homes, and similar
heavy equipment, including incidental storage, maintenance, and servicing.
Typical uses include truck dealerships, construction equipment dealerships, and
mobile home sales establishments.
         (4)   Vehicle Storage (Short-Term). Storage of operating or non-
operating vehicles for a period of no more than 21 days. Typical uses include
storage of private parking tow-aways or impound yards but exclude dismantling
or salvage. Long-term storage of operating or non-operating vehicles beyond 21
days constitutes an industrial use type.
         (5)   Vehicle Storage (Long-Term). Long-term storage of operating or
non-operating vehicles for a period exceeding 21 days. Typical uses include
storage of private parking tow-aways or impound yards but exclude dismantling
or salvage.
   2.   Words beginning with “B.”
      A.   “B.U.G” means a luminaire classification system that classifies
backlight (B), uplight (U), and glare (G).
      B.   “Backlight” means, for an exterior luminaire, lumens emitted in the
quarter sphere below horizontal and in the opposite direction of the intended
orientation of the luminaire. For luminaires with symmetric distribution,
backlight will be the same as front light.
      C.   “Bar” means a use engaged in the preparation and retail sale of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, including taverns, bars,
cocktail lounges, and similar uses other than a restaurant as that term is
defined in this section.
      D.   “Base Zoning District” means a district established by this Zoning
Code which prescribes basic regulations governing land use and site development
standards. For any actions taken after the effective date of this Code, no more
than one Base Zoning District shall apply to any individually platted lot or
parcel unless the lot or parcel is part of a Planned Unit Development.
      E.   “Basement” means a level of a building below street level that has
at least one-half of its height below the surface of adjacent ground. A
basement used for independent dwelling or business purposes shall be considered
a story for the purposes of height measurement. Chapter 185 sets forth
floodplain and floodway regulations governing building standards in flood-prone
areas.
      F.   “Bed and breakfast” means a lodging service that provides overnight
or short-term accommodations to guests or visitors, usually including the
provision of breakfast. Bed and breakfasts are usually located in large
residential structures that have been adapted for this use. For the purpose of
this definition, bed and breakfasts are always owned and operated by the
resident owner of the structure, include no more than 10 units, and accommodate
each guest or visitor for no more than seven consecutive days during any one-
month period.
      G.   “Berm” means a mound of earth or fill material designed to blend
into a landscape either to block out unwanted views or uses, to decrease noise,
or to improve the design of a property.
      H.   “Block” means an area of land within a subdivision that is entirely
bounded by streets, or by streets and the exterior boundaries of the
subdivision, or by a combination of the above with a watercourse or lake, and
which has been designated as such on a plat for the purposes of the legal
description of a property.
      I.   “Blockface” means the property abutting one side of a street and
lying between the two nearest intersection streets or between the one nearest
intersecting street and a major physical barrier, including, but not limited
to, railroads, streams, lakes, or the corporate limits of the City.
      J.   “Board of Adjustment” means a body established by the Code of Iowa
for the purpose of issuing Conditional Use Permits, interpreting and granting
variances, and hearing appeals as provided by this Zoning Code.
      K.   “Broadcasting tower” means a structure for the transmission or
broadcasting of radio, television, radar, or microwaves, ordinarily exceeding
the maximum height permitted in its zoning district.
      L.   “Buffer” means a combination of horizontal space (land) and vertical
elements (plants, berm, fences, and walls), used to physically separate or
visually screen incompatible adjacent land uses.
      M.   “Buffer yard” means a landscaped area intended to separate and
partially obstruct the view of two adjacent land uses or properties from one
another.
      N.   “Building” means a structure entirely separated from any other
structure by space or by walls and having a roof and being built to provide
shelter, support, or enclosure for persons or property.
      O.   “Building coverage” means the area of a site covered by buildings or
roofed areas, excluding allowed projecting eaves, balconies, and similar
features.
      P.   “Building envelope” means the three-dimensional space within which a
structure is permitted to be built on a lot after all zoning and other
applicable municipal requirements have been met.
      Q.   “Building line” means the outer boundary of a building established
by the location of its exterior walls.
      R.   “Building marker” means an historic or commemorative plaque, or a
building name or cornerstone carved into a masonry surface.
      S.   “Building Official” means the designee of the Council, responsible
for the enforcement of Chapter 155.
      T.   “Building” means a structure entirely separated from any other
structure by space or by walls and having a roof and being built to provide
shelter, support, or enclosure for persons or property.
      U.   “Business” means activities that include the exchange or manufacture
of goods or services on a site.
   3.   Words beginning with “C.”
      A.   “Caliper” means the diameter of a tree trunk. Usually used for trees
less than 12 inches in diameter.
      B.   “Campground” means facilities providing camping or parking areas and
incidental services for travelers in recreational vehicles or tents, which
accommodate each guest or visitor for no more than seven consecutive days
during any one-month period.
      C.   “Canopy” means a projecting non-movable structure cantilevered or
suspended from a building, supported by the main structural members to which it
is attached, and used only as a roof or fixed shelter. A canopy may include a
printed message or graphic, or not, and is treated no differently as a result
under this chapter.
      D.   “Cemetery” means land used or intended to be used for the burial of
the dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including columbaria, crematoria,
mausoleums, and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the
boundary of such cemetery.
      E.   “Certificate of Occupancy” means an official certificate issued by
the Building Official, upon finding of conformance with the City’s Building
Code (Chapter 155), and upon receipt of a Certificate of Zoning Compliance.
      F.   “Certificate of Zoning Compliance” means an official certificate
issued by the Building Official, which indicates that the proposed use of a
building or land complies with the provisions of this Zoning Code.
      G.   “Change of use” means the replacement of an existing use by a new
use.
      H.   “Civic organizations” means uses providing meeting, recreational, or
social facilities for a private, nonprofit, or non-commercial association,
primarily for use by members and guests.
      I.   “Clearance” means the distance from the bottom of a sign face
elevated above grade and the grade below.
      J.   “Commercial breeders” means a person, engaged in the business of
breeding dogs, cats, or other small animals who sells, exchanges, or leases
animals in return for consideration or who offers to do so, whether or not the
animals are raised, trained, groomed, or boarded by the person. Typical uses
are large-scale animal breeding operations.
      K.   “Commercial recreation” means private businesses or other
organizations, which may or may not be commercial by structure or by nature,
which are primarily engaged in the provision or sponsorship of sports,
entertainment, or recreation for participants or spectators. Typical uses
include driving ranges, theaters, private dance halls, or private skating
facilities. Commercial recreation is divided into the following categories:
         (1)   Commercial Recreation (Limited). Facilities which include a
structure of 10,000 square feet or less or a site covering an area of no more
than one-half acre.
         (2)   Commercial Recreation (General). Facilities which include a
structure of more than 10,000 square feet or a site covering an area of more
than one-half acre.
      L.   “Common area” means an area held, designed, and designated for
common or cooperative use within a development.
      M.   “Common development” means a development proposed and planned as one
unified project not separated by a public street or alley.
      N.   “Communications services” means establishments primarily engaged in
the provision of broadcasting and other information relay services accomplished
through the use of electronic and telephonic mechanisms, but not including
those classified as utilities. Typical uses include television studios,
telecommunication service centers, telegraph service offices, or film and sound
recording facilities. Broadcast towers and their minor ancillary ground
structures are classified as miscellaneous use types.
      O.   “Compatibility” means the degree to which two or more different land
use types are able to exist together in close proximity, with no one use having
significant negative effects on any other use.
      P.   “Comprehensive Plan” means the duly adopted Comprehensive
Development Plan of the City to address future growth and development.
      Q.   “Conditional Use Permit (CUP)” means a permit that is intended to
accommodate those types of uses that don’t fit neatly into any particular
zoning district, and which have the potential to impact surrounding properties.
As part of the approval process, the Board of Adjustment can impose conditions
on the proposed use to help minimize the potential impacts on surrounding
properties.
      R.   “Conservation subdivision” means, wholly or in the majority, a
residential subdivision that permits a reduction in lot area, setback, or other
site development regulations, provided:
         (1)   There is no increase in the overall density permitted for a
conventional subdivision in a given zoning district; and
         (2)   The remaining land area is used for common space.
      S.   “Construction yards” means establishments, housing facilities, or
businesses primarily engaged in construction activities, including incidental
storage of materials and equipment on lots other than construction sites.
Typical uses are building contractor’s yards.
      T.   “Consumer services” means establishments which provide services
primarily to individuals and households, excluding automotive use types.
Typical uses include automated banking machines, appliance repair shops, watch
or jewelry repair shops, or musical instrument repair shops.
      U.   “Convenience storage” means storage services primarily for personal
effects and household goods within enclosed storage areas having individual
access, but excluding the use of such areas as workshops, hobby shops,
manufacturing, or commercial activity. Typical uses include mini warehousing.
      V.   “Court” means an approved private right-of-way which provides access
to residential properties and meets at least three of the following conditions:
         (1)   Serves 12 or fewer housing units or platted lots.
         (2)   Does not function as a local street because of its alignment,
design, or location.
         (3)   Is completely internal to a development.
         (4)   Does not exceed 600 feet in length.
      W.   “Crop production” means the raising and harvesting of tree crops,
row crops, or field crops on an agricultural or commercial basis. This
definition may include accessory retail sales under certain conditions.
      X.   “Cultural services” means a library, museum, or similar registered
nonprofit organizational use displaying, preserving, and exhibiting objects of
community and cultural interest in one or more of the arts and sciences.
      Y.   “Curb” means a stone, concrete, or other improved boundary marking
the edge of a road or other paved area.
      Z.   “Curb line” means a line, whether curbing exists or not, which is
the edge of the pavement or shoulder.
      AA.   “Custom manufacturing” means establishments primarily engaged in
the on-site production of goods by hand manufacturing, within enclosed
structures. This category also includes the incidental direct sale to consumers
of only those goods produced on-site. Typical uses include ceramic studios,
custom jewelry manufacturing, and candle making shops. This involves:
         (1)   The use of hand tools; or
         (2)   The use of domestic mechanical equipment not exceeding two
horsepower; or
         (3)   A single kiln not exceeding eight KW or equivalent.
   4.   Words beginning with “D.”
      A.   “Daycare services” means care for children in the absence of parents
or adults requiring supervision for a portion of the day, but less than 24
hours.
         (1)   Daycare Services (Limited). This use type includes all
classifications of daycare facilities regulated by the State that operate
providing care for not more than six children. This term includes nursery
schools, preschools, daycare centers for children or adults, and similar uses,
but excludes public and private primary and secondary educational facilities.
         (2)   Daycare Services (General). This use type includes all
classifications of daycare facilities regulated by the State that operate
providing care for more than six children. This term includes nursery schools,
preschools, daycare centers for children or adults, and similar uses, but
excludes public and private primary and secondary educational facilities.
      B.   “Deck” means an unroofed platform, unenclosed, except by a railing,
which is attached to the ground or another structure.
      C.   “Density” means the amount of development per specific unit of a
site.
      D.   “Detached” means fully separated from any other building or jointed
to another building in such a manner as not to constitute an enclosed or
covered connection.
      E.   “Detention facilities” means a publicly operated or contracted use
providing housing and care for individuals legally confined, designed to
isolate those individuals from the community.
      F.   “Drive-in services” means uses which involve the sale of products or
provision of services to occupants in vehicles.
      G.   “Drive-thru” means an establishment that provides or dispenses
products or services, through an attendant or an automated machine, to persons
remaining in their vehicle that are in designated drive-thru stacking lanes. A
drive-thru facility may be in combination with other uses, such as financial
institutions, restaurants, pharmacies, and service providers, such as dry
cleaners.
      H.   “Driveway” means a permanent surface area providing vehicular access
between a street and an off-street parking or loading area. A driveway surface
area shall be asphaltic, Portland cement binder pavement, paver block, concrete
block, or similar surface so as to provide a durable and dustless surface.
Gravel or rock is not deemed to be a dustless surface.
      I.   “Dwelling unit” means one or more rooms, designed, occupied, or
intended for occupancy as a separate living quarter, with cooking, sleeping,
and sanitary facilities provided within the dwelling unit for the exclusive use
of a single family maintaining a household.
   5.   Words beginning with “E.”
      A.   “Easement” means a privilege or right of use granted on, above,
under, or across a particular tract of land for a specific purpose by one owner
to another owner, public or private agency, or utility.
      B.   “Elder group home” means a facility as defined in Section 231B of
the Code of Iowa.
      C.   “Emergency conditions” means lighting that is only energized during
an emergency power source; or the path of egress solely during a fire or other
emergency situation; or lighting for security purposes used solely during an
alarm; or lighting fed from a backup lighting for illuminating.
      D.   “Enclosed” means a roofed or covered space fully surrounded by
walls.
      E.   “Extended stay hotel” or Motel” see “Lodging.”
   6.   Words beginning with “F.”
      A.   “Façade” means the exterior face of a building which is the
architectural front, sometimes distinguished from the other faces by
elaboration of architectural or ornamental details.
      B.   “Family” means one or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit,
related by blood, marriage, domestic partnership, adoption, or other custodial
arrangement.
      C.   “Family home” means a facility as defined in Section 414.22 of the
Code of Iowa, including, but not limited to, elder family homes and elder group
homes.
      D.   “Federal” means pertaining to the Government of the United States of
America.
      E.   “Fence” means a structure made of wood, metal, masonry, or other
material, typically used to screen, enclose, or divide open space for a setback
or along a design site line.
      F.   “Financial services” means the provision of financial and banking
services to consumers or clients. Walk-in and drive-in services to consumers
are provided on site. Typical uses include banks, savings and loan
associations, savings banks, and loan companies. An ATM (automatic teller
machine) which is not accompanied on-site by an office of its primary financial
institution is considered a general retail service use type.
      G.   “Firework sales” means establishments selling consumer first class
fireworks and consumer second class fireworks. A Firework Seller License issued
by the State Fire Marshal is required. Firework establishments must comply with
all standards of the National Fire Protection Act 1124 and Section 100.19 of
the Code of Iowa.
      H.   “Food sales” means establishments or places of business primarily
engaged in the retail sale of food or household products for home consumption.
Typical uses include groceries, delicatessens, meat markets, retail bakeries,
and candy shops.
         (1)   Food Sales (Convenience). Establishments occupying facilities of
less than 10,000 square feet; and characterized by sales of specialty foods or
a limited variety of general items, and by the sales of fuel for motor
vehicles.
         (2)   Food Sales (General). Establishments selling a wide variety of
food commodities, using facilities larger than 10,000 square feet. Typical uses
include supermarkets.
         (3)   Food Sales (Limited). Establishments occupying facilities of
less than 10,000 square feet; and characterized by sales of specialty foods or
a limited variety of general items but excluding the accessory sale of fuel for
motor vehicles. Typical uses include delicatessens, meat markets, retail
bakeries, candy shops, and small grocery stores.
      I.   “Footcandle” means the unit of measure expressing the quantity of
light received on a surface. One footcandle is the illuminance produced by a
candle on a surface one-foot square from a distance of one foot.
      J.   “Frontage” means the length of a property line of any one premise
abutting and parallel to a public street, private way, or court.
      K.   “Fully shielded luminaire” means a luminaire constructed and
installed in such a manner that all light emitted by the luminaire, either
directly from the lamp or a diffusing element, or indirectly by reflection or
refraction from any part of the luminaire, is projected below the horizontal
plane through the luminaire’s lowest light-emitting part.
      L.   “Funeral services” means establishments engaged in undertaking
services such as preparing the human dead for burial and arranging and managing
funerals. Typical uses include funeral homes or mortuaries.
   7.   Words beginning with “G.”
      A.   “Gaming facilities” means establishments engaged in the lawful, on-
site operation of games of chance that involve the risk of money for financial
gain by patrons. Gaming facilities shall include the accessory sale of liquor
and food, pursuant to licensing regulations of the City or the State.
      B.   “General industry” means enterprises engaged in the processing,
manufacturing, compounding, assembly, packaging, storage, treatment, or
fabrication of materials and products from prepared materials or from raw
materials without noticeable noise, odor, vibration, or air pollution effects
across property lines.
      C.   “General offices” means the use of a site for business,
professional, or administrative offices. Typical uses include real estate,
insurance, management, travel, or other business offices; organization and
association offices; banks or financial offices; or professional offices. The
use may contain more than one commercial business or a group of nonresidential
buildings within a common development.
      D.   “General retail services” means the sale or rental with incidental
service of commonly used goods and merchandise for personal or household use,
but excludes those classified more specifically by these use type
classifications. Typical uses include department stores, apparel stores,
furniture stores, or establishments providing the following products or
services: household cleaning and maintenance products; drugs, cards,
stationery, notions, books, tobacco products, cosmetics, and specialty items;
flowers, plants, hobby materials, toys, and handcrafted items; apparel jewelry,
fabrics and like items; cameras, photographic services, household electronic
equipment, records, sporting equipment, kitchen utensils, home furnishing and
appliances, art supplies and framing, arts and antiques, paint and wallpaper,
hardware, carpeting and floor covering; interior decorating services; retail
sales of pets; office supplies; mail order or catalog sales; bicycles; and
automotive parts and accessories (excluding service and installation).
         (1)   General retail services (small scale) include facilities with no
more than 10,000 square feet in a single establishment or 30,000 square feet
within a multiple-tenant common development.
         (2)   General retail services (large scale) include facilities of
10,000 or more square feet in a single establishment or 30,000 square feet
within a multiple-tenant common development.
      E.   “Glare” means lighting entering the eye directly from luminaires or
indirectly from reflective surfaces that causes visual discomfort or reduced
visibility.
      F.   “Grade” means the horizontal elevation of the finished surface of
ground, paving, or sidewalk adjacent to any building line.
         (1)   For buildings having walls facing one street only, the grade
shall be the elevation of the sidewalk (or the boundary line between the
property and the street right-of-way in the absence of sidewalks) perpendicular
to the center of the wall facing the street.
         (2)   For buildings having walls facing more than one street, the
grade shall be the average elevation of the grades of all walls facing each
street.
         (3)   For buildings having no walls facing a street, the grade shall
be the average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the
exterior walls of the building.
      G.   “Gross floor area” means the total enclosed area of all floors of a
building, measured to the inside surfaces of the exterior walls. This
definition excludes the areas of basements, elevator shafts, airspaces above
atriums, and enclosed off-street parking and loading areas serving a principal
use.
      H.   “Groundcover” means vegetation that helps in stabilizing the soil
such as vines, turf, low growing shrubs, and perennials.
      I.   “Group care facility” means a government-licensed or approved
facility which provides for resident care and short or long-term, continuous
multi-day occupancy of more than eight, but no more than 30, unrelated persons,
not including resident staff. Group care facilities include facilities which
provide services in accordance with individual needs for the:
         (1)   Adaptation to living with, or rehabilitation from, the handicaps
of physical disability.
         (2)   Adaptation to living with, or rehabilitation from, the handicaps
of emotional or mental disorders or developmental disabilities.
         (3)   Rehabilitation from the effects of drug or alcohol abuse.
         (4)   Supervision while under a program alternative to imprisonment,
including, but not limited to, pre-release, work-release, and probationary
programs.
         (5)   Others who require direct adult supervision.
      J.   “Group home” means a facility licensed by the State in which at
least three, but no more than eight persons, not including resident managers or
house parents, who are unrelated by blood, marriage, or adoption, reside while
receiving therapy, training, living assistance, or counseling for the purpose
of adaptation to living with or rehabilitation from a physical or mental
disability as defined by the relevant provisions of the Code of Iowa, or by the
Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988.
      K.   “Group residential” means the use of a site for a residence by four
or more unrelated persons or distinct individuals, not defined as a family, on
a weekly or longer basis.
      L.   “Guidance services” means a use providing counseling, direction,
recuperative, or similar services to persons requiring rehabilitation
assistance as a result of mental illness, alcoholism, detention, drug
addiction, or similar condition on a daytime care basis.
   8.   Words beginning with “H.”
      A.   “Hardscape” means permanent hardscape improvements to the site
including parking lots, drives, entrances, curbs, ramps, stairs, steps,
medians, walkways, and non-vegetated landscaping that is 10 feet or less in
width. Materials may include concrete, asphalt, stone, gravel, etc.
      B.   “Hardscape area” means the area measured in square feet of all
hardscape. It is used to calculate the total site lumen limit in both the
Prescriptive Method and Performance Methods. See “Hardscape.”
      C.   “Health care” means a facility providing medical, psychiatric, or
surgical service for sick or injured persons exclusively on an outpatient
basis, including emergency treatment, diagnostic services, training,
administration, and services to outpatients, employees, or visitors.
         (1)   Health care (small-scale) includes facilities with no more than
10,000 square feet in a single establishment or 30,000 square feet within a
multiple-tenant common development.
         (2)   Health care (large-scale) includes facilities of 10,000 or more
square feet in a single establishment or 30,000 square feet within a multiple-
tenant common development.
      D.   “Heavy industry” means enterprises involved in the basic processing
and manufacturing of products, predominately from raw materials, with
noticeable noise, odor, vibration, or air pollution effects across property
lines; or a use or process engaged in the storage of or processes involving
potentially or actually hazardous, explosive, flammable, radioactive, or other
commonly recognized hazardous materials.
      E.   “Height” means the vertical distance from the established grade to
the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, the deck line of a mansard
roof, gable, hip, shed, or gambrel roof. For other cases, height shall be
measured as the vertical distance from the established grade to the highest
point of a structure as herein defined. Where a building or structure is
located on a slope, height shall be measured from the average grade level
adjacent to the building or structure.
      F.   “Home based business” or “home occupation” means an accessory
occupational use conducted entirely within a dwelling unit by its inhabitants,
which is clearly incidental to the residential use of the dwelling unit or
residential structure and does not change the residential character of its site
or have any external evidence of such use.
      G.   “Horticulture” means the growing of horticultural and floricultural
specialties, such as flowers, shrubs, or trees intended for ornamental or
landscaping purposes. This definition may include accessory retail sales under
certain conditions. Typical uses include wholesale plant nurseries and
greenhouses.
      H.   “Hotel.” See “Lodging.”
      I.   “Housing unit” or “Dwelling unit” means a building, or portion of a
building, arranged for and intended for occupancy as an independent living
facility for one family, including permanent provisions for cooking.
   9.   Words beginning with “I.”
      A.   “Illumination” means lighting sources installed for the primary
purpose of lighting a specific sign or group of signs.
      B.   “Impervious coverage” means the total horizontal area of all
buildings, roofed or covered spaces, paved surface areas, walkways and
driveways, and any other site improvements that decrease the ability of the
surface of the site to absorb water, expressed as a percent of site area. The
surface water area of pools is excluded from this definition.
      C.   “Industry standard lighting software” means lighting software that
calculates point-by-point illuminance that includes reflected light using
either raytracing or radiosity methods.
      D.   “In-patient services” means uses providing bed care and in-patient
services for persons requiring regular medical attention but excluding a
facility providing surgical or emergency medical services and excluding a
facility providing care for alcoholism, drug addiction, mental illness, or
communicable disease. Typical uses include nursing homes.
   10.   Words beginning with “J.”
   11.   Words beginning with “K.”
   12.   Words beginning with “L.”
      A.   “Lamp” means a generic term for a source of optical radiation (i.e.
“light”), often called a “bulb” or “tube.” Examples include incandescent,
fluorescent, high-intensity discharge (HID) lamps, and low-pressure sodium
(LPS) lamps, as well as light-emitting diode (LED) modules and arrays.
      B.   “Landfill” means the use of a site as a depository for solid wastes,
including:
         (1)   Landfill (non-putrescible solid waste disposal) is the use of a
site as a depository for solid wastes that do not readily undergo chemical or
biological breakdown under conditions normally associated with land disposal
operations. Typical disposal material would include ashes, concrete, paving
wastes, rock, brick, lumber, roofing materials, and ceramic tile.
         (2)   Landfill (putrescible and non-putrescible solid waste disposal)
is the use of a site as a depository for any solid waste, except hazardous and
toxic waste as defined by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency or the
State. Typical disposal material would include non-putrescible wastes and
putrescible wastes such as vegetation, tree parts, agricultural wastes
(garbage), and manure.
      C.   “Landscape islands” means a raised unpaved area located within or
protruding into a parking lot or the center, unpaved area of a cul-de-sac or
traffic circle. The area of a landscape island is measured from the back of the
curb to the back of curb.
      D.   “Landscape lighting” means lighting of trees, shrubs, or other plant
material as well as ponds and other landscape features.
      E.   “Landscape pod” means a small individual unpaved area within a
parking lot incorporated to provide locations for vegetation, thus increasing
the aesthetic quality of the parking lot.
      F.   “Landscaped area” means the area within the boundaries of a given
lot, site, or common development consisting primarily of plant material,
including, but not limited to, grass, trees, shrubs, vines, groundcover, and
other organic plant materials; or grass paver masonry units installed such that
the appearance of the area is primarily landscaped.
      G.   “Laundry services” means establishments primarily engaged in the
provision of laundering, cleaning, or dyeing services other than those
classified as personal services. Typical uses include bulk laundry and cleaning
plants, diaper services, or linen supply services.
      H.   “LED” means light emitting diode.
      I.   “Light industry” means establishments engaged in the manufacture or
processing of finished products from previously prepared materials, including
processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of such products,
and incidental storage, sales, and distribution. These establishments are
characterized by having no major external environmental effects across property
lines and include no unscreened or un-enclosed outdoor storage. Typical uses
include commercial bakeries, dressed beef processing plants, soft drink
bottling, apparel assembly from fabrics, electronics, manufacturing, print
shops, and publishing houses.
      J.   “Light trespass” means light that falls beyond the property it is
intended to illuminate.
      K.   “Lighting” means “electric,” “man-made,” or “artificial” lighting.
See “Lighting equipment.”
      L.   “Lighting equipment” means equipment specifically intended to
provide gas or electric illumination, including, but not limited to, lamps,
luminaires, ballasts, poles, posts, lenses, and related structures, electrical
wiring, and other necessary or auxiliary components.
      M.   “Lighting zone” means a lighting category establishing legal limits
for lighting for particular parcels, areas, or districts in a community.
      N.   “Liquor sales” means establishments or places of business engaged in
retail sale for off-premises consumption of alcoholic beverages. Typical uses
include liquor stores, bottle shops, or any licensed sales of liquor, beer, or
wine for off-site consumption.
      O.   “Loading area” means an off-street area used for the loading or
unloading of goods from a vehicle in connection with the use of the site on
which such area is located.
      P.   “Lodging” means lodging services involving the provision of room or
board but not meeting the classification criteria of bed and breakfasts.
Typical uses include the following definitions:
         (1)   “Extended stay hotel” or “motel” means any structure consisting
of one or more buildings, with more than five specific dwelling units with
provisions for living, eating, contain kitchen facilities for food preparation
including, but not limited to, refrigerators, stoves and ovens, sanitation,
separate bathroom and kitchen sink, and sleeping in each unit, that is
specifically constructed, kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out to
the public to be a place where temporary residence is offered for pay to
persons, for a minimum stay of more than 30 days and a maximum stay of 10
months within the dwelling units at the structure, that is approved pursuant to
a valid Certificate of Occupancy issued by the Building Official having
jurisdiction as having all of the required dwelling unit features, and for
which such valid Certificate of Occupancy indicates the specific rooms within
the structure that can be used as dwelling units, and that is approved by the
Fire Marshal for extended stay temporary residence purposes. Each room shall be
a minimum of 275 square feet in area, exclusive of bathroom, closet, or balcony
space. Weekly services for each dwelling unit of linen change, towel change,
soap change, general cleanup, and a registration lobby staffed on a 12-hour
daily basis and 24-hour daily registration, and emergency phone number are
provided by the management. Each extended stay dwelling unit and facilities are
subject to the City’s rental inspection outlined in Chapter 156. For the
purposes of parking requirements, extended stay hotels or motels will have to
meet the multi-family residential parking requirements.
         (2)   “Hotel” means one or more buildings containing 20 or more guest
rooms, with such rooms being designed or intended to be used, or which are used
as temporary or overnight accommodations for guests in which daily services of
linen change, central telephone switchboard, towel change, soap change, general
cleanup, and a registration lobby staffed on a 24-hour daily basis are provided
by the management. Each room shall be a minimum of 250 square feet in area,
exclusive of bathroom, closet, or balcony space. No room may be used by the
same person or persons for a period exceeding 30 days per year. Access to all
rooms shall be provided through one or more common entrances. Accessory uses
are encouraged and permitted accessory uses include restaurants, cocktail
lounges, banquet halls, ballrooms, or meeting rooms.
         (3)   “Motel” means a building or group of buildings containing
dwelling units, intended to be used or which are used as temporary or overnight
accommodations for guests, in which daily services of linen change, central
telephone switchboard, towel change, soap change, general cleanup, and a
registration lobby staffed on a 12-hour daily basis and 24-hour daily
registration, and emergency phone number are provided by the management. Each
room shall be a minimum of 250 square feet in area, exclusive of bathroom,
closet, or balcony space. No room may be used by the same person or persons for
a period exceeding 30 days per year. Each living or sleeping unit shall have an
individual entrance from outside the building. Living or sleeping units may be
equipped with cooking facilities. Parking close to the entrance of each living
or sleeping unit should be made available.
      Q.   “Lot” means a parcel of property with a separate and distinct number
or other identifying designation which has been created, assigned, and recorded
in the County Recorder. Each individual lot is subject to the provisions of a
particular Base Zoning District and shall have a minimum frontage of 20 feet,
except as provided in an approved Planned Unit Development or Conservation
Subdivision.
      R.   “Lot area” means the total horizontal area within the lot lines of a
lot.
         (1)    “Lot, common development” means a lot which is considered a
single lot for the purposes of this Zoning Code, when two or more contiguous
lots are developed as part of a Planned Unit Development.
         (2)   “Lot, corner” means a lot located at the junction of at least
two streets, private ways or courts, or at least two segments of a curved
street, private way or court, at which the angle of intersection is no greater
than 135 degrees.
         (3)   “Lot, double frontage” (also known as a “through lot”) means a
lot, other than a corner lot, having frontage on two streets, private ways, or
courts Primary access shall be restricted on a double frontage lot to the minor
of the two streets or to the front line as determined at the time of platting
or as defined by this Zoning Code.
         (4)   “Lot, interior” means a lot other than a corner lot.
      S.   “Lot line” means a property boundary line of record that divides one
lot from another lot or a lot from the public or private street right-of-way or
easement. Once established, lot lines may not be redefined due to a change of
address which would result in a new definition of the prior defined lot lines.
         (1)   “Lot line, front” means the lot line separating a lot and a
public or private street right-of-way or easement:
            a.   In the case of an interior lot, the front lot line is the line
separating the lot from the right-of-way or easement;
            b.   In the case of a corner lot, the front lot line is the shorter
lot line abutting a public or private street or easement. In instances of equal
line dimension, the front lot line shall be determined by the Building
Official, or as may be noted on the final plat.
            c.   In the case of a double frontage lot, the front lot line is
the line separating the lot from the right-of-way or easement of the more minor
street. In cases where each street has the same classification, the front lot
line shall be determined by the Building Official at the time of application
for the original Building Permit for the lot, or as may be noted on the final
plat.
         (2)   “Lot line, rear” means the lot line which is opposite and most
distant from the front line.
         (3)   “Lot line, side” means any lot line that is neither a front nor
rear lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from a street, private way, or
court is a street side lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from another
lot or lots is an interior side lot line.
      T.   “Lot width” means the horizontal distance measured between the side
lot lines of a lot, at right angles to its depth along a straight line parallel
to the front lot line at the minimum required setback line.
      U.   “Low voltage landscape lighting” means landscape lighting powered at
less than 15 volts and limited to luminaires having a rated initial luminaire
lumen output of 525 lumens or less.
      V.   “Lumen” means the unit of measure used to quantify the amount of
light produced by a lamp or emitted from a luminaire (as distinct from “watt,”
a measure of power consumption).
      W.   “Luminaire” means the complete lighting unit (fixture), consisting
of a lamp, or lamps and ballasts (when applicable), together with the parts
designed to distribute the light (reflector, lens, diffuser), to position and
protect the lamps, and to connect the lamps to the power supply.
      X.   “Luminaire lumens” means luminaires with relative photometry per
IES, it is calculated as the sum of the initial lamp lumens for all lamps
within an individual luminaire, multiplied by the luminaire efficiency. If the
efficiency is not known for a residential luminaire, assume 70 percent. For
luminaires with absolute photometry per IES LM-79, it is the total luminaire
lumens. The lumen rating of a luminaire assumes the lamp or luminaire is new
and has not depreciated in light output.
      Y.   “Lux” means the SI unit of illuminance. One lux is one lumen per
square meter. One lux is a unit of incident illuminance approximately equal to
1/10 footcandle.
   13.   Words beginning with “M.”
      A.   “Main entrance” means that entrance of the building which is most
architecturally prominent and contains operable doors. If multiple entrances
are equal, the entrance that faces the most used street.
      B.   “Maintenance facilities” means a public facility supporting
maintenance, repair, vehicular or equipment servicing, material storage, and
similar activities including street or sewer yards, equipment service centers,
and similar uses having characteristics of commercial services or contracting
or industrial activities.
      C.   “Manufactured home dwelling” means a factory-built, single-family
dwelling structure which is to be used as a place for human habitation, which
is manufactured or constructed under the authority of 42 U.S. 3. Sec. 5403,
Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, and which is not
constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or other device allowing it to
be moved other than to a permanent site, and which does not have permanently
attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles. A mobile home constructed to
the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards promulgated by
the US Department of Housing and Urban Development is not a manufactured home
unless it has been converted to real property and is taxed as a site-built
dwelling as is provided in Section 435 of the Code of Iowa. For the purpose of
any of these regulations, a manufactured home shall be considered the same as a
single-family detached dwelling.
      D.   “Medical offices” means the use of a site for facilities which
provide diagnoses and outpatient care on a routine basis, but which do not
provide prolonged, in-house medical or surgical care. Medical offices are
operated by doctors, dentists, or similar practitioners licensed for practice
in the State.
      E.   “Mixed-use” means a single building containing two or more types of
land uses; or a single development of more than one building and use, where the
different types of land uses are in close proximity, planned as a unified
complementary whole, and functionally integrated to the use of shared vehicular
and pedestrian access and parking areas.
      F.   “Mixed-use development” means a single development which
incorporates complementary land use types into a single development.
      G.   “Mobile home” means a building type designed to be transportable in
one or more sections, constructed on a permanent chassis or undercarriage, and
designed to be used as a dwelling unit or other use with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities, but not bearing a seal
attesting to the approval and issuance of the Iowa Department of Health or
conformance to the Manufactured Home Procedural and Enforcement Regulations, as
adopted by the US Department of Housing and Urban Development; or not otherwise
satisfying the definition of “manufactured home dwelling.”
      H.   “Mobile home park” means a unified development under single
ownership, developed, subdivided, planned, and improved for the placement of
mobile home units for non-transient use. Mobile home parks include common areas
and facilities for management, recreation, laundry, utility services, storage,
storm shelter, and other services; but do not include mobile home sales lots on
which unoccupied mobile homes are parked for the purposes of display,
inspection, sale, or storage.
      I.   “Motel.” See “Lodging.”
      J.   “Mounting height” means the height of the photometric center of a
luminaire above grade level.
   14.   Words beginning with “N.”
      A.   “Nonconforming development” means a building, structure, or
improvement which does not comply with the regulations for its zoning district
set forth by this Zoning Code, but which complied with applicable regulations
at the time of construction. No action can be taken which would increase the
nonconforming characteristics of the development.
      B.   “Nonconforming lot” means a lot which was lawful prior to the
adoption, revision, or amendment of this Zoning Code, but that fails by reason
of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present requirements
of this Zoning Code. No action can be taken which would increase the
nonconforming characteristics of the lot.
      C.   “Nonconforming structure” means a structure which was lawful prior
to the adoption, revision, or amendment of this Zoning Code, but that fails by
reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present
requirements of this Zoning Code. No action can be taken which would increase
the nonconforming characteristics of the structure.
      D.   “Nonconforming use” means a land use which was lawful prior to the
adoption, revision, or amendment of this Zoning Code, but that fails by reason
of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present requirements
of this Zoning Code. No action can be taken which would increase the
nonconforming characteristics of the land use.
      E.   “Nuisance” means an unreasonable and continuous invasion of the use
and enjoyment of a property right which a person would find annoying,
unpleasant, obnoxious, or offensive.
   15.   Words beginning with “O.”
      A.   “Object” means a permanent structure located on a site. Objects may
include statues or artwork, garages or canopies, outbuildings, etc.
      B.   “Object height” means the highest point of an entity but shall not
include antennas or similar structures.
      C.   “Open space” means any area within a single site or lot that is not
covered by a building, structure, parking lot, or driveway. Sidewalks and
patios may be counted as open space. Open space is an area which serves the
need for leisure, recreation, or pedestrian interaction. Spaces may include,
but are not limited to, plaza areas, open lawn areas, trails, recreation
facilities, gardens, and pedestrian walkways.
      D.   “Outdoor lighting” means lighting equipment installed within the
property line and outside the building envelopes, whether attached to poles,
building structures, the earth, or any other location; and any associated
lighting control equipment.
      E.   “Outdoor storage” means the storage of materials, parts, or products
that are related to the primary use of a site for a period exceeding three
days.
      F.   “Overlay District” means a district established by this Zoning Code
to prescribe special regulations to be applied to a site only in combination
with a Base Zoning District.
      G.   “Owner” means an individual, firm, association, syndicate,
partnership, or corporation having sufficient proprietary interest to seek the
development of land.
   16.   Words beginning with “P.”
      A.   “Parapet” means a low, solid, protective screening or decorative
wall, often used around a balcony, or along the edge of a roof to screen roof
equipment.
      B.   “Parking facility” means an area on a lot or within a building,
including one or more parking spaces, along with provision for access
circulation, maneuvering, and landscaping, meeting the requirements of this
Zoning Code. Parking facilities include parking lots, private garages, and
parking structures. Vehicle storage is distinct from parking and is regulated
by provisions of
Chapter 174.
      C.   “Parking space” means an area on a lot or within a building,
intended for the use of temporary parking of a personal vehicle. This term is
used interchangeably with “parking stall.” Each parking space must have a means
of access to a public street. Tandem parking stalls in single-family detached,
single-family attached, and townhouse residential uses shall be considered to
have a means of access to a public street.
      D.   “Parking structure” means the use of a site for a multi-level
building which provides for the parking of motor vehicles on a temporary basis,
other than as an accessory to a principal use on the same site.
      E.   “Paved” means permanently surfaced with poured concrete, concrete
pavers, masonry units, brick, or asphalt.
      F.   “Pawnbroker” means a person or individual, group of individuals,
partnership, association, corporation, or any other business unit or legal
entity who for a fee:
         (1)   Accepts a check, draft, share draft, or other instrument for the
payment of money dated subsequent to the date it was written.
         (2)   Accepts a check, draft, share draft, or other instrument for the
payment of money dated on the date it was written and holds it for a period of
time prior to deposit or presentment pursuant to an agreement with, or any
representation made to, the maker of the check, draft, or other instrument
whether express or implied.
      G.   “Pawn shop” means the location at which or premises upon which a
pawnbroker regularly conducts business. Pawnbroker is defined in
Chapter 124.
      H.   “Permitted use” means a land use type allowed as a matter of right
in a zoning district, subject only to special requirements of this Zoning Code.
      I.   “Personal services” means establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in the provision of services of a personal nature. Typical
uses include beauty and barber shops; seamstress, tailor, or shoe repair shops;
photography studios; or dry-cleaning stations serving individuals and
households, driving schools, health or physical fitness studios, reducing
salons, dance studios, handicraft, and hobby instruction.
      J.   “Pet services” means pet health services and grooming and boarding,
when totally within a building, of dogs, cats, birds, fish, and similar small
animals customarily used as household pets. Typical uses include pet stores,
small animal clinics, dog bathing and clipping salons, and pet grooming shops,
but exclude uses for livestock and large animals.
      K.   “Photoelectric switch” means a control device employing a photocell
or photodiode to detect daylight and automatically switch lights off when
sufficient daylight is available.
      L.   “Planned Unit Development” means a development of land which is
under unified control and is planned and developed as a whole in a single
development operation or programmed series of development stages. The
development may include streets, circulation ways, utilities, buildings, open
spaces, and other site features and improvements.
      M.   “Planning Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission of
the City, as authorized pursuant to Chapter 414 of the Code of Iowa.
      N.   “Plaza” means a public square or an open space.
      O.   “Porch, unenclosed” means a roofed or unroofed open structure
projecting from an exterior wall of a building and having no enclosed features
more than 30 inches above its floor other than wire screening and a roof with
supporting structure.
      P.   “Postal facilities” means postal services, including post offices,
bulk mail processing, or sorting centers operated by the United States Postal
Service.
      Q.   “Premises” means a lot, parcel, tract, or plot of land, contiguous
and under common ownership or control, together with the buildings and
structure thereon.
      R.   “Primary building frontage” means the building frontage that is most
accessed by patrons or users of the building.
      S.   “Primary street frontage” means the building frontage that
corresponds to the main street that provides access to the primary building
frontage for the structure or building. In the case of corner lots, both of the
streets the building fronts are considered to be primary street frontages.
      T.   “Private garage” means a building for the storage of motor vehicles
where no repair service facilities are maintained and where no motor vehicles
are kept for rental or sale.
      U.   “Property line.” See “Lot line.”
      V.   “Public assembly” means facilities owned and operated by a public
agency or a charitable nonprofit organization accommodating the public for
recreation, sports, amusement, religious worship, religious education, or
entertainment purposes. Typical uses include civic or community auditoriums,
sports stadiums, convention facilities, fairgrounds, incidental sales, and
exhibition facilities.
   17.   Words beginning with “Q.”
   18.   Words beginning with “R.”
      A.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle towed or self-propelled on
its own chassis or attached to the chassis of another vehicle and designed or
used for temporary dwelling, recreational, or sporting purposes. Recreational
vehicles include, but are not limited to, travel trailers; campers; motor coach
homes; converted buses and trucks, snowmobiles, boats, and boat trailers.
      B.   “Recycling collection” means any site which is used, in whole or
part, for the receiving or collection of any post-consumer, non-durable goods
including, but not limited to, glass, plastic, paper, cardboard, aluminum, tin,
or other recyclable commodities.
      C.   “Recycling processing” means any site which is used for the
processing of any post-consumer, non-durable goods including, but not limited
to, glass, plastic, paper, cardboard, aluminum, tin, or other recyclable
commodities.
      D.   “Regulation” means a specific requirement set forth by this Zoning
Code which must be followed.
      E.   “Relative photometry” means photometric measurements made of the
lamp plus luminaire, adjusted to allow for light loss due to reflection or
absorption within the luminaire. Reference standard: IES LM-63.
      F.   “Research services” means establishments primarily engaged in
research of an industrial or scientific nature. Typical uses include
electronics research laboratories, space research and development firms,
testing laboratories, or pharmaceutical research labs.
      G.   “Residential” means the use of a site for one or more dwelling
units.
         (1)   “Residential, accessory dwelling unit” means an additional, non-
principal residential dwelling unit located on the same lot as a single-family
residence that is either attached or detached from the single-family residence.
         (2)   “Residential, downtown” means the use of upper levels above the
street level of a building within the Urban Center District of the City for
single- or multiple-family residential uses.
         (3)   “Residential, duplex” means a residential use with two dwelling
units contained within the same structure. Units do not have to contain a
common wall and may be above or below each other.
         (4)   “Residential, multi-family” means a residential use with more
than three units on a single lot in which all units do not contain at least one
common wall with another unit. Units do not have to contain a common wall and
may be above or below each other. Also known as residential, multiple-family.
         (5)   “Residential, single-family detached” means a single-family
residential use in which one dwelling unit is located on a single lot, with no
physical or structural connection to any other dwelling unit.
         (6)   “Residential, townhomes” means a townhome residential use with
six or more units, in which the dwelling units have a common wall with or
abutting one or more adjacent dwelling units in a townhouse structure, with its
own front and rear access to the outside, and neither above nor below any other
dwelling unit.
      H.   “Resource extraction” means a use involving on-site extraction of
surface or subsurface mineral products or natural resources, excluding the
grading and removal of dirt. Typical uses are quarries, borrow pits, sand and
gravel operations, and mining.
      I.   “Restaurant, drive-in or fast-food” means an establishment whose
principal business is cooking and preparation of food to sell for consumption
within a motor vehicle parked on the premises or within the restaurant
building, or any combination thereof, and whose principal method of operation
includes the following characteristics as contrasted to a standard restaurant;
designed to attract and depend upon a large volume of customers; limited,
relatively low-cost menu items; quick-order service at a window or counter,
from where the customer generally carries the food to another counter or table
for consumption; and most food is served in or on paper, plastic or other
disposable containers; and any other restaurant not defined as a standard
restaurant.
      J.   “Restaurant, general” means an establishment whose principal
business is cooking and preparation of food to sell for consumption within the
restaurant building and whose principal method of operation is characterized by
customers being seated by a restaurant employee and provided with an individual
menu, and who are served by a restaurant employee at the same table or counter
at which food and beverages are consumed; also including cafeteria line service
offering a wide selection of main courses and other menu items, including
restaurants with limited drive-thru service to customers in a motor vehicle.
Delicatessens, establishments whose principal business is the sale of pizza or
of ice cream, yogurt, coffee, or milk products are specifically included in the
definition.
      K.   “Retirement residence” means a building, or group of buildings,
which provide residential facilities for four or more residents of at least 50
years of age, or households headed by a householder of at least 50 years of
age. A retirement residence may provide a range of residential building types
and may also provide support services to residents, including, but not limited
to, food service, general health supervision, medication services, housekeeping
services, personal services, recreation facilities, and transportation
services. The retirement residence may accommodate food preparation in
independent units or meal service in one or more common areas. Retirement
residences with more than 50 living units may include additional health care
supervision or nursing care, provided that the number of beds for such
residences shall not exceed 25 percent of the total number of individual living
units. Typical uses include continuing care retirement centers.
      L.   “Right-of-way” means an area dedicated for public use or contained
in an easement or other conveyance or grant to the City, including, but not
limited to, streets, alleys, boulevards, sidewalks, public greenways, and other
public property between the lateral property lines in which a roadway lies.
   19.   Words beginning with “S.”
      A.   “Safety services” means facilities for the conduct of public safety
and emergency services including police and fire protection services and
emergency medical and ambulance services.
      B.   “Salvage services” means places of business primarily engaged in the
storage, sale, dismantling, or other processing of used or waste materials
which are not intended for reuse in their original forms. Typical uses include
automotive wrecking yards, junk yards, or paper salvage yards.
      C.   “Screening” means the method by which a view of one site from
another adjacent site is shielded, concealed, or hidden. Screening techniques
include fences, walls, hedges, berms, or other features as may be permitted by
the landscape provisions of this Code.
      D.   “Secondary educational facilities” means a public, private, or
parochial school offering instruction at the junior high or high school level
in the branches of learning and study required to be taught in the schools of
the State.
      E.   “Setback” means the distance, as required by the minimum setback,
which establishes the horizontal component of the building envelope.
      F.   “Short Term Vacation Rental” (STVR) means a lodging service that
provides overnight or short-term accommodations to guests and visitors. For the
purpose of this definition, STVRs are always owned and operated by the resident
owner of the structure and accommodate each guest or visitor for no more than
14 consecutive days during any one-month period. For the purpose of this
definition, the lodging service must be approved by a national accommodation
service such as Airbnb, VRBO, or other similar services. To be used as an STVR,
property owners shall reside at the residence a minimum of 180 calendar days
per year.
      G.   “Shrub” means a small woody plant generally less than 12 feet in
height that is either deciduous or evergreen.
      H.   “Sign” is any device, display, or structure that is visible from a
public place and that has words, letters, figures, designs, symbols, logos,
illumination, or projected images. This definition does not include
architectural elements incorporated into the structure or façade of a building.
For the purposes of this Sign Code, “signs” do not include those only visible
from the inside of a building or athletic field or stadium; nor do “signs”
include those held by or attached to a person. Sign regulations are set forth
in
Chapter 175.
         (1)   “Sign, abandoned” means a sign, including sign face and
supporting structure, which refers to a discontinued business, profession,
commodity, service, or other activity or use formerly occupying the site; or
which contains no sign copy on all sign faces for a continuous period of six
months.
         (2)   “Sign, attached” means a sign which is structurally connected to
a building or depends upon that building for support.
         (3)   “Sign, auxiliary design elements” means terms which describe
secondary characteristics of a sign, including its method of illumination and
other features within the bounds of its basic shape.
         (4)   “Sign, awning” means a temporary or movable shelter supported
entirely from the exterior wall of a building and composed of non-rigid
materials, except for a supporting framework. An awning sign is a message
printed on such a shelter.
         (5)   “Sign, banner” means material with a printed message or graphic
secured or mounted from a structure in such a way as to allow wind movement
under which pedestrian or vehicle traffic passes, but does not include signs or
materials under which peoples or traffic do not pass, such as that tied or
secured within or to a window or porch opening, or tied or secured flush
against a building.
         (6)   “Sign, billboard” means a freestanding sign that is at least 14
feet by 30 feet.
         (7)   “Sign, detached” means a sign which is self-supporting and
structurally independent from any building.
         (8)   “Sign, directional” means a sign which serves only to designate
the location or direction of any area or place.
         (9)   “Sign, double-faced” means a sign consisting of no more than two
parallel faces supported by a single structure.
         (10)   “Sign, electronic changeable copy” means a sign, or portion
thereof with characters, letters, or illustrations that can be changed or
rearranged manually without altering the face or surface of the sign.
         (11)   “Sign, ground” means a detached on-premises sign built on a
freestanding frame, mast, or pole with a clearance no greater than three feet.
         (12)   “Sign, marquee” means a permanent roofed structure attached to
and supported by a building and extending over the public right-of-way.
         (13)   “Sign, maximum permitted area” means the maximum permitted
combined area of all signs allowed on a specific property.
         (14)   “Sign, monument” means an on-premises freestanding sign with
the appearance of a solid base. The base shall be at least 75 percent of the
sign.
         (15)   “Sign, moving” means a sign which conveys its message through
rotating, changing, or animated elements.
         (16)   “Sign, nonconforming” means a sign that was legally erected
prior to the adoption, revision, or amendment of this Zoning Code but that
fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment, to conform to the
present requirements of this Zoning Code. No action can be taken which would
increase the nonconforming characteristics of the sign.
         (17)   “Sign, pole” means an on-premises sign, including any flag,
built on a freestanding frame, mast, or pole with a clearance greater than
three feet, and where the support encompasses less than 75 percent of the width
of the sign.
         (18)   “Sign, portable” means any sign supported by frames or posts
rigidly attached to bases not permanently attached to the ground or a building
and capable of being moved from place to place.
         (19)   “Sign, roof” means any sign or part of a sign erected upon,
against, or directly above a roof or on top of or above the parapet or cornice
of a building.
            a.   “Integral roof sign” means a roof sign positioned between an
eave line and the peak or highest point on a roof, substantially parallel to
the face of a building.
            b.   “Above-peak roof sign” means a roof sign positioned above the
peak of a roof or above a parapet or cornice.
         (20)   “Sign, sidewalk” means a portable sign that is placed on the
sidewalk close to an establishment. These are traditionally in the shape of an
“A” or an inverted “T.”
         (21)   “Sign, temporary” means a sign constructed of cloth, canvas,
vinyl, paper, plywood, fabric, plastic, or other lightweight material that is
neither permanently installed in the ground nor permanently affixed to a
building or structure that is permanently installed in the ground, and which is
displayed less than 60 days. The term “temporary sign” includes, but is not
limited to, A-frame signs, lawn signs, banners, and inflatable signs. The term
“temporary sign” does not include flags and signs that are intended to
regularly move, such as a moving sign.
         (22)   “Sign, wall” means a sign attached to and parallel with the
side of a building, including works of graphic art painted or applied to
building walls.
         (23)   “Sign, window” means a sign painted on or installed inside a
window for the purpose of viewing from outside the premises. Window signs do
not include messages, signs, or speech hung from or exercised in the interior
of the home which are visible from the exterior of the home. Residents may
elect for window signs to count towards residential signs or temporary signs.
      I.   “Sign area” means the area of the surface of the sign to be
measured.
         (1)   “Signs on a background” require the entire area of the framework
or background of the sign.
         (2)   “Sign with a base” require the background, not including the
base.
         (3)   “Individually mounted letters or features” requires a rectangle
that would encompass each word or feature.
         (4)   “Signs with two faces” requires the larger of two faces to be
measured.
         (5)   “3-D signs” requires 50 percent of a rectangular prism that
encompasses the object.
      J.   “Site” means the parcel of land to be developed or built upon. A
site may encompass a single lot or a group of lots developed as a common
development under the special and overlay districts provisions of this Zoning
Code.
      K.   “Site plan” means a plan, prepared to scale, showing accurately and
with complete dimensioning, the boundaries of a site and the location of all
buildings, structures, uses, and principal site development features proposed
for a specific parcel of land, and which includes any other information that
may reasonably be requested by the City in order that an informed decision can
be made on the associated request.
      L.   “Small wind energy system” means a wind energy conversion system
consisting of a wind turbine, a tower, and associated control or conversion
electronics, which has a rated capacity of not more than 100 kilowatts (kW),
and which is intended to primarily reduce on-site consumption of utility-
supplied electricity.
      M.   “Story” means the portion of a building included between the surface
of any floor and the surface of the next floor above it or, if there is no
floor above it, the space between such floor and the next ceiling above it. A
half story is a story under a sloped roof, the wall heights of which on at
least two opposite exterior walls are less than four feet.
      N.   “Street” means a right-of-way dedicated to public use, which affords
a primary means of access to the abutting property. This definition is intended
to be inclusive of the term as defined in Iowa statutes.
         (1)   In regard to a site, the principal street shall be the street to
which the majority of lots on a blockface are oriented; and
         (2)   The intersecting street shall be a street other than a principal
street.
      O.   “Street façade” means any separate external face of a building,
including parapet walls and omitted wall lines, oriented to and facing a public
street, private way, or court. Separate faces oriented in the same direction or
within 45 degrees of one another are considered part of the same street façade.
      P.   “Street, local” means a street which is used primarily for access to
the abutting properties.
      Q.   “Street, major” means a street carrying traffic between
neighborhoods, connecting neighborhoods with major activity centers, or
accommodating major through traffic. Major streets are designated as
collectors, arterials, or expressways by the Comprehensive Plan.
      R.   “Streetscape” means a combination of vegetation, amenities such as
bike racks, and special visual features along either side of vehicular travel
lanes for the purpose of aesthetics or shade.
      S.   “Structure” means any object constructed or built, the use of which
requires location on the ground or attachment to something located on the
ground.
      T.   “Surplus sales” means businesses engaged in the sale of used or new
items, involving regular, periodic outdoor display of merchandise for sale.
Typical uses include flea markets and factory outlets or discount businesses
with outdoor displays.
   20.   Words beginning with “T.”
      A.   “Temporary structure” means any shed, structure, building, trailer,
tent, or enclosure of any kind used for storage, commercial, business, or
residential purposes which any person or business intends to place on the same
lot with or on any lot immediately adjacent to, any permanent structure used
for business or commercial or residential purposes. This term includes
“temporary portable storage container,” which is defined as a large container
designed and rented or leased for the temporary storage of commercial,
industrial, or residential household goods and that does not contain a
foundation or wheels for movement. All other words or phrases shall have the
same meaning assigned to them in Chapter 166.
      B.   “Temporary use” means a conduct of an activity or the performance of
a function or operation on a site or in a building or facility that is not
intended to be permanent.
         (1)   “Temporary use (short-term)” means a short-term use with a
maximum duration of four consecutive days or less.
         (2)   “Temporary use (long-term)” means a long-term use in duration of
more than four consecutive days but less than six months.
      C.   “Time switch” means an automatic lighting control device that
switches lights according to the time of day.
      D.   “Total extended height” means the height above grade to a blade tip
at its highest point.
      E.   “Tower height” means the height above grade of the fixed portion of
the tower, excluding the wind turbine itself.
      F.   “Trade services” means establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in the provision of services that are not retail or primarily
dedicated to walk-in clientele. These services often involve services to
construction or building trades and may involve a small amount of screened,
outdoor storage in appropriate zoning districts. Typical uses include shops or
operating bases for plumbers, electricians, or HVAC (heating, ventilating, and
air conditioning) contractors.
      G.   “Translucent” means allowing light to pass through, diffusing it so
that objects beyond cannot be seen clearly (not transparent or clear).
      H.   “Transportation terminal” means a facility for loading, unloading,
and interchange of passengers, baggage, and incidental freight or package
express, including bus terminals, railroad stations, and public transit
facilities.
      I.   “Truck terminal” means a facility for the receipt, transfer, short
term storage, and dispatching of goods transported by truck.
   21.   Words beginning with “U.”
      A.   “Unshielded luminaire” means a luminaire capable of emitting light
in any direction including downwards.
      B.   “Uplight” means for an exterior luminaire, flux radiated in the
hemisphere at or above the horizontal plane.
      C.   “Use” means the conduct of an activity or the performance of a
function or operation on a site or in a building or facility.
      D.   “Utilities” means any above-ground structure or facilities other
than lines, poles, and other incidental facilities or installations, either
above or below ground, necessary for the production, generation, transmission,
delivery, collection, treatment, or storage of water, solid or fluid wastes,
stormwater, energy media, gas, electronic or electromagnetic signals, or other
services which are precedent to development and use of land.
   22.   Words beginning with “V.”
      A.   “Vertical illuminance” means illuminance measured or calculated in a
plane perpendicular to the site boundary or property line.
      B.   “Veterinary services” means veterinary services and hospitals for
animals. Typical uses include pet clinics, dog and cat hospitals, pet
cemeteries, and veterinary hospitals for livestock and large animals.
      C.   “Vision-clearance triangle” means a triangle with legs of 15 feet
from the point at which the curbs or edges of two intersecting streets, private
ways, or courts or an intersecting street, private way, or court and driveway,
meet at grade.
   23.   Words beginning with “W.”
      A.   “Warehousing” means uses including open-air storage, distribution,
and handling of goods and materials, but not including storage of hazardous
materials. Typical uses include monument yards or open storage.
   24.   Words beginning with “X.”
   25.   Words beginning with “Y.”
      A.   “Yard, required” means that portion of a lot which lies between a
lot line and the corresponding building setback line or the required landscape
area. This area shall be unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward
except as may be specifically provided for or required by this Zoning Code.
         (1)   “Front yard” means the space extending the full width of a lot,
lying between the front lot line and the front setback line. For a corner lot,
the front yard shall normally be defined as that yard along a street which
meets one of the following two criteria:
            a.   The yard along the blockface to which a greater number of
structures are oriented; or
            b.   The yard along a street that has the smaller horizontal
dimension.
         (2)   “Interior side yard” means the space extending the depth of a
lot from the front to rear lot lines, lying between the side yard setback line
and the interior lot line.
         (3)   “Rear yard” means the space extending the full width of a lot,
lying between the rear lot line and the rear setback line.
         (4)   “Street side yard” means, on a corner lot, the space extending
from the front yard to the rear yard, between the street side yard setback line
and the street side lot line.
   26.   Words beginning with “Z.”
      A.   “Zoned lot” means a parcel of land in single ownership that is large
enough to meet the minimum zoning requirements of its zoning district and can
provide such yards and other open spaces that are required by the site
development regulations.
      B.   “Zoning district” means a designated specified land classification,
within which all sites are subject to a unified group of use and site
development regulations set forth in this Zoning Code.
CHAPTER 167
ZONING CODE - USE TYPES
 
167.01 Purpose                167.07 Commercial Use Types
167.02 Determinations         167.08 Parking Use Types
167.03 Agricultural Use Types 167.09 Industrial Use Types
167.04 Residential Use Types  167.10 Transportation Use Types
167.05 Civic Use Types        167.11 Miscellaneous Use Types
167.06 Office Use Types
 
167.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a classification system for land
uses and a consistent set of terms defining uses permitted or conditionally
permitted within various zoning districts. This chapter also provides a
procedure for determining the applicable use type of any activity not clearly
within any defined use type.
167.02   DETERMINATIONS.
   1.   Classification of Uses. In the event of any question as to the
appropriate use types of any existing or proposed use or activity, the Zoning
Administrator of the City shall have the authority to determine the appropriate
use type. A determination of the Zoning Administrator may be appealed to the
Board of Adjustment. In making such determinations, the Zoning Administrator
and Board of Adjustment shall consider such characteristics or specific
requirements of the use in common with those included as examples of use types.
Those examples, when included in use type descriptions, are intended to be
illustrative, as opposed to exclusive lists.
   2.   Records. The Zoning Administrator shall make all such determinations of
appropriate use types in writing. The record of the determination shall contain
a report explaining the reasons for the determination.
167.03   AGRICULTURAL USE TYPES.
Agricultural use types include the on-site production and sale of plant and
animal products by agricultural methods.
   1.   Horticulture. The growing of horticultural and floricultural
specialties, such as flowers, shrubs, or trees intended for ornamental or
landscaping purposes. This definition may include accessory retail sales under
certain conditions. Typical uses include wholesale plant nurseries and
greenhouses.
   2.   Crop Production. The raising and harvesting of tree crops, row crops,
or field crops on an agricultural or commercial basis. This definition may
include accessory retail sales under certain conditions.
   3.   Animal Production. The raising of animals or production of animal
products, such as eggs or dairy products on an agricultural or commercial basis
on a site which is also used for crop production or where grazing of natural
vegetation is the major feed source; or the raising of animals for recreational
use. Typical uses include grazing, ranching, dairy farming, and poultry
farming.
167.04   RESIDENTIAL USE TYPES.
Residential use types include uses providing wholly or primarily non-transient
living accommodations. They exclude institutional living arrangements providing
24-hour skilled nursing or medical care, forced residence, or therapeutic
settings.
   1.   Single-Family Residential. The use of a site for one dwelling unit,
occupied by one family. † 9   
      A.   “Detached single-family residential” means a single-family
residential use in which one dwelling unit is located on a single lot, with no
physical or structural connection to any other dwelling unit.
      B.   “Attached single-family residential” means a single-family
residential use in which one dwelling unit is located on a single lot and is
attached by a common vertical wall to only one other adjacent dwelling unit on
another single lot.
   2.   Duplex Residential. The use of a legally described lot for two dwelling
units, each occupied by one family within a single building, excluding mobile
home units, but including modular housing units.
   3.   Two-Family Residential. The use of a site for two dwelling units, each
occupied by one family, each in a separate building, excluding a mobile home
unit.
   4.   Townhouse Residential. The use of a site for three or more attached
dwelling units, each occupied by one family and separated by vertical side
walls extending from foundation through roof without openings. Each townhouse
unit must have at least two exposed exterior walls.
   5.   Multiple-Family Residential. The use of a site for three or more
dwelling units within one building.
   6.   Downtown Residential. The use of upper levels above street level of a
building within the Town Center District of the City for single- or multiple-
family residential uses.
   7.   Group Residential. The use of a site for a residence by four or more
unrelated persons, not defined as a family, on a weekly or longer basis.
   8.   Manufactured Home Residential. The use of a site for one or more
manufactured home dwellings, as defined in
Chapter 166.
   9.   Mobile Home Park. The use of a site under single ownership for one or
more mobile home units. Generally, the land on which mobile homes are placed in
a mobile home park is leased from the owner of the facility.
   10.   Retirement Residence. A building or group of buildings which provide
residential facilities for four or more residents of at least 50 years of age,
or households headed by a householder of at least 50 years of age. A retirement
residence may provide a range of residential building types and may also
provide support services to residents, including, but not limited to, food
service, general health supervision, medication services, housekeeping
services, personal services, recreation facilities, and transportation
services. The retirement residence may accommodate food preparation in
independent units or meal service in one or more common areas. Retirement
residences with more than 50 living units may include additional health care
supervision or nursing care, provided that the number of beds for such
residences shall not exceed 25 percent of the total number of individual living
units. Typical uses include continuing care retirement centers.
 
Notes
9 †  EDITOR’S NOTE: Mobile home units are not a single-family use type. See
  following categories for such units.
167.05   CIVIC USE TYPES.
Civic use types include the performance of utility, educational, recreational,
cultural, medical, protective, governmental, and other uses which are strongly
vested with social importance.
   1.   Administration. Governmental offices providing administrative,
clerical, or public contact services that deal directly with the citizen,
together with incidental storage and maintenance of necessary vehicles. Typical
uses include federal, State, County, and City offices.
   2.   Cemetery. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead
and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including columbaria, crematoria,
mausoleums, and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the
boundary of such cemetery.
   3.   Clubs. Uses providing meeting, recreational, or social facilities for a
private, nonprofit, or non-commercial association, primarily for use by members
and guests.
   4.   College and University Facilities. An educational institution of higher
learning which offers courses of study designed to culminate in the issuance of
a degree certified by a generally recognized accrediting organization.
   5.   Convalescent Services. Uses providing bed care and in-patient services
for persons requiring regular medical attention but excluding a facility
providing surgical or emergency medical services and excluding a facility
providing care for alcoholism, drug addiction, mental illness, or communicable
disease. Typical uses include nursing homes.
   6.   Cultural Services. A library, museum, or similar registered nonprofit
organizational use displaying, preserving, and exhibiting objects of community
and cultural interest in one or more of the arts and sciences.
   7.   Daycare Services (Limited). This use type includes all classifications
of day care facilities regulated by the State that operate providing care for
not more than six children. This term includes nursery schools, preschools,
daycare centers for children or adults, and similar uses, but excludes public
and private primary and secondary educational facilities.
   8.   Daycare Services (General). This use type includes all classifications
of day care facilities regulated by the State that operate providing care for
more than six children. This term includes nursery schools, preschools, daycare
centers for children or adults, and similar uses, but excludes public and
private primary and secondary educational facilities.
   9.   Detention Facilities. A publicly operated or contracted use providing
housing and care for individuals legally confined, designed to isolate those
individuals from the community.
   10.   Emergency Residential Services. A facility or use of a building to
provide a protective sanctuary for victims of crime or abuse, including
emergency housing during crisis intervention for victims of rape, abuse, or
physical beatings; such facilities being limited to no more than three victims
at any one time.
   11.   Family Home. A facility as defined in Section 414.22 of the Code of
Iowa, including, but not limited to, elder family homes and elder group homes.
      A.   Elder Family Home. A facility as defined in Section 231A of the Code
of Iowa.
      B.   Elder Group Home. A facility as defined in Section 231B of the Code
of Iowa.
   12.   Group Care Facility. A government-licensed or approved facility which
provides for resident care and short or long-term, continuous multi-day
occupancy of more than eight, but no more than 30, unrelated persons, not
including resident staff. Group care facilities include facilities which
provide services in accordance with individual needs for the:
      A.   Adaptation to living with, or rehabilitation from, the handicaps of
physical disability.
      B.   Adaptation to living with, or rehabilitation from, the handicaps of
emotional or mental disorder or developmental disabilities.
      C.   Rehabilitation from the effects of drug or alcohol abuse.
      D.   Supervision while under a program alternative to imprisonment,
including, but not limited to, pre-release, work-release, and probationary
programs.
      E.   Others who require direct adult supervision.
   13.   Group Home. A facility licensed by the State in which at least three,
but no more than eight, persons (not including resident managers or house
parents), who are unrelated by blood, marriage, or adoption, reside while
receiving therapy, training, living assistance, or counseling for the purpose
of adaptation to living with or rehabilitation from a physical or mental
disability as defined by the relevant provisions of the Code of Iowa or by the
Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988.
   14.   Guidance Services. A use providing counseling, guidance, recuperative,
or similar services to persons requiring rehabilitation assistance as a result
of mental illness, alcoholism, detention, drug addiction, or similar condition
on a daytime care basis.
   15.   Health Care. A facility providing medical, psychiatric, or surgical
service for sick or injured persons exclusively on an outpatient basis
including emergency treatment, diagnostic services, training, administration,
and services to outpatients, employees, or visitors.
   16.   Hospital. A facility providing medical, psychiatric, or surgical
service for sick or injured persons primarily on an inpatient basis, including
emergency treatment, diagnostic services, training, administration, and
services to patients, employees, or visitors.
   17.   Maintenance Facilities. A public facility supporting maintenance,
repair, vehicular or equipment servicing, material storage, and similar
activities including street or sewer yards, equipment service centers, and
similar uses having characteristics of commercial services or contracting or
industrial activities.
   18.   Park and Recreation Services. Publicly owned and operated parks,
playgrounds, recreation facilities, and open spaces.
   19.   Postal Facilities. Postal services, including post offices, bulk mail
processing or sorting centers operated by the United States Postal Service.
   20.   Primary Educational Facilities. A public, private, or parochial school
offering instruction at the elementary school level in the branches of learning
study required to be taught in schools within the State.
   21.   Public Assembly. Facilities owned and operated by a public agency or a
charitable nonprofit organization accommodating major public assembly for
recreation, sports, amusement, or entertainment purposes. Typical uses include
civic or community auditoriums, sports stadiums, convention facilities,
fairgrounds, incidental sales, and exhibition facilities.
   22.   Religious Assembly. A use located in a permanent building and
providing regular organized religious worship and religious education
incidental thereto (excluding private primary or private secondary educational
facilities, community recreational facilities, daycare facilities, and
incidental parking facilities). A property tax exemption obtained pursuant to
Property Tax Code of the State shall constitute prima facie evidence of
religious assembly use.
   23.   Safety Services. Facilities for conduct of public safety and emergency
services, including police and fire protection services and emergency medical
and ambulance services.
   24.   Secondary Educational Facilities. A public, private, or parochial
school offering instruction at the junior high or high school level in the
branches of learning and study required to be taught in the schools of the
State.
   25.   Utilities. Any above-ground structures or facilities, other than
lines, poles, and other incidental facilities, used for the production,
generation, transmission, delivery, collection, or storage of water, sewage,
electricity, delivery, collection, or storage of water, sewage, electricity,
gas, oil, energy media, communications, electronic or electromagnetic signals,
or other services which are precedent to development or use of land.
167.06   OFFICE USE TYPES.
Office use types include uses providing for administration, professional
services, and allied activities. These uses often invite public clientele but
are more limited in external effects than commercial uses.
   1.   General Offices. Use of a site for business, professional, or
administrative offices. Typical uses include real estate, insurance,
management, travel, or other business offices; organization and association
offices; banks or financial offices; or professional offices.
   2.   Financial Services. Provision of financial and banking services to
consumers or clients. Walk-in and drive-in services to consumers are provided
on-site. Typical uses include banks, savings and loan associations, savings
banks, and loan companies. An ATM (automatic teller machine) which is not
accompanied on-site by an office of its primary financial institution is
considered a general retail services use type.
   3.   Medical Offices. Use of a site for facilities which provide diagnoses
and outpatient care on a routine basis, but which do not provide prolonged, in-
house medical or surgical care. Medical offices are operated by doctors,
dentists, or similar practitioners licensed for practice in the State.
   4.   Delayed Deposit Services Business. A person or individual, group of
individuals, partnership, association, corporation, or any other business unit
or legal entity who for a fee accepts a check, draft, share draft, or other
instrument for the payment of money dated subsequent to the date it was written
or accepts a check, draft, share draft, or other instrument for the payment of
money dated on the date it was written and holds it for a period of time prior
to deposit or presentment pursuant to an agreement with, or any representation
made to, the maker of the check, draft, or other instrument whether express or
implied.
167.07   COMMERCIAL USE TYPES.
Commercial uses include the sale, rental, service, and distribution of goods;
and the provision of services other than those classified under other use
types.
   1.   Agricultural Sales and Service. Establishments or places of business
engaged in sale from the premises of feed, grain, fertilizers, farm equipment,
pesticides, and similar goods or in the provision of agriculture-related
services with incidental storage on lots other than where the service is
rendered. Typical uses include nurseries, hay, farm implement dealerships, feed
and grain stores, and tree service firms.
   2.   Automotive and Equipment Services. Establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in sale or service of automobiles, trucks, or heavy
equipment. The following are considered automotive and equipment use types:
      A.   Automotive Rental and Sales. Sale or rental of automobiles,
noncommercial trucks, motorcycles, motor homes, recreational vehicles or boats,
including incidental storage, maintenance, and servicing. Typical uses include
new and used car dealerships; motorcycle dealerships; and boat, trailer, and
recreational vehicle dealerships.
      B.   Auto Services. Provision of fuel, lubricants, parts and accessories,
and incidental services to motor vehicles; and washing and cleaning or repair
of automobiles, non-commercial trucks, motorcycles, motor homes, recreational
vehicles, or boats, including the sale, installation, and servicing of
equipment and parts. Typical uses include service stations, car washes, muffler
shops, auto repair garages, tire sales and installation, wheel and brake shops,
and similar repair and service activities, but exclude dismantling, salvage, or
body and fender repair services.
      C.   Body Repair. Repair, painting, or refinishing of the body, fender,
or frame of automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, motor homes, recreational
vehicles, boats, tractors, construction equipment, agricultural implements, and
similar vehicles or equipment. Typical uses include body and fender shops,
painting shops, and other similar repair or refinishing garages.
      D.   Equipment Rental and Sales. Sale or rental of trucks, tractors,
construction equipment, agricultural implements, mobile homes, and similar
heavy equipment, including incidental storage, maintenance, and servicing.
Typical uses include truck dealerships, construction equipment dealerships, and
mobile home sales establishments.
      E.   Equipment Repair Services. Repair of trucks, tractors, construction
equipment, agricultural implements, and similar heavy equipment. Typical uses
include truck repair garages, tractor and farm implement repair services, and
machine shops, but exclude dismantling, salvage, or body and fender repair
services.
      F.   Vehicle Storage. Storage of operating or non-operating vehicles for
a period of no more than 21 days. Typical uses include storage of private
parking tow-aways or impound yards but exclude dismantling or salvage. Long-
term storage of operating or non-operating vehicles beyond 21 days constitutes
an industrial use type.
   3.   Bed and Breakfast. A lodging service that provides overnight or short-
term accommodations to guests or visitors, usually includes provision of
breakfast. Bed and breakfasts are usually located in large residential
structures that have been adapted for this use. For the purpose of this
definition, bed and breakfasts are always owned and operated by the resident
owner of the structure, include no more than 10 units, and accommodate each
guest or visitor for no more than seven consecutive days during any one-month
period.
   4.   Business Support Services. Establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in the sale, rental, or repair of equipment, supplies, and
materials or the provision of services used by office, professional, and
service establishments to the firms themselves, but excluding automotive,
construction, and farm equipment; or engaged in the provision of maintenance or
custodial services to businesses. Typical uses include office equipment and
supply firms, small business machine repair shops or hotel equipment and supply
firms, janitorial services, photography studios, and convenience printing and
copying.
   5.   Business or Trade Schools. A use providing education or training in
business, commerce, language, or other similar activity or occupational
pursuit, and not otherwise defined as a home occupation, college or university,
or public or private educational facility.
   6.   Campground. Facilities providing camping or parking areas and
incidental services for travelers in recreational vehicles or tents, which
accommodate each guest or visitor for no more than seven consecutive days
during any one-month period.
   7.   Cocktail Lounge. A use engaged in the preparation and retail sale of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, including taverns, bars,
cocktail lounges, and similar uses other than a restaurant as that term is
defined in this section.
   8.   Commercial Recreation. Private businesses or other organizations, which
may or may not be commercial by structure or by nature, which are primarily
engaged in the provision or sponsorship of sports, entertainment, or recreation
for participants or spectators. Typical uses include driving ranges, theaters,
private dance halls, or private skating facilities. Commercial recreation is
divided into the following categories:
      A.   Commercial Recreation (Limited). Facilities which include a
structure of 10,000 square feet or less or a site covering an area of no more
than one-half acre.
      B.   Commercial Recreation (General). Facilities which include a
structure of more than 10,000 square feet or a site covering an area of more
than one-half acre.
   9.   Communications Services. Establishments primarily engaged in the
provision of broadcasting and other information relay services accomplished
through the use of electronic and telephonic mechanisms, but not including
those classified as utilities. Typical uses include television studios,
telecommunication service centers, telegraph service offices, or film and sound
recording facilities. Broadcast towers and their minor ancillary ground
structures are classified as miscellaneous use types.
   10.   Construction Sales and Services. Establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in wholesale or retail sales, from the premises, of materials
used in the construction of buildings or other structures, other than retail
sale of paint, fixtures, and hardware. This use type excludes those uses
classified under automotive and equipment services. Typical uses include
building materials sales or tool and equipment rental or sales.
   11.   Consumer Services. Establishments which provide services primarily to
individuals and households but excluding automotive use types. Typical uses
include automated banking machines, appliance repair shops, watch or jewelry
repair shops, or musical instrument repair shops.
   12.   Convenience Storage. Storage services primarily for personal effects
and household goods within enclosed storage areas having individual access, but
excluding use of such areas as workshops, hobby shops, manufacturing, or
commercial activity. Typical uses include mini-warehousing.
   13.   Firework Sales. Establishments selling consumer first class fireworks
and consumer second class fireworks. A firework seller license issued by the
State Fire Marshal is required. Firework establishments must comply with all
standards of the National Fire Protection Act 1124.
   14.   Food Sales. Establishments or places of business primarily engaged in
the retail sale of food or household products for home consumption. Typical
uses include groceries, delicatessens, meat markets, retail bakeries, and candy
shops.
      A.   Convenience Food Sales. Establishments occupying facilities of less
than 10,000 square feet; and characterized by sales of specialty foods or a
limited variety of general items, and by the sales of fuel for motor vehicles.
      B.   Limited Food Sales. Establishments occupying facilities of less than
10,000 square feet; and characterized by sales of specialty foods or a limited
variety of general items but excluding the accessory sale of fuel for motor
vehicles. Typical uses include delicatessens, meat markets, retail bakeries,
candy shops, and small grocery stores.
      C.   General Food Sales. Establishments selling a wide variety of food
commodities, using facilities larger than 10,000 square feet. Typical uses
include supermarkets.
   15.   Funeral Services. Establishments engaged in undertaking services such
as preparing the human dead for burial and arranging and managing funerals.
Typical uses include funeral homes or mortuaries.
   16.   Gaming Facilities. Establishments engaged in the lawful, on-site
operation of games of chance that involve the risk of money for financial gain
by patrons. Gaming facilities shall include the accessory sale of liquor and
food, pursuant to licensing regulations of the City or the State.
   17.   General Retail Services (Small and Large Scale). Sale or rental with
incidental service of commonly used goods and merchandise for personal or
household use but excludes those classified more specifically by these use type
classifications. Typical uses include department stores, apparel stores,
furniture stores, or establishments providing the following products or
services: household cleaning and maintenance products; drugs, cards,
stationery, notions, books, tobacco products, cosmetics, and specialty items;
flowers, plants, hobby materials, toys, and handcrafted items; apparel jewelry,
fabrics and like items; cameras, photographic services, household electronic
equipment, records, sporting equipment, kitchen utensils, home furnishing and
appliances, art supplies and framing, arts and antiques, paint and wallpaper,
hardware, carpeting and floor covering; interior decorating services; retail
sales of pets; office supplies; mail order or catalog sales; bicycles; and
automotive parts and accessories (excluding service and installation).
      A.   General retail services (small scale) include facilities with no
more than 10,000 square feet in a single establishment or 30,000 square feet
within a multiple-tenant common development.
      B.   General retail services (large scale) include facilities of 10,000
or more square feet in a single establishment or 30,000 square feet within a
multiple-tenant common development.
   18.   Kennels. Boarding and care services for dogs, cats, and similar small
mammals or large birds; or any premises on which three or more animals included
under this definition over four months of age are kept and maintained. Typical
uses include boarding kennels, ostrich-raising facilities, pet motels, or dog-
training centers.
   19.   Laundry Services. Establishments primarily engaged in the provision of
laundering, cleaning, or dyeing services other than those classified as
personal services. Typical uses include bulk laundry and cleaning plans, diaper
services, or linen supply services.
   20.   Liquor Sales. Establishments or places of business engaged in retail
sale for off-premises consumption of alcoholic beverages. Typical uses include
liquor stores, bottle shops, or any licensed sales of liquor, beer, or wine for
off-site consumption.
   21.   Lodging. Lodging services involving the provision of room or board but
not meeting the classification criteria of bed and breakfasts. Typical uses
include the following definitions:
      A.   “Extended stay hotel or motel” means any structure consisting of one
or more buildings, with more than five specific dwelling units with provisions
for living, eating, contain kitchen facilities for food preparation including,
but not limited to, refrigerators, stoves and ovens, sanitation, separate
bathroom and kitchen sink, and sleeping in each unit, that is specifically
constructed, kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public to
be a place where temporary residence is offered for pay to persons, for a
minimum stay of more than 30 days and a maximum stay of 10 months within the
dwelling units at the structure, that is approved pursuant to a valid
Certificate of Occupancy issued by the Building Official having jurisdiction as
having all of the required dwelling unit features, and for which such valid
Certificate of Occupancy indicates the specific rooms within the structure that
can be used as dwelling units, and that is approved by the Fire Marshal for
extended stay temporary residence purposes. Each room shall be a minimum of 275
square feet in area, exclusive of bathroom, closet, or balcony space. Weekly
services for each dwelling unit of linen change, towel change, soap change,
general cleanup, and a registration lobby staffed on a 12-hour daily basis and
24-hour daily registration and emergency phone number are provided by the
management. Each extended stay dwelling unit and facilities are subject to the
City’s rental inspection outlined in Chapter 156. For the purposes of parking
requirements, extended stay hotel or motels will have to meet the multi-family
residential parking requirements.
      B.   “Hotel” means one or more buildings containing 20 or more guest
rooms, with such rooms being designed or intended to be used, or which are used
as temporary or overnight accommodations for guests in which daily services of
linen change, central telephone switchboard, towel change, soap change, general
cleanup, and a registration lobby staffed on a 24-hour daily basis are provided
by the management. Each room shall be a minimum of 250 square feet in area,
exclusive of bathroom, closet, or balcony space. No room may be used by the
same person or persons for a period exceeding 30 days per year. Access to all
rooms shall be provided through one or more common entrances. Accessory uses
are encouraged and permitted accessory uses include restaurants, cocktail
lounges, banquet halls, ballrooms, or meeting rooms.
      C.   “Motel” means a building, or group of buildings, containing dwelling
units, intended to be used or which are used as temporary or overnight
accommodations for guests, in which daily services of linen change, central
telephone switchboard, towel change, soap change, general cleanup, and a
registration lobby staffed on a 12-hour daily basis and 24-hour daily
registration and emergency phone number are provided by the management. Each
room shall be a minimum of 250 square feet in area, exclusive of bathroom,
closet, or balcony space. No room may be used by the same person or persons for
a period exceeding 30 days per year. Each living or sleeping unit shall have an
individual entrance from outside the building. Living or sleeping units may be
equipped with cooking facilities. Parking close to the entrance of each living
or sleeping unit should be made available.
   22.   Pawn Shop. The location at which or premises upon which a pawnbroker
regularly conducts business. Pawnbroker is defined in
Chapter 124.
   23.   Personal Improvement Services. Establishments primarily engaged in the
provision of informational, instructional, personal improvements, and similar
services of a non-professional nature. Typical uses include driving schools,
health or physical fitness studios, reducing salons, dance studios, handicraft
and hobby instruction.
   24.   Personal Services. Establishments or places of business primarily
engaged in the provision of services of a personal nature. Typical uses include
beauty and barber shops; seamstress, tailor, or shoe repair shops; photography
studios; or dry-cleaning stations serving individuals and households, driving
schools, health or physical fitness studios, reducing salons, dance studios,
handicraft and hobby instruction.
   25.   Pet Services. Pet health services and grooming and boarding, when
totally within a building, of dogs, cats, birds, fish, and similar small
animals customarily used as household pets. Typical uses include pet stores,
small animal clinics, dog bathing and clipping salons, and pet grooming shops,
but exclude uses for livestock and large animals.
   26.   Research Services. Establishments primarily engaged in research of an
industrial or scientific nature. Typical uses include electronics research
laboratories, space research and development firms, testing laboratories, or
pharmaceutical research labs.
   27.   Restaurant, Drive-In or Fast-Food. An establishment whose principal
business is cooking and preparation of food to sell for consumption within a
motor vehicle parked on the premises or within the restaurant building, or any
combination thereof, and whose principal method of operation includes the
following characteristics as contrasted to a standard restaurant; designed to
attract and depend upon a large volume of customers; limited, relatively low-
cost menu items; quick-order service at a window or counter, from where the
customer generally carries the food to another counter or table for
consumption; and most food is served in or on paper, plastic, or other
disposable containers; and any other restaurant not defined as a standard
restaurant.
   28.   Restaurant, General. An establishment whose principal business is
cooking and preparation of food to sell for consumption within the restaurant
building and whose principal method of operation is characterized by customers
being seated by a restaurant employee and provided with an individual menu, and
who are served by a restaurant employee at the same table or counter at which
food and beverages are consumed; also including cafeteria line service offering
a wide selection of main courses and other menu items, including restaurants
with limited drive-thru service to customers in a motor vehicle. Delicatessens,
establishments whose principal business is the sale of pizza or of ice cream,
yogurt, coffee, or milk products are specifically included in the definition.
   29.   Restricted Businesses. Any business activity which offers the
opportunity to view sexual activities or view or touch anatomical areas for
entertainment purposes in a manner that offends contemporary standards in the
community of the City, depicts or describes sexual conduct in a patently
offensive way, and lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific
value. This category includes the sale or viewing of visual or print materials
that meet these criteria. Typical uses include retail services or stores which
are distinguished by an emphasis on activities or materials that emphasize
sexual content; businesses which offer live performances characterized by
exposure of specified anatomical areas; and adult theaters.
   30.   Short Term Vacation Rental (STVR). A lodging service that provides
overnight or short-term accommodations to guests and visitors. For the purpose
of this definition, STVRs are always owned and operated by the resident owner
of the structure and accommodate each guest or visitor for no more than 14
consecutive days during any one-month period. For the purpose of this
definition, the lodging service must be approved by a national accommodation
service such as Airbnb, VRBO, or other similar service. To be used as an STVR,
property owner shall reside at the residence a minimum of 180 calendar days per
year.
   31.   Stables or Riding Academies. The buildings, pens, and pasture areas
used for the boarding and feeding of horses, llamas, or other equine not owned
by the occupants of the premises. This use includes instruction in riding,
jumping, and showing or the riding of horses or equine for hire.
   32.   Surplus Sales. Businesses engaged in the sale of used or new items,
involving regular, periodic outdoor display of merchandise for sale. Typical
uses include flea markets and factory outlets or discount businesses with
outdoor display.
   33.   Trade Services. Establishments or places of business primarily engaged
in the provision of services that are not retail or primarily dedicated to
walk-in clientele. These services often involve services to construction or
building trades and may involve a small amount of screened, outdoor storage in
appropriate zoning districts. Typical uses include shops or operating bases for
plumbers, electricians, or HVAC (heating, ventilating, and air conditioning)
contractors.
   34.   Vehicle Storage. Short-term storage of operating or non-operating
vehicles for a period of no more than 21 days. Typical uses include storage of
private parking tow-aways or impound yards but exclude dismantling or salvage.
Long-term storage beyond 21 days constitutes an industrial use type.
   35.   Veterinary Services. Veterinary services and hospitals for animals.
Typical uses include pet clinics, dog and cat hospitals, pet cemeteries, and
veterinary hospitals for livestock and large animals.
167.08   PARKING USE TYPES.
   1.   Off-Street Parking Lots and Facilities. Parking use types include
surface parking of motor vehicles on a temporary basis within a privately or
publicly owned off-street parking facility.
   2.   Parking Structure. The use of a site for a multi-level building which
provides for the parking of motor vehicles on a temporary basis, other than as
an accessory to a principal use on the same site.
167.09   INDUSTRIAL USE TYPES.
Industrial use types include the on-site extraction or production of goods by
non-agricultural methods and the storage and distribution of products.
   1.   Construction Yards. Establishments housing facilities of businesses
primarily engaged in construction activities, including incidental storage of
materials and equipment on lots other than construction sites. Typical uses are
building contractor’s yards.
   2.   Custom Manufacturing. Establishments primarily engaged in the on-site
production of goods by hand manufacturing, within enclosed structures,
involving:
      A.   The use of hand tools; or
      B.   The use of domestic mechanical equipment not exceeding two
horsepower; or
      C.   A single kiln not exceeding eight KW or equivalent.
      D.   This category also includes the incidental direct sale to consumers
of only those goods produced on site. Typical uses include ceramic studios,
custom jewelry manufacturing, and candle making shops.
   3.   Light Industry. Establishments engaged in the manufacture or processing
of finished products from previously prepared materials, including processing,
fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of such products, and
incidental storage, sales, and distribution. These establishments are
characterized by having no major external environmental effects across property
lines and include no unscreened or un-enclosed outdoor storage. Typical uses
include commercial bakeries, dressed beef processing plants, soft drink
bottling, apparel assembly from fabrics, electronics, manufacturing, print
shops, and publishing houses.
   4.   General Industry. Enterprises engaged in the processing, manufacturing,
compounding, assembly, packaging, storage, treatment, or fabrication of
materials and products from prepared materials or from raw materials without
noticeable noise, odor, vibration, or air pollution effects across property
lines.
   5.   Heavy Industry. Enterprises involved in the basic processing and
manufacturing of products, predominately from raw materials, with noticeable
noise, odor, vibration, or air pollution effects across property lines; or a
use or process engaged in the storage of or processes involving potentially or
actually hazardous, explosive, flammable, radioactive, or other commonly
recognized hazardous materials.
   6.   Recycling Collection. Any site which is used, in whole or part, for the
receiving or collection of any post-consumer, non-durable goods including, but
not limited to, glass, plastic, paper, cardboard, aluminum, tin, or other
recyclable commodities.
   7.   Recycling Processing. Any site which is used for the processing of any
post-consumer, non-durable goods including, but not limited to, glass, plastic,
paper, cardboard, aluminum, tin, or other recyclable commodities.
   8.   Resource Extraction. A use involving on-site extraction of surface or
subsurface mineral products or natural resources, excluding the grading and
removal of dirt. Typical uses are quarries, borrow pits, sand and gravel
operations, and mining.
   9.   Salvage Services. Places of business primarily engaged in the storage,
sale, dismantling or other processing of used or waste materials which are not
intended for reuse in their original forms. Typical uses include automotive
wrecking yards, junk yards, or paper salvage yards.
   10.   Vehicle Storage (Long-Term). Long-term storage of operating or non-
operating vehicles for a period exceeding 21 days. Typical uses include storage
of private parking tow-aways or impound yards but exclude dismantling or
salvage.
   11.   Warehousing. Uses including open-air storage, distribution, and
handling of goods and materials, but not including storage of hazardous
materials. Typical uses include monument yards or open storage.
167.10   TRANSPORTATION USE TYPES.
Transportation use types include the use of land for the purpose of providing
facilities supporting the movement of passengers and freight from one point to
another.
   1.   Aviation Facilities. Landing fields, aircraft parking and service
facilities, and related facilities for operation, service, fueling, repair,
storage, charter, sales, and rental of aircraft, and including activities
directly associated with the operation and maintenance of airport facilities
and the provision of safety and security.
   2.   Railroad Facility. Railroad yards, equipment servicing facilities, and
terminal facilities.
   3.   Transportation Terminal. Facility for loading, unloading, and
interchange of passengers, baggage, and incidental freight or package express,
including bus terminals, railroad stations, and public transit facilities.
   4.   Truck Terminal. A facility for the receipt, transfer, short term
storage, and dispatching of goods transported by truck.
167.11   MISCELLANEOUS USE TYPES.
   1.   Alternative Energy Production Devices. The use of a site for the
production of energy utilizing methods that do not involve the oxidation,
combustion, or fission of primary materials. Typical uses include solar
collector fields, geothermal energy installations, or water-powered mills or
generating facilities.
   2.   Broadcasting Tower. A structure for the transmission or broadcasting of
radio, television, radar, or microwaves, ordinarily exceeding the maximum
height permitted in its zoning district.
   3.   Amateur Radio Tower. A structure for the transmission or broadcasting
of electromagnetic signals by FCC-licensed amateur radio operators.
   4.   Construction Batch Plant. A temporary demountable facility used for the
manufacturing of cement, concrete, asphalt, or other paving materials intended
for specific construction projects.
   5.   Wind Enemy Conservation System (WECS). Any device which converts wind
energy to a form of usable energy, including wind charges, windmills, or wind
turbines.
   6.   Landfill (Non-Putrescible Solid Waste Disposal). The use of a site as a
depository for solid wastes that do not readily undergo chemical or biological
breakdown under conditions normally associated with land disposal operations.
Typical disposal material would include ashes, concrete, paving wastes, rock,
brick, lumber, roofing materials, and ceramic tile.
   7.   Landfill (Putrescible and Non-Putrescible Solid Waste Disposal). The
use of a site as a depository for any solid waste except hazardous and toxic
waste as defined by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency or the State.
Typical disposal material would include non-putrescible wastes and putrescible
wastes such as vegetation, tree parts, agricultural wastes (garbage) and
manure.
CHAPTER 168
ZONING REGULATIONS - ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
 
168.01 Purpose                    168.05 Zoning Map
168.02 Establishment of Districts 168.06 Interpretation of District Boundaries
168.03 Application of Districts   168.07 Vacation of Streets and Alleys
168.04 Development Regulations    168.08 Permitted Uses
 
168.01   PURPOSE.
   This chapter presents the Zoning District Regulations. Zoning Districts are
established in this Zoning Code to promote compatible land use patterns and to
establish site development regulations appropriate to the purposes and specific
nature of each district.
168.02   ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
The following base districts and overlay districts are hereby established.
Table 168.08-01 displays the purposes of these districts.
Base Zoning District District Name
Base Zoning District District Name
R-1                  Low Intensity Residential District
R-2                  Urban Family Residential District
R-3                  Multiple-Family Residential District
MH                   Mobile Home Residential District
CC                   Community Commercial District
UC                   Urban Center District
LI                   Limited Industrial District
Overlay District     District Name
PUD                  Planned Unit Development Overlay District
F                    Floodplain or Floodway Overlay District
 
168.03   APPLICATION OF DISTRICTS.
   A base district designation shall apply to each lot or site within the City
and its planning jurisdiction. Each site must be in one base district. The
Planned Unit Development and Floodplain or Floodway Overlay Districts may be
applied to any lot or site, or any portion thereof, in addition to any base
district designation.
168.04   DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   For each zoning district: Purposes are set forth in Table 168.08-01; uses
permitted are set forth in Table 168.08-02; and site development regulations
are presented in Table 168.08-03. Supplemental regulations may affect specific
land uses or development regulations in each zoning district. The applicable
supplemental regulations are noted in Table 168.08-02.
168.05   ZONING MAP.
   1.   Adoption of Zoning Map. Boundaries of zoning districts established by
this Zoning Code shall be shown on the Zoning Map maintained by the Clerk. This
map, together with all legends, references, symbols, boundaries, and other
information, shall be adopted as a part of and concurrent with this Code. The
Zoning Map shall be prominently displayed in the Council Chambers or an area
accessible to the public at City Hall.
   2.   Changes to the Zoning Map. The Zoning Map may be changed by ordinance,
following the procedure set forth by
Chapter 177. Such changes shall be reflected on the Zoning Map. The Zoning
Administrator shall keep a complete record of all changes to the Zoning Map.
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances have been adopted amending the Official Zoning Map
described in Section
168.05 of this chapter and have not been codified herein but have been
specifically saved from repeal and are in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE ADOPTED ORDINANCE ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances have been adopted amending the Official Zoning Map
described in Section
168.05 of this chapter and have not been codified herein but have been
specifically saved from repeal and are in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE ADOPTED          ORDINANCE ADOPTED
98-1      February 2, 1998
99-2      April 5, 1999
2-Jul     July 16, 2007
3-Sep     April 6, 2009
19-07     October 21, 2019
 
168.06   INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
The following rules shall apply in determining the boundaries of any zoning
district shown on the Zoning Map.
   1.   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot
lines, such lot lines shall be considered the district boundaries.
   2.   Where district boundaries are indicated as within street or alley,
railroad, or other identifiable rights-of-way, the centerline of such rights-
of-way shall be deemed the district boundary.
   3.   Where a district boundary divides a property, the location of the
boundary shall be determined by the use of the scale appearing on the Zoning
Map.
   4.   The Council shall determine any other uncertainty regarding district
boundaries not covered in this section.
168.07   VACATION OF STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Whenever a public street or alley is vacated, the zoning district adjoining
each side of such right-of-way shall be extended out to the former centerline.
168.08   PERMITTED USES.
Table 168.08-01 Purposes of Zoning Districts
Symbol Title Purpose
Table 168.08-01 Purposes of Zoning Districts
Symbol Title                             Purpose
                                         This district is intended to provide
                                         for low to medium-density residential
                                         neighborhoods, characterized by
                                         single-family and two-family dwellings
                                         on moderately sized lots with
                                         supporting community facilities and
R-1    Low Intensity Density Residential urban services. Its regulations apply
                                         to established parts of the City and
                                         to new areas which are developed to
                                         higher residential densities.
                                         Regulations are intended to minimize
                                         traffic congestion and to assure that
                                         density is consistent with the
                                         carrying capacity of infrastructure
                                         This district is intended to provide
                                         for medium-density residential
                                         neighborhoods, characterized by
                                         single-family dwellings on small to
                                         moderately sized lots and low-density,
                                         multiple-family development. It
                                         provides special regulations to
                                         encourage innovative forms of housing
R-2    Urban Family Residential          development. It adapts to both
                                         established and newer neighborhoods,
                                         as well as transitional areas between
                                         single-family and multi-family
                                         neighborhoods. Its regulations are
                                         intended to minimize traffic
                                         congestion and to assure that density
                                         is consistent with the carrying
                                         capacity of infrastructure
                                         This district is intended to provide
                                         locations primarily for residential
                                         multiple-family housing, with
                                         supporting and appropriate community
R-3    Multiple-Family Residential       facilities. It also permits some
                                         nonresidential uses, such as offices,
                                         through a special permit procedure, to
                                         permit the development of mixed-use
                                         neighborhoods
                                         This district recognizes that mobile
                                         home development, properly planned,
                                         can provide important opportunities
                                         for affordable housing. It provides
MH     Mobile Home Residential           opportunities for mobile home
                                         development within planned parks or
                                         subdivisions, along with the
                                         supporting services necessary to
                                         create quality residential
                                         neighborhoods
                                         This district is intended for
                                         commercial facilities which serve the
                                         needs of markets ranging from several
CC     Community Commercial              neighborhoods to the overall region.
                                         CC Districts are appropriate at major
                                         intersections, at the junction of
                                         several neighborhoods, or at
                                         substantial commercial sub-centers
                                         This district recognizes the mixed-use
                                         character primarily along the
                                         University Avenue corridor, which is
                                         the principal route through the center
UC     Urban Center                      of the City. This district contains a
                                         combination of residential,
                                         commercial, and office uses and is
                                         known for its walkability and main
                                         street feel
                                         This district is intended to reserve
                                         sites appropriate for the location of
                                         industrial uses with relatively
                                         limited environmental effects. The
LI     Limited Industrial                district is designed to provide
                                         appropriate space and regulations to
                                         encourage good quality industrial
                                         development while assuring that
                                         facilities are served with adequate
                                         parking and loading facilities
Special and Overlay Districts: These districts may be applied to a parcel in
combination with a Base Zoning District. Overlay Districts are intended to help
the City manage development in areas that exhibit special characteristics or
features that warrant a greater differentiation of standards.
Special and Overlay Districts include:
Planned Unit Development District.
Floodplain/Floodway District.
Specific purposes and standards for each Overlay District are detailed in
Chapter 169: Special and Overlay Districts.
 
Table 168.08-02 Permitted Uses by Zoning District
Use Types R-1 R-2 R-3 MH CC UC LI
Table 168.08-02 Permitted Uses by Zoning District
Use Types                             R-1 R-2 R-3 MH CC UC LI
Administration                        C   C   C   C  P  P  P
Adult Entertainment                                        C
Agricultural Sales or Service                        C     P
Alternative Energy Production DevicesC   C   C   C  C     P
Amateur Radio Tower                  P   P   P   P  P  P  P
Animal Production                                          C
Auto Rental or Sales                                 P     P
Auto Services                                        P  C  P
Bars                                                 P  P  P
Bed and Breakfast                     C   C   C      P  P
Body Repair                                          C     P
Broadcasting Tower                                   C     C
Business Support                                     P  P  P
Business or Trade School                             P  P  P
Cemetery                              C   C   C
Civic Organizations                   C   C   C   C  P  P
College/University                    C   C   C   C  P  C
Commercial Breeders                                        P
Commercial Recreation (General)                      C  C  P
Commercial Recreation (Limited)                      P  P  P
Communications Services                              P  P  P
Construction Batch Plant                                   P
Construction Sales/Service                           P     P
Construction Yards                                         C
Consumer Services                                    P  P  P
In-Patient Services                   C   C   C   C  P  C
Convenience Storage                                  C     P
Crop Production
Cultural Services                     C   C   P   P  P  P  P
Custom Manufacturing                                 C  C  P
Daycare (General)                     C   C   P   C  P  P  C
Daycare (Limited)                     P   P   P   P  P  P  C
Detention Facilities                                       C
Emergency Residential                 C   C   C   C  P  P  C
Equipment Rental or Sales                                  P
Equipment Repair                                           P
Family Home                           C   C   P   C     P
Financial Services                            C      P  P  P
Firework Sales                                             P
Food Sales (Convenience)                             P  C
Food Sales (General)                                 P  C
Food Sales (Limited)                                 P  P
Funeral Services                          C   C      P  P
Gaming Facility                                      C  C
General Industry                                           C
General Offices                               C      P  P  P
General Retail (Large-Scale)                         P  C
General Retail (Small-Scale)                         P  P
Group Care Facility                   C   C   P   C  P  P  C
Group Home                            C   C   P   P  P  P
Guidance Services                             C      P  P  P
Health Care (Large-Scale)                     C      C  C  C
Health Care (Small-Scale)                 C   C      P  P  P
Heavy Industry                                             C
Horticulture                                         C
Landfill (Putrescible)                                     C
Landfill (Non-Putrescible)                                 C
Laundry Services                                     P  C  P
Liquor Sales                                         P  P
Light Industry                                             P
Lodging                                              P  P
Maintenance Facility                                       P
Manufactured Housing Residential      P   P   P   P
Medical Offices                               C      P  P  P
Mobile Home Park                                  C
Off-Street Parking                                   C  C  P
Parking Structure                                    C  P  P
Parks and Recreation                  P   P   P   P  P  P  P
Pawn Shop                                                  C
Pet Services                                         P  C  P
Postal Facilities                                    P  P  P
Primary Education                     P   P   P   P  P  P
Public Assembly                       P   P   P   P  P  P
Railroad Facilities                                        P
Recycling Collection                                 C     P
Recycling Processing                                       C
Repair Services                                            P
Research Services                                    P  P  P
Residential, Accessory Dwelling Unit  P   P   P   P     P
Residential, Downtown                                   P
Residential, Duplex                   C   P   P         P
Residential, Multi-Family                 C   P      C  P
Residential, Single-Family Detached   P   P   P   P     P
Residential, Townhouse                    C   P      C  P
Resource Extraction                                        C
Restaurants (Drive-In)                               P  C  P
Restaurants (General)                                P  P  C
Retirement Residential                C   C   P   C     C
Safety Services                       C   C   P   P  P  P  P
Salvage Services                                           C
Secondary Education                   C   C   C   C  P  P
Surplus Sales                                        C  C  P
STVR (Short Term Vacation Rental)     P   P   P   P  P  P
Trade Services                                       P  C  P
Transportation Terminal                              P  C  P
Truck Terminal                                             C
Utilities                             C   C   C   C  P  P  P
Vehicle Storage (Short-term)                               P
Vehicle Storage (Long-term)                                C
Veterinary Services                                  P  P  P
Warehousing                                                C
Note:
P = Uses Permitted by Right
C = Uses Permitted by Conditional Use Permit approval according to
Section
177.03
Blank = Use Not Permitted
 
Table 168.08-03 Summary of Site Development Regulations
Regulator R-1 R-2 R-3 MH CC UC LI
Table 168.08-03 Summary of Site Development Regulations
Regulator                                 R-1   R-2   R-3   MH      CC     UC    LI
                                                            See
Minimum Lot Area (square feet)          7,200 7,200 7,200 Section 10,000 5,000 10,000
                                                            172.02
                                                            See
Minimum Lot Width (feet)                50    50    50    Section 50     25    50
                                                            172.02
Minimum Yards Setbacks (feet)
                                                            See
Front Yard Setback                        25    25    25    Section 15     0     25
                                                            172.02
                                                            See
Street Side Yard Setback                 25    25    25    Section 15     0     25
                                                            172.02
                                                            See
Interior Side Yard Setback               5     5     5     Section 10     0     25
                                                            172.02
                                                            See
Rear Yard Setback                         15    15    15    Section 20     10    25
                                                            172.02
Maximum Height (feet)
                                                            See
Main Building                             35    35    35    Section 60     60    45
                                                            172.02
                                                            See
Accessory Building                        25    25    25    Section
                                                            172.02
                                                            See
Maximum Building Coverage                40%   50%   50%   Section 60%    60%   70%
                                                            172.02
Maximum Impervious Coverage              65%   65%   65%   50%     80%    N/A   80%
Maximum Residential Units Per Acre (du/ 7.5   10    20    20      20     50    0
ac)
Lighting Zone                             LZ-1  LZ-1  LZ-2  LZ-2    LZ-3   LZ-3  LZ-2
 
CHAPTER 169
ZONING REGULATIONS - OVERLAY DISTRICTS
 
169.01 General Purpose 169.02 Planned Unit Development District
 
169.01   GENERAL PURPOSE.
Overlay Districts provide for base districts that allow multiple land uses and
flexible development, with the requirement that a specific plan for the area be
submitted by applicants. Overlay Districts are used in combination with base
districts to modify or expand base district regulations. Overlay Districts are
adapted to the special needs of different parts of the City. The Overlay
Districts are designed to achieve the following objectives:
   1.   To recognize special conditions in specific parts of the City which
require specific regulation.
   2.   To provide flexibility in development and to encourage innovative
design through comprehensively planned projects.
169.02   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
The Planned Unit Development (PUD) Overlay District is intended to provide
flexibility in the design of planned projects, to permit innovation in project
design that incorporates open space and other amenities, and to ensure
compatibility of developments with the surrounding urban environment. The PUD
District may be used in combination with any base district specified in this
Zoning Code. The PUD District, which is adopted by the Council with the
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, assures specific
development standards for each designated project. All projects in the PUD
District shall follow the procedures set forth in
Chapter 170.
   1.   Permitted Uses. Uses permitted in a PUD Overlay District are those
permitted in the underlying base district.
   2.   Site Development Regulations. Site development regulations are
developed individually for each Planned Unit Development District but must
comply with minimum or maximum standards established for the base district,
with the following exceptions:
      A.   Lot area and lot width are not restricted, provided that the maximum
density allowed for each base district is not exceeded.
      B.   Maximum building coverage shall be the smaller of the allowed
building coverage in the base district, or 60 percent.
   3.   Access to Public Streets. Each PUD District must abut a public street
for at least 50 feet and gain access from that street.
   4.   Adoption of District.
      A.   The Planning and Zoning Commission and Council shall review and
evaluate each Planned Unit Development application. The City may impose
reasonable conditions, as deemed necessary, to ensure that a PUD shall be
compatible with adjacent land uses, will not overburden public services and
facilities, and will not be detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare.
      B.   The Planning and Zoning Commission, after proper notice, shall hold
a public hearing and act upon each application.
      C.   The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend amendments to PUD
District applications.
      D.   The recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be
transmitted to the Council for final action.
      E.   The Council, after proper notice, shall hold a public hearing and
act upon any ordinance establishing a Planned Unit Development Overlay
District. Proper notice shall mean the same notice established for any other
zoning amendment.
      F.   An ordinance adopting a Planned Unit Development Overlay Zoning
District shall require a favorable simple majority of the Council for approval.
      G.   Upon approval by the Council, the Development Plan shall become a
part of the ordinance creating or amending the PUD District. All approved plans
shall be filed with the Clerk.
   5.   Amendment Procedure. Major amendments to the Development Plan must be
approved according to the same procedure set forth in Subsection 4 of this
section.
   6.   Building Permits. The City shall not issue a Building Permit,
Certificate of Occupancy, or other permit for a building, structure, or use
within a PUD District unless it is in compliance with the approved Development
Plan and any approved amendments.
   7.   Termination of PUD District. If no substantial development has taken
place in a Planned Unit Development District for 18 months following approval
of the District, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall reconsider the zoning
of the property and may, on its own motion, initiate an application for
rezoning the property.
CHAPTER 170
ZONING CODE - DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN STANDARDS
 
170.01 Purpose and Scope                170.05 Amendment
170.02 Development and Design Standards 170.06 Site Review
170.03 Jurisdiction                     170.07 Site Plan Review Requirements
170.04 Validity of Approval
 
170.01   PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide guidance and standards for
development within the City in order to guide development in a manner which is
conducive to protecting the health, safety, and general welfare of residents
and property owners within the City. All development and redevelopment of land
or property within the City shall minimize adverse effects upon adjacent
properties by maintaining or improving upon the aesthetic quality of a
surrounding area, and by providing adequate pedestrian and traffic safety,
emergency access, water supply, sewage disposal, management of stormwater, and
erosion and sediment control. Site plan review and approval by Council shall be
required for all principal structures other than individual single-family
detached, duplex, and parking lot as a primary use in any zoning district.
170.02   DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN STANDARDS.
   This section provides for the administration and enforcement of site plans,
establishes standards for site and building design, and shall be known,
referred to, and cited as the “Development and Design Standards” of the City.
170.03   JURISDICTION.
   No permit shall be issued for any lot or development requiring the approval
of a site plan after the effective date unless it is in compliance with the
provisions of the regulations of the Code. No development, except where
specified within the Code, may be created, substantially improved, converted,
enlarged, or otherwise altered without conforming to the provisions of this
section, all applicable provisions of the Code of Iowa, as amended, and all
applicable provisions of the City Code, as amended.
170.04   VALIDITY OF APPROVAL.
   A site plan shall become effective upon certification of approval by the
Council. The Council’s approval of any site plan required by this Code shall
remain valid for one year. A one-year extension may be granted with the
approval of the Council. If development has not been established or
construction commenced within one year, or two years in case of a received
extension, the site plan shall be deemed null and void. For the purpose of this
chapter, “actual construction” shall mean that the permanent placement of
construction materials and utility work has started and is proceeding without
undue delay with an approved Building Permit. Preparation of plans, securing
financial arrangements, issuance of Building Permits, letting of contracts,
grading of property, or stockpiling of materials on the site shall not
constitute actual construction. At the time of site plan approval, the Council
may grant an exemption on the time construction shall begin after their
approval is given for a utility service structure.
170.05   AMENDMENT.
Any site plan may be amended in accordance with the standards and procedures
established herein, including payment of fees, provided that the Administrative
Official may waive such procedures for those minor changes hereinafter listed.
Such minor changes shall not be made unless the prior written approval for such
changes is obtained from the Administrative Official. No fees shall be required
for such minor changes. Minor changes include, but are not limited to the
following:
   1.   Moving building walls within the confines of the smallest rectangle
that would have enclosed each original approved buildings.
   2.   Relocation of building entrances or exits.
   3.   Shortening of building canopies.
   4.   Changing to a more restrictive commercial or industrial use, provided
the number of off-street parking spaces meets the requirements of the Zoning
Code. This does not apply to residential uses.
   5.   The changing of the angle of parking or aisle provided there is no
reduction in the amount of off-street parking as originally approved.
   6.   Substituting plant species provided a landscape architect, engineer, or
architect certifies the substituted species is similar in nature and screening
effect.
170.06   SITE REVIEW.
The Administrative Official is responsible for the established site plan and
site review Process. The Administrative Official will serve as the
Administrator of this chapter and the liaison between the applicant and
reviewing bodies to ensure compliance with this chapter is met.
   1.   Notice and Hearings.
      A.   Public Hearing. Before submitting its recommendation on a site plan
to the Council, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold at least one
public hearing thereon, notice of which will be given to all property owners
within 200 feet, whenever possible. Notice shall be published of said hearing
in a newspaper of general circulation, as required by, and in conformance with,
State law. The notice shall state the place and time at which the proposed
amendment to the ordinance will be held as well as the legal description or
address of said property.
   2.   Submission Requirements. The applicant shall submit a Site Review
application and all associated fees with preliminary plans to the Planning
Department. The Planning and Zoning Commission is required to review site plans
and make a recommendation to the Council. Additionally, the applicant will
provide:
      A.   Full name, address, and contact information of the applicant in a
reproducible electronic format.
      B.   Full legal description of the property in a reproducible electronic
format.
      C.   Name and address of all property owners within 200 feet of the
proposed development in a reproducible electronic format.
   3.   Applicability. A site plan review shall be required for the following:
      A.   New construction;
      B.   Major reconstruction (more than 30 percent of the exterior structure
is affected);
      C.   Major renovation (more than 30 percent of the interior structure is
affected);
      D.   Changes to parking (more than 30 percent of the existing area);
      E.   Any development the Zoning Administrator deems is substantial enough
to require oversight by the Planning and Zoning Commission with site plan
review.
   4.   Pre-Application Meeting. The applicant is required to attend a
scheduled predevelopment meeting with City staff to review a conceptual site
plan prior to the submittal of a full site plan. Following the predevelopment
meeting, the applicant shall submit a complete site plan in accordance with the
requirements of the site plan and any other information determined to be
necessary for review at the Planning and Zoning Commission meeting.
   5.   Elevations. As part of the review process, an applicant shall provide
colored architectural elevation drawings for each elevation of the building or
buildings proposed for new construction, addition, alteration, or the like.
      A.   The elevation drawings should be provided in 11 inches by 17 inches
format unless otherwise approved by the Administrative Official.
      B.   Each elevation drawing should include massing dimensions and
callouts of the proposed materials indicated on the elevation.
      C.   In the event that accessory structures are proposed as a part of the
site plan review process, the Administrative Official shall have the ability to
request elevation drawings or colored details of said accessory structures to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
170.07   SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIREMENTS.
Site plans shall be submitted in electronic format with the ability to provide
physical copies sized 24 inches by 36 inches upon request by the Zoning
Administer. A site plan will not be submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for action until it is deemed complete. The Administrative Official
has the authority to deem the submittal complete. Review and comment by the
Fire Inspector, Public Works Engineer, and other administrative officials will
be obtained before Planning and Zoning Commission review. It is permissible and
encouraged to introduce large and potentially controversial projects to City
staff as far in advance as possible. The applicant shall provide City staff
with information determined to be applicable to the project by the
Administrative Official. The proposal shall then be brought before the Planning
and Zoning Commission in order to receive a recommendation before being
presented to the Council. Action of the Planning and Zoning Commission and
Council shall be approval, approval subject to conditions, denial, or table for
further review. A site plan may be presented for consideration by the Council
in the event of a recommendation of denial by the Planning and Zoning
Commission. In the event of denial of a site plan by the Council, the applicant
would be required to resubmit and begin the review process anew to have another
proposal considered by the Planning and Zoning Commission and Council.
Resubmittal will not be accepted until one year after a denial from the
Planning and Zoning Commission or Council. Resubmittal of a site plan shall be
subject to all applicable costs associated with a review of the documentation
unless an exception is made by City staff. Site plan review shall exist as a
measurement determined by the City to meet the objectives outlined by the
Comprehensive Plan. The following information shall be clearly provided on the
site plan:
   1.   Narrative information to be provided:
      A.   Name and address of property owner; including telephone and email.
      B.   Name and address of applicant; provide if different than the
property owner.
      C.   Name and address of plan preparer; including telephone and email.
      D.   Following Council or administrative approval, the certification of
the Architect and Civil Engineer licensed in the State. Include seal, date, and
signature on all applicable drawings prior to Council approval of the site
plan. Other certification may be requested, when appropriate, by the
Administrative Official.
      E.   Certification of a Registered Land Surveyor licensed in the State.
Include seal, date, and signature on applicable drawings prior to Council
Approval.
      F.   Current Zoning of Property. List the property’s existing zoning
consistent with the Official Zoning Map. Include any overlay districts the
property may be within, and the land use identified in the current
Comprehensive Plan where the property is located.
      G.   Legal Description of Site. Include the plat name and lot number for
all new site plans.
      H.   Total Area of Site. The total area of the site should be indicated
in acres and square feet.
      I.   Open Space.
         (1)   Indicate the total area of the proposed site in square feet, the
area of open space within the site, and its percentage of the total site. The
calculation should include all open space pervious areas and permitted
pedestrian plazas.
         (2)   The total area of the site reserved for parking facilities, the
open space within the defined parking area, and its percentages of the total
parking area should be calculated and indicated in square feet.
      J.   Pervious and Impervious Surface. Indicate the total area of the
proposed site in square feet, the area of pervious surface, and the area of
impervious surface including all structures.
      K.   Proposed Use of Site. Indicate all proposed uses for the site and
buildings as known at the time of application.
      L.   Parking Stalls. The total number of parking stalls required based on
the proposed building uses of the site should be indicated. If more than one
building use is proposed for the site, each individual parking stall
requirement should be indicated separately of the total.
      M.   Loading Areas. If applicable to the proposed building uses of the
site, the number of required and provided loading stalls should be indicated.
      N.   Setback Requirements. All setback requirements of the applicable
zoning district within which the proposed site is located should be provided.
      O.   Special Flood Hazard Area. The 100-year flood elevation should be
indicated based on the most recent FEMA FIRM Map.
   2.   Plan Information.
      A.   General and Survey Information.
         (1)   North Arrow. Include on site plan and all other applicable
sketches, drawings, and details.
         (2)   Scale of Drawing. A minimum scale of one-inch equals 30 feet
shall be required.
         (3)   Vicinity Sketch. A minimum scale of one-inch equals 800 feet
shall be used to indicate the properties within 300 feet of the proposed site
location. The boundary of the proposed site location should be clearly defined
in relation to other properties shown within the vicinity sketch.
         (4)   Site Boundary. All property lines shall be delineated with a
heavy line.
         (5)   Bearing and Distances or Curve Data Along Boundary. Information
shall be indicated as platted. Any measured information different than platted
should be identified.
         (6)   Name and Address of All Adjoining Property Owners. All property
lines adjacent to the proposed site, or across street right-of-way, shall be
indicated with the owner or subdivision names in addition to any adjoining lot
numbers, as appropriate.
         (7)   Existing Features. All existing physical features shall be
indicated on the site plan including, but not limited to, plant materials,
drainage ways, structures, fences, and any encroachments. Projects involving
numerous existing features may be requested to submit a demolition, removal, or
relocation plan as determined to be most beneficial.
         (8)   Soil Tests and Similar Information. Soil tests and similar
information may be required to determine the feasibility of the proposed
development in relation to the design standards set forth herein.
         (9)   Topography. The existing and proposed topography shall be
indicated with a maximum of two-foot intervals. Spot elevations may also be
required at the request of the Administrative Official.
         (10)   Limits of Phased Construction. If the site is to be developed
in more than one phase, the limits of each proposed construction or development
phase shall be indicated, including all facets of the phasing proposed.
         (11)   Additional Information. Drawings or other materials necessary
to describe a proposed project may be requested by the Planning and Zoning
Commission or Administrative Official. The applicant may include additional
information or materials such as sketches, videos, models, or photos if they
help explain the proposal.
      B.   Building Footprint.
         (1)   Footprint. An accurate representation of the proposed buildings
footprints, including exterior structures incorporated into the building mass,
and proposed internal demising walls known at the time of application.
         (2)   Size. Include the total square footage of each proposed floor,
the number of floors, and the amount of finished area on each floor including
any proposed basement area. For all multi-family and townhome proposals, the
total number of units proposed for each building footprint should be indicated.
         (3)   Entryways. The location of all proposed entries, service doors,
and overhead doors.
         (4)   Mechanical Units. Indicate the proposed location and type of all
proposed ground mechanical units, including air conditioning units, telephone
pedestals, transformers, coolers, or other similar units.
         (5)   Trash Enclosures. Indicate the proposed location of all trash
enclosures for the site and provide a detail of the structure for review.
      C.   Building Façade.
         (1)   Façade Material. Indicate the proposed materials on each
building.
         (2)   Façade Coverage. The percentage of the façade that each material
covers will be indicated on the site plan and conform to design standards
within the respective zoning district.
      D.   Pedestrian Circulation.
         (1)   Paths. All proposed sidewalks, trails, and pathways should be
indicated as appropriate on the site plan including the width, thickness, and
type of pavement. All sidewalks, trails, and pathways shall be constructed to
the City Standard Specifications as applicable to the project. Wherever
possible, bike racks should be provided.
         (2)   Connectivity. Pedestrian corridors should be indicated from any
public street to all proposed principal buildings.
         (3)   Stoops. All proposed emergency exits where a sidewalk is not
indicated shall provide a stoop of an approved dimension determined to be
adequate in providing a safe exit from the building.
      E.   Streets and Access.
         (1)   Access. All existing and proposed access drives to the site from
a public street shall be indicated on the site plan and shall include
appropriate spacing as determined by the City’s Engineer.
         (2)   Public Improvements. All public improvements required of the
developer shall be indicated on the site plan. The number of improvements
required shall be determined by the Comprehensive Plan, streetscape plan, a
traffic impact analysis, or any other approved documentation identifying the
amount and type of improvements necessary to accommodate increased activity to
the site or to facilitate future development as it relates to the development
of said site.
         (3)   Private Streets. The use of private streets may be allowed if
the proposed private streets meet the following criteria:
            a.   Proposed private streets are built to the City Standard
Specifications for public streets.
            b.   They are maintained by the property owners requiring the
private streets through a Homeowners Association or through an approved
development agreement between the developers and the City.
            c.   The width and thickness of the private streets are appropriate
as determined by the City Engineer or a traffic impact study in accordance with
the City specifications.
            d.   Sidewalks should be installed on both sides of the private
streets unless additional landscaping or open space is incorporated into the
site in an amount approved by the Council in relief of one sidewalk per street.
            e.   A public ingress or egress easement is provided over the
private street’s location.
         (4)   Shared Access.
            a.   Any project where the development of townhomes provides access
to garages from a public street shall provide a shared access drive between two
or more units in order to minimize the amount of obstruction to the flow of
traffic along said public street.
            b.   Any development of commercial property, where shared access is
anticipated, shall provide an easement and conceptual building footprints for
all proposed lots which are proposed to share the access drives.
      F.   Parking and Loading Areas.
         (1)   All proposed parking and loading areas incorporated in the site
plan shall meet the requirements in the Zoning Code and all other applicable
State and federal regulations.
         (2)   A complete traffic circulation and parking plan should indicate
the location and dimensions of all existing and proposed parking stalls,
loading areas, entrance and exit drives, sidewalks, dividers, planters, and
other similar permanent improvements in addition to traffic movements within
access drives in order to better identify any potential traffic impediments
based upon the proposed parking configuration and access drives.
         (3)   Individual parking stalls should be indicated as appropriate and
differentiated from parking aisles. Stalls intended to accommodate handicapped
accessibility should be indicated appropriately.
         (4)   Proposed loading areas and loading docks should indicate traffic
movements, where applicable, to determine maneuverability within the site.
      G.   Lighting.
         (1)   A lighting plan should be provided with all site plans
indicating the location, type, height, power rating, and any shielding methods
required of all existing or proposed lighting fixtures. The lighting shall
follow all applicable City ordinances including dark-sky standards. See Chapter
172.13.
         (2)   A manufacturer’s cut-sheet shall be provided for each type of
lighting fixture incorporated into the site layout including its materials and
color. Information required from the cut sheet shall include the description of
lamps, supports, reflectors, and any other components of a particular lighting
fixture. The site plan shall indicate all proposed lighting as depicted by the
manufacturer.
         (3)   A photometric plan shall also be required, identifying the
horizontal illumination of the site and the vertical light trespass along the
perimeter of the site. The photometric plan shall show a point-by-point foot-
candle reading for the entire site at a minimum spacing of 10 feet between each
point, including two feet past the property line. The vertical photometric plan
shall only be required along the property line with a maximum spacing of 10
feet.
      H.   Lighting Standards.
         (1)   Definitions. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the
words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following meaning:
            a.   Exterior Lighting. Temporary or permanent lighting that is
installed, located, or used in such a manner to cause light rays to shine
outdoors.
            b.   Exterior Lighting Fixture. The complete exterior lighting
unit, including the artificial source of light, the parts required to
distribute the light, elements for light output control such as the reflector
(mirror), or refractor (lens), the housing that protects and holds the light in
place, the connection to the power supply, and the component that anchors the
lighting unit to the ground or onto a structure.
            c.   Floodlight. A lamp that incorporates a reflector or a
refractor to concentrate the light output into a directed beam in a particular
direction.
            d.   Foot-candle. The illuminance measured one foot from a one
candle source.
            e.   Full Cut-Off. A shielded light fixture that emits no light
above a horizontal plane touching the lowest point of the fixture.
            f.   Glare. The light in a direction near one’s line of sight that
either causes discomfort to the eye or impairs visibility.
            g.   Horizontal and Vertical Foot-Candles. The illuminance,
measured by a light meter, striking a vertical or horizontal plane.
            h.   Illuminance. The intensity of light in a specified direction
measured at a specified point.
            i.   Light. A form of radiant energy acting on the retina of the
eye to make sight possible.
            j.   Light Trespass. Unwanted light falling on public or private
property from an external location.
            k.   Recreational Facility. Football fields, soccer fields,
baseball fields, tennis courts, swimming pools, or any other special event or
show area.
      I.   Lighting Design.
         (1)   Required Lamps. Generally, all lamps shall be halogen, metal
halide, LED, or others with similar qualities to reduce glare and provide for
improved color correct vision. Full cut-off high pressure sodium lamps, not
exceeding a maximum lumen rating of 16,000 lumens, may be used in outdoor
storage areas where the need for good color rendering capabilities for safety
and security is not necessary. Such areas shall not be accessible to the
general public or adjacent to R-1, R-2, and R-3 zoned property.
         (2)   Required Exterior Lighting Fixtures. All exterior lighting
fixtures shall be full cut-offs. No portion of the lamp, lens, or diffuser
shall be visible from the side or top of any shield or otherwise protrude from
the bottom of the shield. No exterior lighting fixture shall emit light at or
above a horizontal plane that runs through the lowest point of the shield.
         (3)   Commercial and Industrial Architectural and Decorative Lighting.
            a.   Limited building-mounted lighting may be used to highlight
specific architectural features or primary customer or building entrances.
Floodlights are only permitted provided all light emitted is contained by the
building or by an eave or protruding structure.
            b.   Lighting fixtures shall be located, aimed, and shielded to
minimize the glare that is emitted on objects other than a building’s façade or
landscape walls.
            c.   Building-mounted neon lighting may only be used when the
lighting is recessed or contained inside a cap or architectural reveal.
            d.   An exterior lighting fixture that emits less than 1800 lumens
shall not be required to be a full cut-off fixture, provided that the lamp
itself creates no glare or has an opaque covering.
         (4)   Site and Parking Lot Lighting.
            a.   The mounting height for lighting fixtures shall not exceed 25
feet from grade to the top of the lighting fixture.
            b.   The maximum average-maintained foot-candles for a parking lot
lighting fixture shall be three foot-candles. The maximum lighting level for a
parking lot lighting fixture shall be 10 foot-candles.
            c.   The maximum horizontal foot-candle measurement at any property
line shall be two foot-candles. The maximum maintained vertical foot-candle at
an adjoining property line shall be two foot-candles, as measured at five feet
above grade. If the adjacent property is the same owner, the light trespass
limits may be waived by the Council.
         (5)   Canopy Lighting. The maximum maintained foot-candles under a
canopy shall be 35 foot-candles. Areas outside the canopy shall be regulated by
the guidelines and standards outlined above. Permissible fixtures for canopy
lighting include:
            a.   Recessed fixtures that incorporate a lens cover that is either
recessed or flush with the bottom surface of the canopy.
            b.   Indirect lighting where light is emitted upward and then
reflected down from the underside of the canopy. Such fixtures shall be
shielded to ensure that no light is emitted at or above a horizontal plane that
runs through the lowest point of the canopy.
         (6)   Street Lighting. All private street light fixtures shall measure
no more than 30 feet from grade to the top of the lighting fixture and shall be
cobra-style unless the Commission and Council permit the installation of an
alternative fixture. The Commission and Council may approve an alternative
lighting fixture only after a determination has been made that the alternative
fixture has been designed to avoid glare and trespass. The use of lighting
fixtures that direct light upward into the air is strictly prohibited. Public
lighting along University Avenue shall conform to the specifications of
lighting already in place. All other lighting on public streets shall conform
to any adopted streetscape plans.
         (7)   Pedestrian Walkway Lighting. All pedestrian walkways shall be
lit by pedestrian-level, bollard-type lighting (four feet height max.), ground
mounted lighting, pole lighting (12 feet height max.), or other low, glare-
controlled fixtures that are mounted on building or landscape walls. University
Avenue lighting should be followed as above.
         (8)   Recreational Facilities. The lighting fixtures at all public or
private outdoor recreational facilities shall be designed to minimize the
amount of light that is directed upward into the air, glare, and light
trespass. The illumination of any public or private outdoor recreational
facility after 11:00 p.m. is prohibited, except in order to conclude a specific
activity, previously scheduled, which is in progress under such illumination
prior to 11:00 p.m.
         (9)   Exemptions. This chapter shall not apply to the following
exterior lighting sources:
            a.   Airport lighting required by law.
            b.   Temporary emergency lighting.
            c.   Temporary lighting, other than security lighting, at
construction projects.
            d.   Governmental facilities where a compelling need for safety and
security has been demonstrated.
            e.   Lighting for flag poles, church steeples, or other similar
non-commercial items provided they do not cause distraction within public
rights-of-way.
      J.   Signage.
         (1)   The location and type of all existing and proposed signage shall
be indicated on the site plan.
         (2)   All signage shall meet the requirements identified within the
Zoning Code.
      K.   Landscaping.
         (1)   Common and scientific names for all proposed plant material.
         (2)   Quantity, height or caliper or gallon size (as applicable) of
all proposed plant material.
         (3)   Location of all proposed plant materials.
         (4)   Number of ground cover plants per square foot to be planted, or
pounds of seed per 1,000 square feet, and species or characteristics of grass
in all areas to be seeded.
         (5)   Location, size, and species of all existing plant material to
remain. This includes a diagram or tree survey noting the location, size, and
species of existing trees and shrubs.
         (6)   Location of retaining walls, fences, utility easements, existing
and proposed structures, and parking areas.
         (7)   Plant installation details.
         (8)   Drainage areas.
         (9)   All proposed trees and plantings of any existing trees larger
than six inches in diameter to be removed.
         (10)   All landscaping necessary for the fulfillment of all City
ordinances shall be indicated on the site plan and will conform to
Chapter 173.
CHAPTER 171
ZONING CODE - TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES
 
171.01 Purpose                       171.06 General Regulations
171.02 Temporary Uses and Structures 171.07 Specific Requirements for Related
                                     Areas
171.03 Compliance with Chapter       171.08 Conditions of Approval
Provisions
171.04 Permit Required               171.09 Fees
171.05 Temporary Use Permit Approval 171.10 Violations and Penalties
 
171.01   PURPOSE.
   The Supplemental Use Regulations set forth additional standards for certain
uses located within the various zoning districts. These regulations recognize
that certain use types have characteristics that require additional controls in
order to protect public health, safety, and welfare. These regulations
complement the use regulations contained in
Chapter 168.
171.02   TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   These regulations are intended to prescribe the conditions under which
limited duration activities (e.g., Christmas tree sales, pumpkin sales,
landscape material sales, grand openings, special events, etc.) may be
conducted. The intent is to allow for the temporary storage, display, and
marketing of merchandise on a seasonal basis in an attractive manner to serve
the desires of the general public but prevent the creation of any nuisance or
annoyance to the occupants of adjacent buildings, premises, or property, and
the general public. It is also the intent to establish minimum standards for
the operation of temporary uses in a manner that will provide for the health,
safety, and welfare of the patrons, employees, the general public, etc. that
may utilize or be affected by the establishment of the temporary use.
   1.   Exemptions.
      A.   Garage Sales. The casual and occasional sales of used household
goods by the owner thereof to the public, on a non-receiving basis, if the
seller, at the time of the sale, is not engaged for profit in the business of
selling goods of that or a similar nature, so long as such sales are not
conducted in excess of three consecutive days and no more than two times
annually.
171.03   COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   No temporary use or structure permit shall be issued, except for when
hereinafter provided.
171.04   PERMIT REQUIRED.
The following uses are eligible for a temporary permit, provided they meet the
following criteria and obtain prior approval from the Zoning Administrator. No
temporary use shall occur, and no temporary structures shall be erected,
without first obtaining a permit from the Zoning Administrator. All permits are
subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator. Further, the Zoning
Administrator may impose certain reasonable requirements as may be required to
prevent any negative impact to surrounding properties. City sponsored events
are exempt from these requirements.
   1.   Construction Office. If a Building Permit has been issued for the
construction of a new building on the same property or if a contractor has
another non-building related construction project, the applicant may also apply
for a Temporary Use Permit for the purpose of installing any temporary
structures used as temporary office, shop, or storage on the property provided
they directly relate to the new construction activity and the temporary
structure is removed upon completion of the construction project. Specific uses
under this category may include the following:
      A.   Real estate offices and model homes;
      B.   Any structure used for construction offices, workshops, and storage;
   2.   Any other construction-related uses not specified in this section
which, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator, are similar to the uses
listed in this section.
      A.   Special Events. These uses are intended to serve special events such
as grand openings, parking lot sales, group assembly activities, etc. These
uses typically involve the use of a tent, outdoor shelter, or any other
enclosure and temporary structure. Garage sales are exempt from these
provisions, provided they do not occur any more frequently than one three-day
event per 180-day period. Garage sales occurring more frequently shall be
considered a commercial retail sales business in a residential zone, which is
prohibited. Specific uses under this category may include the following:
         (1)   Parking lot sales, sidewalk sales (private sidewalks only),
clearance sales, or other temporary uses which, in the opinion of the Zoning
Administrator, are similar to the uses listed in this section. For purposes of
this section, the term “sidewalks” does not apply to outside areas adjacent to
sidewalks that were specifically built for outside sales.
         (2)   Grand openings and special events, and grand openings which are
not sponsored by the City or Chamber.
         (3)   Group assembly activities not sponsored or endorsed by the City
(e.g. carnivals, fairs, rodeos, sports events, concerts, and shows).
      B.   Temporary food and beverage uses must meet the requirements of
Chapter 127.
      C.   Any other event related uses not specified in this section which, in
the opinion of the Zoning Administrator, are similar to the uses listed in this
section.
   3.   Seasonal Related. These uses typically involve the erection or setup of
a temporary structure in order to display seasonal goods and wares. This does
not include the sale of fireworks. These permitted uses and any related
structures expire upon the completion of the season or at another specified
date. Specific uses under this category may include the following:
      A.   Retail sales of Christmas trees and pumpkins.
      B.   Retail sale of agricultural products and landscape nursery material,
unless the establishment sells and is zoned for sales of similar materials.
      C.   Nurseries and greenhouses.
      D.   Any other seasonal related uses not specified in this section which,
in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator, are similar to the uses listed in
this section.
171.05   TEMPORARY USE PERMIT APPROVAL.
The Zoning Administrator shall only approve an application for a Temporary Use
Permit, if all of the following findings can be made:
   1.   The proposed temporary use will be compatible with adjacent uses and
will not adversely affect the surrounding neighborhood by means of odor, noise,
dust, or other nuisance.
   2.   The additional parking required by the temporary use will be provided
on-site, if applicable, or adequate street parking is available in the
immediate area.
   3.   Increased traffic caused by the temporary use will not adversely affect
the surrounding neighborhood or City at large.
   4.   The proposed temporary use is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan,
this Code, and all City and State regulations.
171.06   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
Each temporary use shall be described in a permit issued by the Zoning
Administrator prior to commencement of the use. This permit shall be in
addition to all other licenses, permits, or approvals otherwise required by any
governmental entity. Each temporary use shall adhere to the following
regulations.
   1.   Length. The temporary use shall be defined as either short-term or
long-term.
      A.   “Temporary use (short-term)” means a short-term use is a use with a
maximum duration of four consecutive days or less.
      B.   “Temporary use (long-term)” means a long-term use in duration of
more than four consecutive days, but less than six months.
   2.   Parking Spaces.
      A.   The number of additional parking spaces required, if any, and the
location of such additional parking space for the temporary activity shall be
determined by the Zoning Administrator. The number of permanent parking spaces
allowed to be used under the short-term Temporary Use Permit shall be reviewed
and determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      B.   The maximum number of permanent parking spaces allowed to be used
for the operation of a long-term temporary use shall not exceed 20 percent of
the parking on a site plan that was approved by the City to be counted toward
the allowable size of the long-term temporary use or 20 percent of the site
area, whichever is more restrictive.
   3.   Signs.
      A.   Non-Illuminated Detached Signs.
         (1)   Amount.
         (2)   A maximum of two detached signs.
      B.   Size.
         (1)   The total size area much be below 60 square feet.
         (2)   Each sign may have a maximum size area of 30 square feet.
   4.   Cleanliness.
      A.   All sites shall be completely cleaned of debris and temporary
structures including, but not limited to, trash receptacles, signs, stands,
poles, electric wiring, or any other fixtures and appurtenances or equipment
connected therewith, within five days after the termination of the sale or
special event.
      B.   A bond or cash deposit in the amount of $500.00 shall be deposited
with the City to assure adequate cleanup of activities that occur on vacant or
undeveloped lots or involving the construction or placement of temporary
structures. The bond for long-term temporary food and beverage uses shall be in
the amount of $750.00. Activities located in fully developed shopping centers
will be exempt from bonding, with the exception of uses that involve the
construction or placement of a temporary structure, and any long-term temporary
food and beverage facilities shall be required to post a bond or cash deposit.
The Zoning Administrator may waive this requirement for normal and customary
uses incidental complementary to the principal use.
   5.   Sanitary Facilities.
      A.   Sanitary facilities, either portable or permanent, shall be made
available to all employees, attendants, and participants of the activity during
its operational hours, as approved by the Zoning Administrator in concurrence
with the City Engineer and County Health Department, unless stipulated
otherwise in this chapter. If the restroom facilities are located within an
adjacent building, the written authorization of the owner of the adjacent
building shall be required specifically stating that the restroom facilities
will be made available to the employees, attendants, and participants at all
times during the hours of operation of the temporary use activity.
   6.   General Regulations.
      A.   No area of public right-of-way may be used without obtaining
approval from the Zoning Administrator, who will confer with the Police Chief,
Fire Chief, Public Works Director, and the City Administrator.
      B.   Proof of ownership or a signed letter, either from the property
owner or an authorized representative for the property on which the activity is
to take place, shall be presented at the time the temporary permit is
requested.
      C.   All temporary structures including, but not limited to, greenhouses,
trailers, mobile homes, signs, etc., shall conform to the zoning setback
requirements unless stated otherwise in this chapter. Temporary structures are
also subject to permit requirements as set forth in Chapter 152.
   7.   Application Requirements. Applications for the temporary use shall be
accompanied by the prescribed number of copies of a project plan and such other
detailed elevations, plans, and other information as may be required to
adequately evaluate the proposed use. A plan of the layout of the proposed use
shall be submitted to the City with the application on a base plan prepared in
accordance with the site plan requirements of the City. The proposed layout of
the garden center area may be drawn onto a copy of a previously approved site
plan for the Temporary Use Permit submittal. The layout plan shall identify the
following:
      A.   Area. The area on the site proposed to be utilized as part of the
temporary use and associated sales areas.
         (1)   Delineate how different areas will be used.
      B.   Traffic.
         (1)   Proposed modifications to the traffic patterns and methods
proposed to notify patrons and identify the temporary traffic pattern changes,
i.e., signage, traffic cones, fencing, and barriers, etc.
         (2)   Proposed vehicle loading zone.
         (3)   Proposed temporary barriers or corrals with an architectural
elevation, photo, or sketch of the barriers’ proposed construction.
      C.   Location of Facilities.
         (1)   Electrical Connection.
            a.   Overhead power connection with a minimum clearance above a
grade of 14 feet;
            b.   Installation of an underground conduit; or
            c.   Other method acceptable to the City. The use of an overhead
connection shall only be allowed in those areas where overhead electrical
service currently exists in the area. Use of extension cords, cables, or wires,
whether lying on the ground or otherwise connected to a power source, is
expressly prohibited for long-term garden center uses. An electrical permit
shall be obtained prior to any electrical installation or connection.
         (2)   Water connection.
         (3)   The applicant shall provide, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator, adequate facilities for the disposal of trash, waste, pallets,
and display racks.
         (4)   Restroom facilities shall be provided at all times during the
temporary use activity.
      D.   Indemnification and Proof of Insurance.
         (1)   The owner or operator of any long-term temporary use shall
provide evidence of comprehensive general liability coverage and contractual
liability insurance by an insurance company licensed to do business in the
State in the limits of at least $1,000,000.00 for each personal injury accident
or death; $1,000,000.00 for each aggregate personal injury or death; and
$1,000,000.00 for each property damage accident. The evidence shall name the
City as a coinsured and shall state that it cannot be canceled or materially
altered without giving the City at least 30 days’ written notice by registered
mail, return receipt requested. The owner or operator of a temporary garden
center or the property owner shall execute an agreement, acceptable to the
City, which indemnifies and holds harmless the City from any and all liability,
damages, claims, costs, expenses, interest, and reasonable attorney fees
relating to the temporary use and associated facilities on the property.
      E.   Removal. At the expiration of the Temporary Use Permit, any
structures, barricades, shelving, pallets, leftover merchandise, or other
facilities associated with the temporary use shall be removed from the site.
      F.   Safety Standards. In order to promote the safety of the patrons of
these facilities, the following shall be required:
         (1)   Bulk material shall be neatly and safely stacked.
         (2)   All sales areas shall be separated from vehicular uses by the
placement of a fence or barrier acceptable to the Zoning Administrator to
prevent pedestrian and vehicular conflicts. If a barrier is of an open nature
where patrons can reach through and obtain access to the merchandise, a four-
foot walkway shall be located adjacent to the barrier to prevent patrons from
standing outside the barrier in traffic ways to shop.
         (3)   The door openings for any greenhouses, shade structures, or
similar enclosures shall have a minimum 10-foot setback from drive aisles where
an opening in the barrier is provided aligned with the door of the structure.
   8.   Where openings in the barriers occur for pedestrian access, sight
visibility shall be maintained so that vehicles can clearly see pedestrians
approaching the opening from a distance of no less than 50 feet.
   9.   Temporary drive aisles shall be maintained at a minimum 24-foot width
for two-way traffic and shall be delineated by the placement of traffic
barriers, fencing, or some other physical marker that clearly informs drivers
of the end of the parking area and the start of the drive aisle. A clear line
of sight shall be maintained at the entrance and exit of the temporary drive
aisles.
   10.   Vehicle loading areas shall be located in an area that minimizes
pedestrian and vehicle conflict and provides for the safe loading of
merchandise and vehicle access to and from the traffic lanes to the loading
area, preferably without backing movements.
171.07   SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS FOR RELATED AREAS.
   1.   Construction Office.
      A.   Construction Offices and Related Structures.
         (1)   Zoning.
            a.   The use and structure are allowed in any zoning district. All
requirements such as, but not limited to, setbacks, landscaping, parking, etc.
are required to be complied with.
         (2)   Maximum Duration.
            a.   Twenty-four months.
         (3)   Amount.
            a.   Limited to one per property and located entirely within the
property boundaries.
   2.   Special Event.
      A.   Zoning.
         (1)   The use is allowed in any zoning district.
         (2)   Events occurring in an R-1, R-2, or R-3 District shall occur
between 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. except with the approval of the Police Chief;
all other zones as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      B.   Maximum Duration.
         (1)   Four consecutive days, not to exceed four events in a 12-month
period.
   3.   Seasonal Related.
      A.   Retail Sales of Christmas Trees and Pumpkins.
         (1)   Zoning.
            a.   The use is allowed in any zoning district.
         (2)   Maximum Duration.
            a.   Forty calendar days prior to December 25 for Christmas tree
sales; October 1 through November 1 for pumpkin sales.
      B.   Agricultural Produce Stands.
         (1)   Zoning.
            a.   The use is allowed in any zoning district.
         (2)   Termination.
            a.   Stands and displays shall be removed when not used for a
period of 30 consecutive days.
      C.   Retail Sales of Landscape Nursery Materials.
         (1)   Zoning.
            a.   The use is allowed in the CC, UC, and LI Zoning Districts.
         (2)   Termination.
            a.   Stands and displays shall be removed when not used for a
period of 30 consecutive days.
   4.   Other structures or uses determined to be consistent with the intent of
this subsection, with the approval of the Zoning Administrator.
171.08   CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   The Zoning Administrator may impose such conditions on a Temporary Use
Permit as is necessary to meet the purposes of this section and protect the
public health, safety, and welfare and adjacent uses.
171.09   FEES.
   The application fee for a Temporary Use Permit shall be in the amount as
established, from time to time, by resolution of the Council, payable each year
of operation.
171.10   VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   The operation of a temporary use is a privilege allowed by this section.
Failure to maintain a temporary use in compliance with the conditions of
approval and the regulations of this section shall constitute a nuisance and
may be punished as set forth in Chapter 50. A written notice of a violation of
the Temporary Use Permit shall be sent to the operator of the temporary use and
the property owner, if different than the operator, and the operator shall have
a maximum of five days, as determined by the Zoning Administrator, to bring the
site into compliance. If the operator fails to correct the violation in the
prescribed time, the City may revoke the Temporary Use Permit and issue a
cease-and-desist order for the temporary use. There shall also be a one-year
moratorium from that date on the issuance of any other Temporary Use Permits on
the property and a one-year probationary period for the second year following
the violation. During the probationary period, if the operator of a temporary
use fails to maintain the premises and the use in conformance with the
conditions of approval and this Code, after the notification procedures noted
above, the City may revoke the Temporary Use Permit and no other Temporary Use
Permits shall be issued on the property for a period of two years.
CHAPTER 172
ZONING CODE - SUPPLEMENTAL SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
172.01 Purpose                           172.08 Outdoor Storage
172.02 Mobile Home Parks                 172.09 Setback Adjustments
172.03 Commercial Uses                   172.10 Height Exceptions
172.04 Performance Standards for         172.11 Small Wind Innovation Zone
Industrial Uses                          Ordinance
172.05 Maximum Permitted Sound Levels    172.12 Fence Regulations
Adjacent to Residential Zoning Districts
172.06 Accessory Uses                    172.13 Outdoor Lighting
172.07 Accessory Structures              172.14 Building Façade
                                         172.15 Parkland Dedication
 
172.01   PURPOSE.
   The Supplemental Site Development Regulations recognize the existence of
special conditions that cannot comply literally with the site development
regulations set out for each zoning district. Therefore, these regulations
qualify or modify the district regulations of this Zoning Code and provide for
specific areas of exception.
172.02   MOBILE HOME PARKS.
Mobile Home Parks in the MH District. Mobile home parks are permitted in the MH
District as conditional uses, subject to approval by the Board of Adjustment.
Following the effective date of this Zoning Code, no mobile home shall be
located outside of a mobile home park. A mobile home park is subject to the
approval of a Special Use Permit and compliance with the following regulations:
   1.   Certification. A certification of compliance with all ordinances and
regulations regarding mobile home licensing, zoning, health, plumbing,
electrical, building, fire protection, and any other applicable requirements
shall be required of all mobile home parks.
   2.   Minimum and Maximum Area. A mobile home park shall be considered to be
one zoned lot. The minimum contiguous area of a mobile home park shall be
100,000 square feet.
   3.   Density Requirements.
      A.   The maximum gross density of a mobile home park shall be 10 units
per acre.
      B.   The minimum size of an individual mobile home space shall be 3,500
square feet for single-wide mobile home units and 5,000 square feet for double-
wide mobile home units.
      C.   Each mobile home space shall have a width of at least 40 feet wide
and a length of at least 75 feet.
   4.   Site Development Standards.
      A.   Setbacks. Each mobile home park shall have a minimum perimeter
setback of 35 feet from adjacent nonresidential uses and 50 feet from adjacent
residential uses. No space for a dwelling unit or any other structure shall be
permitted in the required setback.
      B.   Setback Landscaping. All area contained within the required
setbacks, except sidewalks and private drives, shall be landscaped and screened
in conformance with Chapter 173. Screening shall be provided in conformance
with
Chapter 173 for any common property line with another non-residential use.
      C.   Impervious Coverage. Impervious coverage for a mobile home park
shall not exceed 50 percent of the total site area.
      D.   Open Space. Each mobile home park shall provide a minimum of 400
square feet of open recreational space per unit. Such space shall be provided
at a central location accessible from all parts of the park by pedestrians.
Required perimeter setbacks or buffers shall not be credited toward the
fulfillment of this requirement.
      E.   Separation Between Mobile Home Units. The minimum separation between
a mobile home unit and attached accessory structure and any other mobile home
units or accessory structure shall be 20 feet.
      F.   Separation and Setbacks for Accessory Buildings. An accessory
building on a mobile home space shall maintain a minimum rear and side yard
setback of five feet. A minimum distance of 10 feet shall be provided between
any mobile home and an unattached accessory building.
   5.   Street Access and Circulation Requirements.
      A.   Access to Public Street. Each mobile home park must abut and have
access to a dedicated public street with a right-of-way of at least 60 feet.
Direct access to a mobile home space from a public street is prohibited.
      B.   Vehicular Circulation. The mobile home park must provide interior
vehicular circulation on a private internal street system. The minimum interior
street width shall be 27 feet. The street system shall be continuous and
connected with other internal and public streets or shall have a cul-de-sac
with a minimum diameter of 90 feet. No such cul-de-sacs may exceed 300 feet in
length.
      C.   Separation between Units and Circulation Areas. The minimum distance
between a mobile home unit and any attached accessory structure and the
pavement of an internal street or parking area shall be 10 feet.
      D.   Sidewalks. Each mobile home park shall provide a sidewalk system to
connect each mobile home space to common buildings or community facilities
constructed for the use of its residents; and to the fronting public right-of-
way. Sidewalk width shall be at least five feet.
      E.   Street and Sidewalk Standards. All internal streets and sidewalks
shall be hard-surfaced. Electric street lighting is required along all internal
streets.
      F.   Parking Requirements. Each mobile home park must provide at least
one off-street parking stall for each mobile home space.
   6.   Tornado Shelters. Underground or other approved tornado shelters shall
be provided in the mobile home park. Such shelter or shelters shall be built
according to the recommendations of the Civil Defense Authority and be large
enough to meet the specific needs of the park and its residents.
   7.   Utilities.
      A.   All mobile home parks shall provide individual units and common
facilities with an adequate, piped supply of hot and cold water for both
drinking and domestic purposes; and standard electrical service, providing at
least one 120-volt and one 240-volt electrical service outlet to each mobile
home space.
      B.   Complete sanitary and sewer service shall be provided within each
mobile home park in accordance with this Code.
      C.   Properly spaced and operating fire hydrants shall be provided for
proper fire protection within each mobile home park in accordance with this
Code.
      D.   All electric, telephone, gas, and other utility lines shall be
installed underground.
   8.   Financial Responsibility. Each application for a mobile home park shall
include a demonstration by the developer of financial capability to complete
the project, and a construction schedule.
      A.   Completion Schedule. Construction must begin on any approved mobile
home park within one year of the date of approval by the Planning and Zoning
Commission. Such construction shall be completed within two years of approval
unless otherwise extended by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
172.03   COMMERCIAL USES.
   1.   Auto Service, Repair, Equipment Repair, Body Repair, Convenience
Stores, and Gas Stations.
      A.   Where permitted in commercial districts, all repair activities,
including oil drainage, lifts, and other equipment, must take place within a
completely enclosed building. Outdoor storage is permitted only where
incidental to auto repair and body repair, provided that such storage is
completely screened so as not to be visible from residential areas or public
rights-of-way. Screening is subject to provisions of
Chapter 173.
      B.   Any spray painting must take place within structures designed for
that purpose and approved by the Building Official.
      C.   All gasoline pumps shall be set back at least 15 feet from any
right-of-way line.
   2.   Automobile and Equipment Rental and Sales.
      A.   All outdoor display areas for rental and sales facilities shall be
hard-surfaced.
      B.   Body repair services are permitted as an accessory use to automobile
rental and sales facilities, provided that such repair services shall not
exceed 25 percent of the gross floor area of the building.
   3.   Convenience Storage. When permitted in the CC and LI Districts,
convenience storage facilities shall be subject to the following additional
requirements:
      A.   The minimum size of a convenience storage facility shall be two
acres.
      B.   Activities within the facility shall be limited to the rental of
storage cubicles and the administration and maintenance of the facility.
      C.   All driveways within the facility shall provide a paved surface with
a minimum width of 25 feet.
      D.   All storage must be within enclosed buildings and shall not include
the storage of hazardous materials.
      E.   No storage buildings may open into required front yards.
      F.   Facilities must maintain landscaped buffer yards of 35 feet adjacent
to any public right-of-way and 20 feet adjacent to other property lines, unless
greater setbacks are required by
Chapter 173.
172.04   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR INDUSTRIAL USES.
The following performance standards apply to all industrial uses permitted
within an LI Limited Industrial Zoning District:
   1.   Physical Appearance. All operations shall be carried on within an
enclosed building, except that new materials or equipment in operable condition
may be stored outside. Normal daily inorganic wastes may be stored outside in
containers, provided that such containers are not visible from the street.
   2.   Fire Hazard. No operation shall involve the use of highly flammable
gases, acids, liquids, or other inherent fire hazards. This prohibition shall
not apply to the normal use of heating or motor fuels and welding gases when
handled in accordance with the regulations of the County and the City.
   3.   Maximum Permitted Sound Levels Adjacent to Residential Zoning
Districts. No operation in the LI District shall generate sound levels in
excess of those specified in Table 172.06-1 at the boundary of a residential
district. All noises shall be muffled so as not to be objectionable because of
intermittence, beat frequency, or shrillness.
   4.   Sewage and Wastes. No operation shall discharge into a sewer, drainage
way, or the ground any material which is radioactive, poisonous, detrimental to
normal sewer plant operation, or corrosive to sewer pipes and installations.
   5.   Air Contaminants. No material may be discharged into the air from any
source in such quantity as to cause injury, detriment, nuisance, or annoyance
to any considerable number of people or to the public in general; or to
endanger the health, comfort, or safety of any considerable number of people or
to the public in general; or to damage other businesses, vegetation, or
property.
   6.   Odor. The emission of odors determined by the Planning and Zoning
Commission to be obnoxious to most people shall be prohibited. Such odors shall
be measured at the property line of the operation.
   7.   Gases. No release of noxious or poisonous gases shall be permitted,
except as provided in this section. Measurements of sulfur dioxide, hydrogen
sulfide, or carbon monoxide shall not exceed five parts per million taken at
the property line of the operation.
   8.   Vibration. All machines shall be mounted to minimize vibration. No
measurable vibration shall occur at the property line of the operation which
exceeds a displacement of 0.003 inch.
   9.   Glare and Heat. All glare generated by a use shall be shielded or
directed so as not to be visible at the property line of the operation. No heat
may be generated from an operation that raises the air temperature at the
property line of the operation by more than five degrees Fahrenheit above the
ambient air temperature.
   10.   Storage of Chemical Products. If allowed by Special Use Permit, any
above or below ground storage of liquid petroleum products or chemicals of a
flammable or noxious nature shall not exceed 150,000 gallons when stored on one
lot less than one acre. Such storage shall not exceed 25,000 gallons in any one
tank. Storage of liquid petroleum products or chemicals of a flammable or
noxious nature in excess of 25,000 gallons shall be located at least 50 feet
from any structure intended for human habitation and at least 200 feet from any
Residential, Office, or Commercial Zoning District.
172.05   MAXIMUM PERMITTED SOUND LEVELS ADJACENT TO RESIDENTIAL ZONING
DISTRICTS.
Table 172.05-01 displays the maximum permitted sound levels that may be
generated by uses in the CC, UC, or LI Zoning Districts where adjacent to
residential zoning districts. All measurements shall be taken at or within the
boundary between the originating district and the adjacent residential zoning
district with a sound level meter meeting American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) specifications for a Type II or better general purpose sound level
meter. The A-weighted response shall be used.
 
Table 172.05-01 Maximum Permitted Sound Levels at Residential Boundaries
Originating Zoning District Time                   Maximum One Hour LEQ* (dBa)
CC, UC                      7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. 60
10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.      50
LI                          7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. 65
10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.      50
*LEQ (or equivalent continuous sound level) is the constant sound level that,
in a given situation and time period, conveys the same sound energy as the
actual time-varying A-weighted sound. It is the average sound level and
accuracy portrays the sound the human ear actually hears.
 
172.06   ACCESSORY USES.
   1.   Home-Based Businesses; Home Occupations. Each home-based business shall
register with the City, on a form established by the Zoning Administrator.
Home-based businesses and home occupations are permitted as an accessory use in
residential units subject to the following conditions:
      A.   External Effects.
         (1)   There shall be no change in the exterior appearance of the
building or premises housing the home occupation other than signage permitted
within this section.
         (2)   No noise, odors, bright lights, electronic interference,
storage, or other external effects attributable to the home occupation shall be
noticeable from any adjacent property or public right-of-way.
         (3)   A home occupation that is run within a detached accessory
building shall be approved by the Board of Adjustment in accordance with these
zoning regulations. All “external effects” criteria in Subparagraphs (1), (2),
(4), (5), and (6) of this Paragraph A are applicable for the detached accessory
building. Signage is not allowed upon the detached accessory building.
         (4)   Mechanical or electrical equipment supporting the home
occupation shall be limited to that which is self-contained within the
structure and normally used for office, domestic, or household purposes.
         (5)   No outdoor storage of materials or equipment used in the home
occupation shall be permitted, other than motor vehicles used by the owner to
conduct the occupation. Parking or storage of heavy commercial vehicles to
conduct the home occupation is prohibited.
         (6)   No home occupation shall discharge into any sewer, drainage way,
or the ground any material which is radioactive, poisonous, detrimental to
normal sewer plant operation, or corrosive to sewer pipes and installations.
      B.   Employees. The home occupation shall employ no more than one full-
time or part-time employee on-site other than the residents of the dwelling
unit.
      C.   Extent of Use. For all residential zoning districts, a maximum of 30
percent of the floor area of the dwelling may be devoted or used for a home-
based business or home occupation, inclusive of any attached garage or detached
accessory buildings used for the home occupation.
      D.   Signage. Signage designating the home occupation shall be consistent
with regulations for zoning districts set forth in Chapter 175.
      E.   Traffic Generation.
         (1)   Delivery or service by commercial vehicles or trucks over 10
tons gross empty weight is prohibited for any home-based business located on a
local street.
      F.   Nuisance. No home occupation shall be noxious, offensive, or
hazardous due to vehicular traffic generation or emission of noise, vibration,
smoke, dust, or other particulate matter, odorous matter, heat, humidity,
glare, refuse, radiation, or other objectionable emissions that would cause an
adverse impact on the neighborhood, as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   2.   Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU). Each ADU shall go through the site plan
review process to confirm conformity with the Zoning Code. ADUs are a permitted
accessory use on all single-family residential lots. The following standards
are applied to the ADUs:
      A.   An ADU shall not exceed 1,000 square feet or 50 percent of the
square footage of the single-family residence on the property, whichever is
larger.
      B.   Any manufactured home that is being utilized on a property must meet
all standards of the Zoning Code pertaining to ADUs, converted to real
property, by being placed on a permanent foundation.
      C.   If the ADU is intended to be a rental property, it must be
registered as a rental property with the City and go through the appropriate
inspections as per the Rental Property City Code.
      D.   If utilities to the ADU can’t be provided in their entirety from the
existing utilities on the lot with the single-family residence, then a new set
of utility connections is required for the ADU.
      E.   If the ADU is attached or connected to the principal structure or
single-family residential dwelling unit on the property, then it is required to
have a connecting doorway between the ADU and principal structure that does not
go outside either structure.
      F.   The maximum number of ADUs permitted on any lot is one.
172.07   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   1.   Accessory structures are enclosed, covered, or walled structures that
are customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or structure.
The accessory buildings and structures include free standing garages, trash
enclosures, sheds, play structures, underground shelters, accessory dwelling
units (detached), and above-ground and in-ground pools and hot tubs.
   2.   Standards.
      A.   Construction. No accessory structure shall be constructed upon a lot
until the construction of the principal building has been commenced, and no
accessory structure shall be used if the principal building has not completed
construction within a two-year period.
      B.   Setback. Structures shall maintain a minimum distance of five feet
from any lot lines, alley lines, and adjoining lots.
         (1)   Must have a greater front yard setback than the primary
structure.
         (2)   Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) structures will conform to the
setbacks of the single-family residential dwelling units within their
respective zoning district instead of the accessory structure setbacks
established in 172.07(2)(b).
      C.   Height. All structures shall have a maximum height of 25 feet.
      D.   Zoning. Must comply with all underlying standards set forth in
Chapter 168.
      E.   Exempt Structures.
         (1)   Unwalled structures under 120 square feet in size and under 15
feet in height.
            a.   This does not include carports or concrete slabs.
         (2)   Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) structures are exempt from the
height maximum of accessory structures and will conform to the height maximum
provided for single-family residential dwelling units within their respective
zoning district.
172.08   OUTDOOR STORAGE.
Outdoor storage is prohibited in all zoning districts, except the LI Limited
Industrial zoning district, except as provided in this section.
   1.   Outdoor storage is permitted where incidental to auto services,
equipment repair, and body repair, provided that such storage is completely
screened at property lines by an opaque barrier, as set forth in
Chapter 173. This provision shall apply to any auto services, equipment repair,
or body repair use established after the effective date of this Zoning Code.
172.09   SETBACK ADJUSTMENTS.
   1.   Allowable Encroachments Into Setback.
      A.   Architectural projections, including roofs which cover porches,
enclosed porches, windowsills, belt courses, cornices, eaves, flues, and
chimneys, and ornamental features may project three feet into a required yard.
      B.   Terraces, patios, and attached features must be set back at least
five feet from an adjacent side lot line, 10 feet from the rear lot line, or 20
feet from any street property.
      C.   Fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways, and balconies opening to
fire towers may project a maximum of four and one-half feet into a required
rear or interior side yard, provided that they do not obstruct the light and
ventilation of adjacent buildings.
      D.   In commercial districts, a canopy may extend into a required front
yard, provided that the canopy is set back at least five feet from the front
property line, covers less than 15 percent of the area of the required front
yard, and has a vertical clearance of at least eight feet, six inches.
   2.   Setback Adjustments.
      A.   Setbacks on Built-Up Blockfaces. These provisions apply if 40
percent or more of the buildings on that blockface have front yard setbacks
different from those required for the specific district.
         (1)   If a building is to be built on a parcel of land within 100 feet
of existing buildings on both sides, the minimum front yard shall be the mean
setbacks of the adjacent buildings.
         (2)   If a building is to be built on a parcel of land within 100 feet
of an existing building on one side only, the minimum front yard shall be the
setback of the adjacent building.
         (3)   If a building is to be built on a parcel of land not within 100
feet of an existing building on either side, then the minimum front yard shall
be the mean setback of all existing buildings on the blockface.
         (4)   No setback adjustment pursuant to this section shall create a
required front yard setback more than five feet greater than that otherwise
required by the applicable zoning district.
      B.   Corner Lots. Required setbacks shall not reduce the buildable width
of any corner lot to less than 24 feet. Appropriate setback adjustments shall
be allowed to maintain this minimum width.
   3.   Rear Yard Exceptions – Residential Uses. When an irregular lot is used
for residential purposes, the rear yard may be measured as the average
horizontal distance between the building and rear lot line, provided that the
minimum setback shall not be less than 60 percent of the rear yard required by
the zoning district.
   4.   Double Frontage Lots. Residentially zoned double frontage lots on a
major street, and with no access to that street, may have a 25-foot minimum
front yard setback along said street. All other double frontage lots must
provide full front yard setbacks from each adjacent street.
   5.   Satellite Antennas.
      A.   Antennas with a surface area over six point three square feet which
are accessory to a primary use and are designed to receive and transmit
electromagnetic signals, or to receive signals from satellites, shall not be
located within any front yard of the primary use.
      B.   Such antennas shall be located no less than 15 feet from the
property line of an adjacent property within a residential zoning district.
   6.   Vision Clearance Triangle. No structure, including a fence, shall be
built to a height of more than three feet above the established curb grade on
the part of the lot bounded by the street lines of the streets which intersect
and a line connecting a point on each of such lines 30 feet from their point of
intersection. No landscaping shall be planted in such area which will
materially obstruct the view of drivers approaching the street intersection.
However, in no case shall there be any interference with the required sight
distance as determined by the Department of Engineering.
172.10   HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
These provisions allow exceptions to the height limit of any zoning district in
certain situations.
   1.   Vertical Projections. Chimneys, cooling towers, building mechanical
equipment, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, grain elevators, non-parabolic
receiving antennas, tanks, solariums, steeples, penthouses not exceeding 25
percent of total roof area, flag poles, stage towers or scenery lofts, and
water towers may be built to any height in accordance with existing and future
ordinances. Such structures shall not extend into the approach zones, clear
zones, or other restricted air space required for the protection of any public
airport.
   2.   Amateur Radio Towers and FCC Pronouncements.
      A.   Radio towers, antennas, and other appurtenances operated by licensed
amateur radio operators, where and when permitted, may not exceed 75 feet in
height. This height has been determined by the City to reasonably accommodate
amateur service communications and further represents the minimum practicable
regulation to accomplish legitimate municipal land use regulation purpose, as
recognized under published guidelines of the Federal Communications Commission.
      B.   Special instances may require that amateur radio tower heights
exceed 75 feet to achieve effective and reliable communications. In such cases,
the Council may grant a Special Use Permit to a licensed amateur radio operator
for a specific tower height that exceeds 75 feet. In determining whether to
grant such permission, the Council shall consider the federal guidelines
contained in PRB-1 (Amateur Radio Preemption, 101 FCC 2d (1985), codified at
C.F.R. Section 97.15(e).
      C.   Such radio towers shall not be located within any front yard of the
primary use.
   3.   Broadcast Towers. Broadcast towers, when operated by a federally
licensed commercial or nonprofit organization, may be built to any height in
accordance with existing and future ordinances, subject to the approval of a
Conditional Use Permit. This exception does not apply to radio towers,
antennas, and other appurtenances operated by licensed amateur radio operators.
   4.   Small Wind Energy Systems. Small wind energy systems as outlined in
Section
172.11.
172.11   SMALL WIND INNOVATION ZONE ORDINANCE.
The purpose of this regulation is to promote the safe, effective, and efficient
use of small wind energy systems installed to reduce the on-site consumption of
utility-supplied electricity.
   1.   Findings. The City finds that wind energy is an abundant, renewable,
and nonpolluting energy resource and that its conversion to electricity will
reduce our dependence on nonrenewable energy resources and decrease the air and
water pollution that results from the use of nonrenewable energy sources.
Distributed small wind energy systems will help diversify the State’s energy
portfolio. Small wind energy systems also make the electricity supply market
more competitive by promoting customer choice. The State has enacted a number
of laws and programs to encourage the use of small-scale renewable energy
systems, including net metering, sales tax exemptions, property tax exemptions,
production tax credits, and the Small Wind Innovation Zone Program.
   2.   Permitted Use. Small wind energy systems shall be a permitted use in
all zoning classifications where structures of any sort are allowed, subject to
certain requirements as set forth below. The City may require the installer of
the small wind energy system, or the owner of the property upon which the
system will be installed, to obtain a Building Permit for the system, if
required by City Code.
      A.   Tower Height and Setback. The base of the small wind energy system
tower shall be set back from all property lines, public rights-of-way, and
above-ground public utility lines at a distance no less than 115 percent of the
total extended height of the tower. Towers shall be allowed closer to a
property line than its total extended height if the abutting property owners
grants written permission, provided that the tower installation complies with
the other applicable setbacks herein provided. As long as the total extended
height meets the setback requirements in this section, there shall be no
specific height limitation, except as imposed by Federal Aviation
Administration regulations as stated in Section 4.3.
      B.   Requirement for Engineered Drawings or Approval and Soil Studies. A
small wind energy system of greater than 20 kW, or a small wind energy system
mounted on a structure other than a freestanding tower, shall not be erected in
the City unless the plans and specifications for the system have received the
stamped approval of a State registered engineer. In lieu of obtaining the
stamped approval of a State registered engineer for each small wind energy
system of 20 kW or less mounted on a freestanding tower, a manufacturer may
submit its standard plans and specifications for a 20 kW system on a
freestanding tower, including its soils study and foundation plans for such
system, for a one-time review and stamped approval by a State registered
engineer as suitable for construction in any soil condition that exists in the
State. If such one-time stamped approval is obtained, that manufacturer may
thereafter construct such small wind energy systems of 20 kW or less in the
City, utilizing the approved soils study and foundation plans for the 20 kW
small wind energy system, without obtaining and presenting the stamped approval
of a State registered engineer for each such installation.
      C.   Compliance with Federal Aviation Administration Regulations (FAA).
No small wind energy system shall be constructed, altered, or maintained so as
to project above any of the imaginary airspace surfaces described in FAR Part
77 of the FAA guidance on airspace protection.
      D.   Safety. Any climbing foot pegs or rungs below 12 feet of a
freestanding tower shall be removed to prevent unauthorized climbing. For
lattice or guyed towers, sheets of metal or wood may be fastened to the bottom
tower section such that it cannot readily be climbed.
      E.   Sound. Sound produced by the small wind energy system under normal
operating conditions, as measured at the property line, shall:
         (1)   Not produce sound at a level that would constitute a nuisance;
and
         (2)   Comply with any local ordinance regulating the volume of sound
as a nuisance, if applicable.
Sound levels, however, may be exceeded during short-term events out of anyone’s
control, such as utility outages or severe windstorms.
      F.   Compliance with National Electric Code. Building Permit applications
for small wind energy systems shall be accompanied by a line drawing of the
electrical components, as supplied by the manufacturer, in sufficient detail to
allow for a determination that the design and manner of installation conforms
to the State National Electric Code.
      G.   Utility Notification. No small wind energy system shall be installed
until evidence has been given that the utility company has authorized
interconnection of the small wind energy system to its electric distribution or
transmission, under an agreement approved by and subject to regulation adopted
by the Iowa Utilities Board. Properties not connected to the public utility
system shall be exempt from this requirement.
      H.   Insurance. A person seeking a Building Permit to erect a small wind
energy system shall provide evidence, in the form of a Certificate of Insurance
satisfactory to the City showing general liability insurance coverage for the
installation and operation of the system under a standard homeowner’s or
standard business owner’s insurance policy, separate and distinct from any
insurance requirements of a public utility.
      I.   Abandonment. If a wind turbine is inoperable for six consecutive
months, the owner shall be notified that they must, within six months of
receiving the notice, restore the small wind energy system to operating
condition. If the owner fails to restore the system to operating condition
within the six-month time frame, it shall be considered abandoned and the owner
shall be required, at the owner’s expense, to remove the small wind energy
system. A small wind energy system that has been abandoned may be abated as a
public nuisance.
      J.   Signage. No signs, other than appropriate warning signs or standard
manufacturers or installer’s identification signage, shall be displayed on a
wind generator, tower, building, or other structure associated with a small
wind energy system, subject to local sign regulation, if any.
      K.   Lighting. No illumination of the turbine or tower shall be allowed
unless required by the FAA or unless allowed by applicable City ordinance.
172.12   FENCE REGULATIONS.
   1.   General Requirements
      A.   Location Restriction. No fence shall be built on any lot or tract
outside of the property owner’s surveyed lot lines. If a fence is erected along
the property lines, the owner installing the fence must ensure there is a
permanent means for maintaining both sides of the fence subject to State and
local ordinances.
         (1)   No landscape retaining wall shall be installed within two feet
of the lot line of another property that is in excess of 24 inches without
first conducting a consultation meeting with the City’s stormwater coordinator
and the adjoining property owner.
      B.   Vision Clearance Triangle. No fence permitted or required by this
Zoning Code, or other sections of this Code, shall be built within the vision
clearance triangle, formed by the adjacent curb lines of two intersecting
streets and a line connecting points 30 feet on each leg from their point of
intersection; or otherwise in any manner create a traffic hazard or obstruction
to visibility.
      C.   Facing. The finished surfaces or decorative side of any fence shall
face toward adjacent properties and street frontage. If no finished side can be
determined, the support side shall face the interior.
      D.   Prohibited Materials. A fence or wall may not be designed to cause
pain or injury to humans or animals. Therefore, the use of spikes, broken
glass, barbed wire, electric, razor wire, nails, electrical charge, or other
similar materials shall be prohibited.
      E.   Sidewalk. Fences may not be constructed within two feet of a public
sidewalk.
      F.   Easements. No fence may be allowed to be constructed, built, or
located over a public easement, unless otherwise noted in this section or
approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      G.   Overland Flowage Easements.
         (1)   Fences may encroach into an overland flowage easement providing
measures are taken to make certain that the fence does not restrict the water
flow, cause siltation buildup, etc.
         (2)   Permitted fence material includes chain link, wrought iron
fencing, picket style fencing that is at least 30 percent open, or other
fencing styles that are at least 30 percent open.
         (3)   Solid fencing shall be elevated a minimum of six inches through
the swale part of the easement to allow water flowage.
      H.   Miscellaneous. Fences which enclose public or institutional parks,
playgrounds, or schoolyards in residential areas shall be of open type not
exceeding six feet in height except as required for recreational purposes such
as baseball backstop when a limited sections of open fence up to 10 feet in
height is allowed, where necessary to provide for such backstop or similar
purposes.
   2.   Temporary Construction and Maintenance Fences. Unless otherwise
approved by the City or Zoning Administrator, any temporary fences shall be
removed if construction ceases for a period of six months or upon the issuance
of an Occupancy Permit, including temporary occupancy.
      A.   Height. The maximum height of a fence for any construction shall be
eight feet.
   3.   Residential Fences. Fences constructed within residential districts or
on land used for residential purposes are subject to the following provisions:
      A.   Height. The maximum height of a fence within a front yard or street
side yard setback shall be four feet. The maximum height for any fence outside
of a required front yard shall be six feet and is measured from the property
grade.
         (1)   Exception for Street Side Yards. On corner lots, a fence built
parallel to the street side yard line, but in complete conformance with all
other regulations of this Code based upon sight clearance and set back from the
sidewalk for ADA compliance, may have a maximum height of six feet.
      B.   Materials. Fences shall be constructed of wood, PVC or resin, stone,
wrought iron, masonry, or chain link materials only. Wood fences shall utilize
standard building lumber only.
      C.   Location Restrictions. Fences may not be constructed on lots unless
a primary building is in place.
   4.   Nonresidential Fences.
      A.   Height. The maximum height of a fence for any permitted use in a
non-residential district shall be eight feet.
172.13   OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   1.   General Requirements
      A.   Location Restriction.
   2.   Applicability. Except as described below, all outdoor lighting
installed after the date of effect of this chapter shall comply with these
requirements. This includes, but is not limited to, new lighting, replacement
lighting, or any other lighting whether attached to structures, poles, the
earth, or any other location, including lighting installed by any third party.
      A.   Exceptions.
         (1)   Lighting within public right-of-way or easement for the
principal purpose of illuminating streets or roads. No exemption shall apply to
any lighting within the public right-of-way or easement when the purpose of the
luminaire is to illuminate areas outside the public right-of-way or easement.
         (2)   Lighting for public monuments and statues.
         (3)   Underwater lighting for pools or water features.
         (4)   Low voltage landscape lighting controlled by an automatic device
that is set to turn the lights off at one hour after the site is closed to the
public or at a time established by the Zoning Administrator.
         (5)   Lighting solely for signs. See
Chapter 175.
         (6)   Repairs to existing luminaires not exceeding 50 percent of total
installed luminaires.
         (7)   Temporary lighting.
         (8)   Lighting for emergency conditions.
         (9)   Lighting specified or identified in a Conditional Use Permit.
         (10)   Lighting required by federal or State law.
   3.   Lighting Control Requirement.
      A.   Automatic Switching Requirements.
         (1)   Controls shall be provided that automatically extinguish all
outdoor lighting when sufficient daylight is available using a control device
or system such as a photoelectric switch, astronomic time switch, or equivalent
functions from a programmable lighting controller, building automation system,
or lighting energy management system, all with battery or similar backup power
or device.
      B.   Automatic Lighting Reduction Requirements.
         (1)   Outdoor lights shall be set to be reduced by at least 30 percent
or extinguished by 12:00 a.m.
            a.   Exceptions. Lighting reductions are not required for any of
the following:
               i.   With the exception of landscape lighting, lighting for
residential properties, including multiple residential properties not having
common areas.
               ii.   When the outdoor lighting consists of one luminaire.
               iii.   Code required lighting for steps, stairs, walkways, and
building entrances.
               iv.   When, in the opinion of the authority, lighting levels
must be maintained.
               v.   Motion activated lighting.
               vi.   Lighting governed by Special Use Permit in which times of
operation are specifically identified.
               vii.   Businesses that operate on a 24-hour basis.
   4.   Residential Properties.
      A.   For residential properties including multiple residential properties
not having common areas, all outdoor luminaires shall be fully shielded and
shall not exceed the allowed lumen output in
Table 172.13-03.
      B.   Low voltage landscaping lighting shall be aimed away from adjacent
properties.
      C.   Shielding directional flood lighting aimed so that direct glare is
not visible from adjacent properties.
      D.   Exceptions.
         (1)   Lighting installed with a vacancy sensor, where the sensor
extinguishes the lights no more than 15 minutes after the area is vacated.
         (2)   Open-flame gas lamps.
 
Table 172.13-01 Purposes of Lighting Zones
Zone                                   Overview
                                       Areas where lighting might adversely
                                       affect flora and fauna or disturb the
LZ-0: Limited lighting                 character of the area. Lighting may be
                                       used for safety and convenience, but it
                                       is not necessarily uniform or
                                       continuous.
                                       Areas of human activity where the vision
                                       of human residents and users is adapted
LZ-1: Low ambient lighting             to low light levels. Lighting may be
                                       used for safety and convenience, but it
                                       is not necessarily uniform or
                                       continuous.
                                       Areas of human activity where the vision
                                       of human residents and users is adapted
LZ-2: Moderate ambient lighting        to moderate light levels. Lighting may
                                       typically be used for safety and
                                       convenience, but it is not necessarily
                                       uniform or continuous.
                                       Areas of human activity where the vision
                                       of human residents and users is adapted
LZ-3: Moderately high ambient lighting to moderately high light levels.
                                       Lighting is generally desired for
                                       safety, security, or convenience and it
                                       is often uniform or continuous.
                                       Areas of human activity where the vision
                                       of human residents and users is adapted
LZ-4: High ambient lighting            to high light levels. Lighting is
                                       generally considered necessary for
                                       safety, security, or convenience and it
                                       is mostly uniform or continuous.
 
 
Table 172.13-02 Lighting Zones for Districts
Zoning District Lighting Zone
R-1, R-2        LZ-1
R-3, MH, LI     LZ-2
CC, UC          LZ-3
 
Table 172.13-03 Maximum Allowed Luminaire Lumens
Table 172.13-03 Maximum Allowed Luminaire Lumens
Lighting Application by
Maximum Allowed          LZ-0 LZ-1       LZ-2         LZ-3         LZ-4
Luminaire Lumens
Unshielded luminaires at N/A  420 lumens 630 lumens   630 lumens   630 lumens
one entry
Fully shielded luminaire N/A  630 lumens 1,260 lumens 1,260 lumens 1,260 lumens
lumens
Unshielded luminaire     N/A  315 lumens 315 lumens   315 lumens   315 lumens
excluding main entry
Landscape lighting       N/A  630 lumens 1,050 lumens 2,100 lumens 2,100 lumens
Shielded directional     N/A  630 lumens 1,260 lumens 2,100 lumens 2,100 lumens
flood lighting
Low voltage landscape    N/A  N/A        525 lumens   525 lumens   525 lumens
lighting
 
   5.   Non-Residential Properties. Non-residential may follow either the
Prescriptive Method or the Performance Method listed below.
      A.   Prescriptive Method.
         (1)   Total Site Lumen Limit.
            a.   The total installed initial luminaire lumens of all outdoor
lighting shall not exceed the total site lumen limit. The total site lumen
limit shall be determined using either the Parking Space Method 172.13-04 or
the Hardscape Area Method 172.13-05. Only one method shall be used per permit
application, and for sites with existing lighting, existing lighting shall be
included in the calculation of total installed lumens. The total installed
initial luminaire lumens is calculated as the sum of the initial luminaire
lumens for all luminaires.
      B.   Limits to Off-Site Impacts.
         (1)   All luminaires shall be rated and installed according to Table
172.13-06.
            a.   Less than two mounting heights shall be mounted with the
backlight portion of the light output oriented perpendicular and towards the
property line of concern.
      C.   Light Shielding for Parking Lot Illumination.
         (1)   All parking lot lighting shall have no light emitted above 90
degrees.
 
Table 172.13-04 Allowed Total Initial Luminaire Lumens Per Site for Non-
Residential Outdoor Lighting Per Parking Space Method
LZ-0          LZ-1          LZ-2          LZ-3          LZ-4
350 lms/space 490 lms/space 630 lms/space 840 lms/space 1,050 lms/space
 
 
Table 172.13-05 Allowed Total Initial Luminaire Lumens Per Site for Non-
Residential Outdoor Lighting Hardscape Area Method
LZ-0            LZ-1            LZ-2            LZ-3            LZ-4
0.5 lumens per  1.25 lumens per 2.5 lumens per  5.0 lumens per  7.5 lumens per
SF of Hardscape SF of Hardscape SF of Hardscape SF of Hardscape SF of Hardscape
 
Table 172.13-06 Maximum Allowable Backlight, Uplight, and Glare (B.U.G.)
Rating
 LZ-0 LZ-1 LZ-2 LZ-3 LZ-4
Table 172.13-06 Maximum Allowable Backlight, Uplight, and Glare (B.U.G.) Rating
                                                             LZ- LZ- LZ- LZ- LZ-
                                                             0   1   2   3   4
Allowable Backlight Rating
Greater than two mounting heights from property line         B1  B3  B4  B5  B5
One to less than two mounting heights from property line     B1  B2  B3  B4  B4
Zero-point five to one mounting heights from property line   B0  B1  B2  B3  B3
Less than zero-point five mounting height to property line   B0  B0  B0  B1  B2
Allowable Uplight Rating                                     U0  U1  U2  U3  U4
Allowed percent light emission above 90º for street or area 0%  0%  0%  0%  0%
lighting
Allowable Glare Rating                                       G0  G1  G2  G3  G4
Any luminaire not properly oriented with one to less than    G0  G0  G1  G1  G2
two mounting heights to any property line of concern
Any luminaire not properly oriented with zero-point five to
less than one mounting height to any property line of        G0  G0  G0  G1  G1
concern
Any luminaire not properly oriented with less than zero-     G0  G0  G0  G0  G1
point five mounting heights to any property line of concern
 
   6.   Performance Method.
      A.   Total Site Lumen Limit.
         (1)   The total installed initial luminaire lumens of all lighting
systems on the site shall not exceed the allowed total initial site lumens. The
allowed total initial site lumens shall be determined using Table 172.13-07.
For sites with existing lighting, existing lighting shall be included in the
calculation of total installed lumens. The total installed initial luminaire
lumens of all is calculated as the sum of the initial luminaire lumens for all
luminaires.
      B.   Limits to Off Site Impacts.
         (1)   All luminaries shall be rated and installed according to
172.13-06 or
         (2)   The entire outdoor lighting design shall be analyzed using
industry standard lighting software including inter-reflections in the
following manner:
            a.   Input data shall describe the lighting system including
luminaire locations, mounting heights, aiming directions, and employing
photometric data tested in accordance with IES guidelines. Buildings or other
physical objects on the site within three object heights of the property line
must be included in the calculations.
            b.   Analysis shall utilize an enclosure comprised of calculation
planes with zero reflectance values around the perimeter of the site. The top
of the enclosure shall be no less than 33 feet (10 meters) above the tallest
luminaire. Calculations shall include total lumens upon the inside surfaces of
the box top and vertical sides and maximum vertical illuminance (footcandles or
lux) on the sides of the enclosure.
            c.   The design complies if:
i.   The total lumens on the inside surfaces of the virtual enclosure are less
than 15 percent of the total site lumen limit; and
ii.   The maximum vertical illuminance on any vertical surface is less than the
allowed maximum illuminance per
Table 172.13-08.
 
Table 172.13-07 Allowed Total Initial Site Lumens
Lighting Zone                LZ-0 LZ-1  LZ-2  LZ-3   LZ-4
Allowed Lumens Per SF        0.5  1.25  2.5   5.0    7.5
Allowed Base Lumens Per Site 0    3,500 7,000 14,000 21,000
 
 
Table 172.13-08 Allowed Total Initial Site Lumens
LZ-0           LZ-1          LZ-2              LZ-3              LZ-4
0.05 FC or 0.5 0.1 FC or 1.0 0.3 FC or 3.0 LUX 0.8 FC or 8.0 LUX 1.5 FC or 15.0
LUX            LUX                                               LUX
 
172.14   BUILDING FAÇADE.
   1.   Applicability. Except as described below, all façade requirements and
materials are to be subject to their respective zoning requirements as listed
by the zoning district design regulations.
   2.   Façade Material. All building façade materials that face the primary
street will need to be included within the defined groups of façade materials
allowed to be used within each zoning district. The façade material groups are
the following within this definitive list:
      A.   Grade A Materials.
         (1)   Brick.
         (2)   Natural stone.
         (3)   Glass.
         (4)   Stucco.
         (5)   Architectural grade precast panels.
      B.   Grade B Materials.
         (1)   Wood.
         (2)   Metal wall panel systems.
         (3)   Textured concrete panels.
         (4)   Fiber cement panels and lap siding.
      C.   Grade C Materials.
         (1)   Vinyl siding.
         (2)   Corrugated metal wall panels.
         (3)   Concrete block.
         (4)   Smooth tip-up panels.
      D.   Not Listed Here.
         (1)   Any material that is being proposed to be used as a material for
a proposed development must supply the City with descriptive information on the
material, including, but not limited to:
            a.   The name of the material.
            b.   Provider of the material.
            c.   Longevity of material as it will be used.
            d.   Description of look, color, and accent to the building.
            e.   Any other information requested by City staff, Planning and
Zoning Commission, or Council.
   3.   Façade Coverage. The percentage of the façade that each material covers
will conform to design standards within the respective zoning district and any
additional condition listed further within this section.
      A.   In the UC - Urban Center District.
         (1)   The primary street facing façade on the first floor of any
structure on University Avenue, excluding windows or doorways on that façade,
will require a minimum of 75 percent of the material used on that façade must
be brick.
            a.   For corner lots on University Avenue, both the street facing
façade on University Avenue and the street facing façade on the connecting
street to University Avenue must meet the UC - Urban Center District primary
street facing façade material requirements.
         (2)   Façades facing the primary street that are not on the first
floor of the structure may use Grade A or Grade B materials.
         (3)   Façades not street facing may use Grade A or Grade B materials
for those façades.
      B.   In the CC - Community Commercial District:
         (1)   The primary street facing façade will require a minimum of 50
percent of Grade A Materials.
            a.   For corner lots that exist within the CC - Community
Commercial District, both street facing façades must meet the primary street
facing façade material minimum requirement.
         (2)   The remainder of the building on all sides can utilize Grade B
and Grade C materials with a maximum of 10 percent of the total of each façade
being Grade C materials.
   4.   The Zoning Administrator will be responsible for the initial
determination of the general compliance with these criteria for a proposed
development. Through the site plan review process, the Planning and Zoning
Commission, and Council will make the final determination on the materials
requested and their compliance with this Code section.
172.15   PARKLAND DEDICATION.
   1.   Applicability. Any developer who seeks to develop or redevelop land for
residential purposes within the City shall be required to dedicate public
parkland. No new plats or site plans for residential development shall be
approved unless and until the provisions of this chapter are complied with. For
the purposes of this section, residential development is defined as the
combination or redevelopment of existing lots, new multi-family developments,
and new mixed-use development.
      A.   The dedicated public parkland may include waterways and ponds,
provided the area of such waterways and ponds is not used to satisfy the amount
of public parkland required in Section
172.15(3).
      B.   Where proposed subdivisions abut undeveloped lands, the dedicated
public parkland shall be located adjacent to the subdivision boundaries with
the undeveloped land, at the discretion of the Council, to allow the public
parkland to be increased in size when the adjacent property develops.
      C.   The development of private recreational amenity space shall not be
used to satisfy parkland dedication requirements.
      D.   The City reserves the right to not accept land that, in its
discretion, is not useable or consistent with City plans or policies.
      E.   Alternative to Development of Public Parkland. If a developer does
not desire to dedicate public parkland required in Section
172.15(3), the developer may make a request to the Council that the developer
be allowed to meet the requirements of such section through other arrangements
agreeable to the Council and the developer as long as such agreement provides
equal value to the City. Such arrangements shall be made between the Council
and the developer in the form of a Development Agreement. The determination of
equal value shall be based on the most recent City appraisal study or County.
   2.   Exceptions. The following shall be exempted from the requirements of
this chapter:
      A.   Alterations or expansion of an existing building where no additional
residential units are created and where the use is not changed.
      B.   The construction of accessory buildings or structures.
      C.   The replacement of a destroyed or partially destroyed building or
structure with a new building or structure of the same use and the same number
of units.
      D.   Construction of a new single-family home, structure, or building on
an existing, platted lot.
      E.   The installation of a replacement manufactured or mobile home.
      F.   The construction of any nonresidential building or structure or the
installation of a nonresidential manufactured or mobile home.
      G.   The construction of a residential care facility, assisted living
facility, nursing facility, or continuing care facility.
      H.   Any claim of exemption shall be made no later than the time of
application for a preliminary plat approval or a Building Permit, whichever
occurs first. Any claim not so made shall be deemed waived.
   3.   This section shall prescribe the minimum amount of space to be provided
in a proposed development for use as a public park. Such space shall be
required to be provided for by a developer who seeks to develop land within the
City by submitting a plat or site plan for approval.
      A.   The amount of public parkland required in a proposed development
shall be computed as follows:
         (1)   Residential Occupancy per Living Unit. In determining the
anticipated occupancy for the proposed development, it shall be assumed that
the following dwellings will accommodate the following number of individuals:
 
Table 172.15-01 Average Individuals Estimated Per Land Use Unit Type
Land Use Type (Unit)                  Individuals Per Residential Living Unit
Dwelling, Single-Unit                 2.5 Individuals
Dwelling; Two, Three, or Four Unit;   2.0 Individuals
Townhouse,
Dwelling; Apartment or Live-Work Unit 1.5 Individuals
Manufactured or Mobile Home           1.5 Individuals
 
      B.   Public Parkland Per Individual. In determining the space required
for public parkland in a proposed development, it shall be required that five
acres of recreational space be provided for every 1,000 individuals. Since some
developments will not house 1,000 individuals, the space requirement is to be
applied on a per-individual basis. Therefore, .005 acres of public parkland
shall be provided for each individual proposed to be housed in the new
development based on the assumptions contained above.
      C.   The following is an example of a calculation using the previous
sections above for illustration purposes only:
         (1)   For a multi-family development intended for rental ownership,
the following formula would be utilized:
            a.   If the development would have 125 units, then the calculation
based on the information above would be as follows:
               i.   (number of units) x (1.5 individuals/unit) x (.005 acres/
individual)
               ii.   In this example, the developer would be required to
dedicate at least 0.9375 acres of public parkland within the proposed
development. 125 Units x 1.5 x .005 = 0.9375 acres.
CHAPTER 173
ZONING CODE - LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING STANDARDS
 
173.01 Purpose                  173.05 Buffer Yard Provisions
173.02 Applicability            173.06 Screening Standards
173.03 Landscaping Requirements 173.07 Screening Standards of Dumpsters and
                                Recycling Areas
173.04 Planting Requirements    173.08 Landscaping Materials and Installation
                                Standards
 
173.01   PURPOSE.
   The Landscaping and Screening Regulations provide guidance on the
development of sites within the City by addressing landscaping and screening
requirements. They are designed to improve the appearance of the community,
buffer potentially incompatible land uses from one another, and conserve the
value of properties within the City.
173.02   APPLICABILITY.
The provisions of this chapter apply to all new development or redevelopment of
land on each lot or site upon application for a Building Permit, except for the
following:
   1.   Reconstruction or replacement of a lawfully existing use or structure
following a casualty loss of less than 50 percent of the total value.
   2.   Remodeling, rehabilitation, or improvements to existing uses or
structures which do not substantially change the location of structures,
parking, or other site improvements.
   3.   Additions or enlargements of existing uses or structures which increase
floor area or impervious coverage area by less than 20 percent. Where such
additions or enlargements are 20 percent or greater, these provisions apply
only to that portion where the new development occurs.
173.03   LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Landscaping shall be required adjacent to each street property line and
within street yards as set forth in Table 173.05-03 Screened Buffer Yard
Requirements.
   2.   Ground Cover. All areas without buildings, paving, or hard surfaces
shall be landscaped with grass or continuous plant beds containing shrubs and
flowering perennials.
      A.   No mow and low maintenance yards may be utilized in all areas except
within parking lots, and street rights-of-way.
         (1)   No mow and low maintenance yards shall:
            a.   Not contain any noxious weeds outlined in Chapter 317 of the
Code of Iowa.
            b.   Have a five-foot buffer of maintained grass with a maintained
edge along all property lines and sidewalks.
   3.   Obstruction of View. Landscaping or screening installed in any
landscaped area shall not obstruct the view from or to any driveway approach,
street, alley, or sidewalk, and must maintain the vision clearance triangle.
   4.   Earth Berm Locations. All earth berm locations shall be reviewed by the
Public Works Director to determine how the berms shall relate to drainage and
public utilities.
   5.   Exceptions. A development may continue to comply with the buffer yard
and screening requirements in effect at the time of issuance of its original
permit, regardless of whether an adjacent lot or site is subsequently rezoned
to a less intensive district which would otherwise require compliance with
buffer yard or screening provisions.
   6.   Supplements to the Official List of Plant Materials. The list of
Official List of Plant Materials has been compiled using the latest research
data available. Plants other than those listed may be used to fulfill minimum
landscaping requirements as approved by the Zoning Administrator. To be
considered for approval, a proposed plant material must be submitted for review
with the following information or additional information as requested:
      A.   Common name and scientific name of plant material;
      B.   Habitat, geographic climate range, and original native region;
      C.   Growing characteristics, including evergreen or deciduous, height
and spread at maturity;
      D.   Suitability for different landscape uses and applications;
      E.   Susceptibility to disease and tolerance of environment: heat,
drought, pollution stress; and
      F.   Fruit bearing characteristics which may be hazardous in pedestrian
and parking areas.
   7.   Encouragement of Native Landscaping Materials. The use of suitable
native plant materials is encouraged to fulfill landscaping requirements.
Native plants, or those plants which occur naturally in this region, have shown
greater adaptability to the seasonal and periodic climate changes which occur
in this region.
   8.   Standards for Required Landscaping.
      A.   Plants shall be from the approved plant lists in Section
173.08. Substitutions will be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator on a case-
by-case basis.
      B.   Plants shall not be from the “Windsor Heights Restricted Tree or
Plant List” as defined in said table.
      C.   All other specifications shall conform with the latest version of
the American Standards for Nursery Stock, published by the American Association
of Nurserymen for that type of tree or shrub at the time of installation.
      D.   All plant materials shall be installed free of disease and in a
manner that ensures the availability of sufficient soil and water to sustain
healthy growth.
   9.   Minimum Spacing of Plant Materials.
      A.   Spacing of Trees. Spacing consistent with generally accepted species
spread dimension at maturity defined by American Standards for Nursery Stock,
or a minimum of one tree for every 30 feet, whichever is less.
      B.   Groundcover Turf. Immediate and complete coverage of an area within
the season.
      C.   Groundcover, Creeping. Spacing adequate to provide complete coverage
in three years.
      D.   Groundcover. Maximum spacing upon installation of 18 inches on
center, should have immediate and complete coverage of area within the season,
and with spacing adequate to provide complete coverage in three years.
   10.   Supplemental Installation Requirements for Shrubs.
      A.   Shrubs shall be installed in a manner that promotes ease of
maintenance and quality appearance.
      B.   All shrubs shall be installed in continuous beds or naturalized
settings containing a minimum of three inches of organic mulch contained by a
properly maintained spade edge or other manufactured edging material as
approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      C.   Shrub installations shall contain groundcovers, native perennials,
or seasonal annuals. Other shrub installations without these features will need
approval of the Zoning Administrator, upon demonstration of quality design and
a maintenance contract or commitment.
   11.   Use of Inorganic Landscaping Materials.
      A.   No artificial trees, shrubs, plants, or turf shall be used to
fulfill the minimum requirements for landscaping.
      B.   Inorganic materials, such as stone or decorative pavers, may be used
provided that such material does not comprise more than 35 percent of the
minimum required landscaped area.
      C.   Concrete or asphalt pavement surfaces may not be used within the
minimum required landscaped area, except for walkways less than five feet in
width.
      D.   Buffer yards may not include any paving, regardless of use.
173.04   PLANTING REQUIREMENTS.
 
Table 173.04-01 Minimum Amount Plantings Required
Planting requirements R-1, R-2            R-3, CC, UC, LI
Trees                 1 per dwelling unit 1 per 2,000 sq.ft. of pervious area
Shrubs                N/A                 5 per 2,000 sq.ft. of pervious area
 
Table 173.04-02 Minimum Size at Time of Planting
Plant Type Trunk Minimum Height Minimum Other Requirements
Table 173.04-02 Minimum Size at Time of Planting
Plant Type             Trunk Minimum          Height Minimum Other Requirements
Deciduous Overstory    2 inches (Measured 6
Tree                   inches above root      3.5 feet       N/A
                       collar)
Deciduous Understory   1.5 inches (Measured 6
Trees                  inches above root      3.5 feet       N/A
                       collar)
Deciduous Scrubs 5
Feet or Greater Mature N/A                    3 feet         N/A
Height
Deciduous Scrubs 3
Feet to 5 Feet Mature  N/A                    2 feet         N/A
Height
Deciduous Scrubs 3
Feet or Shorter Mature N/A                    15 inches      N/A
Height
Evergreen Trees        N/A                    6 feet         N/A
Evergreen Shrubs       N/A                    2 feet         N/A
Ground Covers or       N/A                    N/A            Minimum of a 4”
Perennials                                                   container
 
173.05   BUFFER YARD PROVISIONS.
These provisions apply when use is established in a more intensive zoning
district (District A) which is adjacent to a less intensive zoning district
(District B). The owner, developer, or operator of the use within District A
shall install and maintain a screened buffer yard on their lot or site, as set
forth in this section. Buffer yard requirements apply only to those districts
indicated in
Table 173.05-03. Buffer yards are not required for single-family, two-family,
or townhouse use types in the more intensive zoning district.
   1.   The buffer yard dimensions set forth in
Table 173.05-03 apply to zoning districts which share a common lot line or are
adjacent but separated by an intervening alley.
   2.   When a street separates adjacent zoning districts requiring a buffer
yard, the size of the buffer yard shall be one-half the required buffer yard
set forth in
Table 173.05-03.
   3.   Each required buffer yard must be entirely landscaped and free of paved
areas, accessways, storage, or other disturbances.
      A.   Buffer areas shall follow Section
173.06 Screening Standards.
 
Table 173.05-03 – Screened Buffer Yard Requirements
                        Less Intensive Adjacent District
R-1*, R-2*, and R-3
More Intensive District UC, CC 10 Feet
LI                      20 Feet
*Applies to residential uses only.
 
173.06   SCREENING STANDARDS.
   1.   Application. Screening is required between adjacent zoning districts
indicated in
Table 173.05-03 when one or more of the following conditions in the more
intensive zoning district is directly visible from and faces toward the
boundary of the less intensive zoning district.
      A.   The rear elevation of buildings.
      B.   Outdoor storage areas or storage tanks, unless otherwise screened.
      C.   Loading docks, refuse collection points, and other service areas.
      D.   Machinery or areas housing a manufacturing process.
      E.   Major on-site traffic circulation areas or truck or trailer parking.
      F.   Sources of glare, noise, or other environmental effects.
      G.   Mechanical equipment and utility appurtenances.
   2.   Opaque Barrier. An opaque barrier shall be provided which visually
screens the conditions listed in Subsection 1 from less intensive uses by
employing one or more of the following, in any combination, to obtain a solid
barrier of at least six feet in height:
      A.   A solid wood or masonry fence or wall at least six feet in height.
      B.   A landscaped screen, using a minimum of 50 percent evergreen plant
material, capable of providing a substantially opaque, hedge-like barrier and
attaining a minimum height of six feet within three years of planting. (Note:
All planting materials shall confirm to the minimum caliper/size requirements
set in
Table 173.04-02.)
      C.   A landscaped earth berm with a maximum slope of three to one, rising
no less than six feet above the existing grade of the lot line separating the
zoning districts.
      D.   Any combination of these methods that achieves a cumulative height
of six feet.
      E.   Machinery or equipment that raise above the six feet may need
additional screening at the Zoning Administrator’s discretion.
      F.   Utility equipment and appurtenances and screenings shall be
consistent with the building design, colors, and materials.
   3.   Location of Screening Wall. A screening wall or fence shall be
installed no closer to the less intensive zoning district than one-half the
width of the required buffer yard.
   4.   Effect on Drainage. Screening shall not adversely affect surface water
drainage.
173.07   SCREENING STANDARDS OF DUMPSTERS AND RECYCLING AREAS.
   1.   Application. Screening is required to reduce the visibility of dumpster
enclosures and recycling areas in R-3, MH, CC, UC, and LI.
   2.   Opaque Barrier. A six-foot opaque barrier shall be provided which
visually screens the area.
      A.   A solid wood or masonry fence or wall at least six feet in height.
      B.   Must enclose the area around at least three sides.
      C.   Contain a pedestrian entrance.
      D.   Have an access gate that meets Metro Waste Authority standards.
   3.   Landscaping. If the area is located within a larger paved area, such as
a parking lot, the following applies:
      A.   A landscape buffer of at least five feet shall be located along all
sides of the non-gated sides.
      B.   One tree shall be provided in the landscape buffer.
      C.   Ornamental grasses, shrubs, or similar landscape materials shall
cover a minimum of 50 percent of the buffer area.
173.08   LANDSCAPING MATERIALS AND INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   1.   List of Plant Material. No plant material contained on the Restricted
List of Plant Material shall be used to fulfill landscape requirements. This
list is provided through the office of the Zoning Administrator. These plants
are restricted from use because of problems with disease, maintenance, or
suitability.
   2.   Official List of Plant Materials. All plant material installed in
landscaped areas or buffer yards shall be consistent with the Official List of
Plant Materials provided below or approved as a substitute by the office of the
Zoning Administrator. All plant materials shall conform in size, species, and
spacing with this section of the Zoning Code. The following materials are
permitted, encouraged, or prohibited, based on categories. See the Iowa Urban
Tree Council website for the ash tree replacement list.
   3.   Delay in Planting. All planting shall be installed prior to occupancy
or commencement of a use. If the plantings cannot be installed prior to
occupancy or commencement of a use due to seasonal conditions that may reduce
survivability, the Zoning Administrator may issue a temporary Certificate of
Occupancy and grant a delay of installation until the seasonal calendar dates
of June 1 or November 1, whichever occurs first, and the property owner must
place in an escrow account, established with the City, an amount which will
cover 110 percent of the estimated cost of plants and installation.
Windsor Heights Tree and Plant List
Partial Listing of Large Shade Trees for Planting on Public and Private
Property
Common Name Botanical or Latin Name Typical Mature Width, Height, and Rate
Windsor Heights Tree and Plant List
Partial Listing of Large Shade Trees for Planting on Public and Private
Property
Common Name                  Botanical or Latin Name    Typical Mature Width,
                                                        Height, and Rate
Blackgum                     Nyssa sylvatica
Yellowwood                   Cladrastis kentuckea
Tulip tree                   Liriodendron tulipifera
Bald Cypress                 Taxodium distichum
River Birch                  Betula nigra
Hackberry                    Celtis occidentalis
Honey locust varieties       Gleditsia triacanthos var. 72 - 100 ft.
(thornless)                  inermis
Kentucky Coffee Tree - Male  Gymnocladus dioicus
Only
Ginkgo, Maidenhair Tree -    Ginkgo biloba
Male Only
Oaks                         Quercus sp.
Lindens                      Tilia sp.
American Elm (Dutch Elm      Ulmus americana cultivars
Disease resistant cultivars)
Windsor Heights Tree and Plant List
Evergreens for Planting on Public and Private Property
Common Name Botanical or Latin Name Typical Mature Width, Height, and Rate
Windsor Heights Tree and Plant List
Evergreens for Planting on Public and Private Property
Common Name               Botanical or Latin Name     Typical Mature Width,
                                                      Height, and Rate
Densiformis Yews          Taxus x media ‘Densiformis’
Eastern Red Cedar         Juniperus virginiana
Norway Spruce             Picea abies
Blackhills Spruce         Picea glauca densata
Colorado Blue Spruce      Picea pungens glauca
Jack Pine                 Pinus banksiana
Ponderosa Pine            Pinus ponderosa
Swiss Mountain Pine       Pinus mugho mughus
Eastern White Pine        Pinus strobus
White Fir                 Abies concolor
Arborvitae                Thuja occidentalis
Colorado Blue Spruce (Fat Picea pungens
Albert)
Windsor Heights Restricted Tree and Plant List
Tree Planting Prohibited on Street Right-of-Way and Not Recommended for
Private Property
Common Name Botanical or Latin Name Typical Mature Width, Height, and Rate
Windsor Heights Restricted Tree and Plant List
Tree Planting Prohibited on Street Right-of-Way and Not Recommended for Private
Property
Common Name           Botanical or Latin Name Typical Mature Width, Height, and
                                              Rate
Amur Maple            Acer ginnala
Box Elder             Acer negundo
Silver Maples         Acer saccharinum
Norway Maples         Acer platanoides
Tree of Heaven        Ailanthus altissima
White Birch*          Betula papyrifera
Catalpa*              Catalpa species
Ash                   Fraxinus species
Thorny Honey Locust   Gleditsia tricanthos
Honeysuckle           Lonicera species
Mulberry              Morus species
Pin Oak*              Quercus palustris
Black Locust          Robinia pseudoacacia
White Poplar          Populus alba
Lobardy Poplar        Populus nigra
Cherries*             Prunus species
Willows*              Salix species
All evergreen trees*
All “weeping” plants*
*Trees bearing fruits and nuts over one foot diameter
* - denotes allowable for private property
Windsor Heights Tree and Plant List
Dense Deciduous Shrub List for Screening
Common Name Botanical or Latin Name Typical Mature Width, Height, and Rate
Large
Windsor Heights Tree and Plant List
Dense Deciduous Shrub List for Screening
Common Name    Botanical or Latin Name  Typical Mature Width, Height, and Rate
Large
Hedge          Cotoneaster lucida       8-10¢ x 4-5¢
Cotoneaster
Ninebark       Physocarpus opulifolius  8-10¢ x 8-10¢
               ‘Diablo’
Nanking Cherry Prunus tomentosa         8-10¢
Preston Lilac  Syringa x prestoniae
Arrowwood      Viburnum dentatum        8¢ x 8¢
Viburnum
European
Cranberry      Viburnum opulus          8-12¢ x 10-12¢
Viburnum
American
Cranberry Bush Viburnum trilobum        10¢ x 8¢
Viburnum
Arborvitae – any species not prone to splitting
Medium
Fragrant Sumac Rhus aromatica           6¢ x 5¢
Alpine Current Ribes alpinum            5¢ x 8¢
Bridal Wreath  Spirea x vanhouttei      6¢ x 6¢
Spirea
Dwarf Korean   Syringa meyeri palibin   6¢ x 10¢
Lilac
Compact
American       Viburnum trilobum        6¢ x 6¢
Cranberry      Compact cv.
Viburnum
Small
Dwarf Ninebark Physocarpus opulifolius  3¢ x 3¢
               nanus
Potentilla     Potentilla fruiticosa    3¢ x 3¢
varieties      cv.
Gro-Low Sumac  Rhus aromatica Gro-Low   2 x 4-5¢
Green Mound    Ribes alpinum Green      3-4¢ x 2-3¢
Alpine Current Mound
Dwarf Blue
Leaf Arctic    Salix purpurea nana      4¢ x 4¢
Willow
Spirea         Spirea bumalda cv.       2¢ x 2¢ – 4¢ x 4¢ – varies with
varieties                               cultivar
Japanese                                2¢ x 2¢ – 4¢ x 4¢ – varies with
Spirea         Spirea japonica cv.      cultivar
varieties
Dwarf European
Cranberry Bush Viburnum opulus nanum    3¢ x 3¢
Viburnum
Densiformus
Yews
Hardy shrub
roses
Windsor Heights Tree and Plant List
Evergreen Shrubs
Common Name Botanical or Latin Name Typical Mature Width, Height, and Rate
Windsor Heights Tree and Plant List
Evergreen Shrubs
Common Name              Botanical or Latin Name  Typical Mature Width, Height,
                                                  and Rate
Chinese Junipers         Juniperus chinensis
Blue Holly               Ilex x meserveae
Sea Green Juniper        Juniperus chinensis ‘Sea
                         Green’
Dwarf Creeping Juniper   Juniperus horizontalis
Cross Spreading Japanese Taxus cuspidata
Hicks Yew                Taxus x media ‘Hicksii’
Taunton Yew              Taxus media ‘Taunton’
Densiformus Yews
Green Velvet Boxwood     Buxus x ‘Green Velvet’
Green Mountain Boxwood   Buxus x ‘Green Mountain’
Rhododendron             Rhododendron “PJM”
Windsor Heights Tree List
Small Trees for Under High Wires (with upright branching to avoid pedestrians
on sidewalks)
Common Name Botanical or Latin Name Typical Mature Width, Height, and Rate
Windsor Heights Tree List
Small Trees for Under High Wires (with upright branching to avoid pedestrians
on sidewalks)
Common Name                Botanical or Latin Name   Typical Mature Width,
                                                     Height, and Rate
Robin Hill Serviceberry    Amelanchier x grandiflora
                           ‘Robin Hill’
Amur Maackia               Maackia amurensis         25¢ x 20¢
Adirondack Flowering       Malus Adirondack          20¢ x 10¢
Crabapple, white
Centurion Flowering Crab,  Malus Centurion           20¢ x 12¢
rose-red
Red Barron Flowering Crab, Malus Red Barron          18¢ x 8¢
rose
Sentinel Flowering Crab,   Malus Sentinel            20¢ x 12¢
white
Ivory Silk Japanese Tree   Syringa reticulata ‘Ivor20¢ x 15¢
Lilac                      Silk’
Windsor Heights Tree List
Small Trees for Under High Wires (where sidewalk clearance is not an issue)
Common Name Botanical or Latin Name Typical Mature Width, Height, and Rate
Windsor Heights Tree List
Small Trees for Under High Wires (where sidewalk clearance is not an issue)
Common Name                 Botanical or Latin Name  Typical Mature Width,
                                                     Height, and Rate
Shadblow Serviceberry, tree Amelanchier canadensis   25¢ x 15¢
form
Autumn Brilliance           Amelanchier g. Autumn    20¢ x 25¢
Serviceberry                Brilliance
American Hornbeam           Carpinus caroliniana     25¢ x 20¢
Eastern Redbud              Cercis canadensis        25¢ x 20¢
Pagoda Dogwood              Cornus alternifolia      20¢ x 15¢
Washington Hawthorn         Crataegus phaenopyrum    20¢ x 20¢
Winter King Hawthorn        Crataegus v. Winter King 20¢ x 20¢
Common Witch-hazel          Hamamelis virginiana     12-15¢ x 12¢
American Hophornbeam        Ostrya virginiana        35¢ x 25¢
Cherry - Manchurian cherry  Prunus maackii           25¢ x 25¢
Chanticleer Flowering Pear  Pyrus calleryana         35¢ x 15¢
                            ‘Chanticleer’
Windsor Heights Tree List
Permitted Disease Resistant Flowering Crabapples (not a comprehensive list)
Common Name Botanical or Latin Name Typical Mature Width, Height, and Rate
Windsor Heights Tree List
Permitted Disease Resistant Flowering Crabapples (not a comprehensive list)
Common Name                  Botanical or Latin Name     Typical Mature Width,
                                                         Height, and Rate
Adams Crabapple (red to pink
flowers, red persistent      Malus ‘Adams’           15¢ x 20¢
fruit)
Baccata ‘Jackii’         Malus baccata ‘Jackii’  20¢ x 20¢
Beverly (white flowers, red  Malus (crabapple) x.        20¢ x 20¢
fruit)                       'Beverly'
Candied Apple (pink flowers, Malus hybrida               15¢ x 15¢
red persistent fruit,)
Callaway                     Malus x ‘Callaway’      20¢ x 20¢
Cardinal                     Malus ‘Cardinal’        16¢ x 20¢
David (white flowers, red    Malus ‘David’           12¢ x 12¢
persistent fruit)
Donald Wyman (white flowers, Malus ‘Donald Wyman’    20¢ x 24¢
red persistent fruit)
Golden Raindrops (white
flowers, yellow persistent   Malus ‘Schmidtcutleaf’  20¢ x 15¢
fruit)
Jewelberry (white flowers,   Malus ‘Jewelberry’      8¢ x 12¢
red fruit)
Liset (dark red flowers,     Malus x moerlandsii ‘Liset15¢ x 15¢
maroon fruit)
Louisa (pink flowers, yellow Malus ‘Louisa’          15¢ x 15¢
fruit)
Ormiston Roy (white flowers, Malus ‘Ormiston Roy’    20¢ x 25¢
amber persistent fruit)
Pink Princess (pink flowers, Malus ‘Parrsi’          8¢ x 12¢
deep red fruit)
Prairifire (rose-red
flowers, dark red persistent Malus ‘Prairifire’      20¢ x 20¢
fruit)
Professor Sprenger (white
flowers, orange-red          Malus ‘Professor Sprenger�20¢ x 20¢
persistent fruit)
Robinson (deep pink flowers, Malus ‘Robinson’        25¢ x 20¢
red fruit)
Sargent (white flowers, red  Malus sargentii             8¢ x 12¢
persistent fruit)
Strawberry Parfait           Malus ‘Strawbery Parfait�18¢ x 22¢
Sugar Tyme (white flowers,   Malus ‘Sutyzam’         18¢ x 15¢
red fruit)
Zumi Calocarpa (white        Malus x zumi ‘Calocarpa’15¢ x 15¢
flowers, red fruit)
Windsor Heights Tree/Plant List
Plants with Good to Moderate Salt Tolerance
Common Name Botanical or Latin Name Typical Mature Width, Height, and Rate
Windsor Heights Tree/Plant List
Plants with Good to Moderate Salt Tolerance
Common Name                  Botanical or Latin Name     Typical Mature Width,
                                                         Height, and Rate
Deciduous Shrubs
St. John’s Wort            Hypericum prolificum        4¢ x 4¢
Lilacs (Miss Kim)            Syringa pubescens subsp.
                             patula
Northern Bayberry            Myrica pennsylvanica        9¢ x 6¢
Mock orange, size varies     Philadelphus spp. and cvs.
with species
Cinquefoil, 3¢ x 3¢        Potentilla spp. and cvs.    3¢ x 3¢
Smooth Sumac                 Rhus glabra                 10¢ x 5¢
Staghorn Sumac               Rhus typhina                24¢ x 12¢
Snowberry                    Symphoricarpos albus        3¢ x 3¢
Common Lilac                 Syringa vulgaris            12¢x10¢
Arrowwood Viburnum           Viburnum dentatum           6¢ x 6¢
Deciduous Trees
Common Horsechestnut         Aesculus hippocastanum
Shadblow Serviceberry        Amelanchier Canadensis
Northern Catalpa             Catalpa speciosa
Hackberry                    Celtis occidentalis
Cockspur Hawthorn            Crataegus crus-galli
Maidenhair or Ginkgo         Ginkgo biloba - Male only
Honey Locust                 Gleditsia tricanthos
Kentucky Coffee Tree) - Male Gymnocladus dioicus
only
Cottonwood                   Populus deltoides
Quaking Aspen                Populus tremuloides
Black Cherry                 Prunus serotina
Choke Cherry                 Prunus virginiana
White Oak                    Quercus alba
Burr Oak                     Quercus macrocarpa
Red Oak                      Quercus rubra
Groundcovers:
Bugleweed                    Ajuga reptans
Goutweed                     Aegopodium podagraria
Creeping Cotoneaster         Cotoneaster adpressa
Bearberry Cotoneaster        Cotoneaster dammeri
Rockspray Cotoneaster        Cotoneaster horizontalis
Hesse Cotoneaster            Cotoneaster horizontalis
                             ‘Hessei’
Wintercreeper                Euonymus fortunei cultivars
English Ivy                  Hedera helix
Plantain Lily                Cultivars Hosta cultivars
Japanese Garden Juniper      Juniperus chinensis
                             procumbens
Gro-low sumac                Rhus aromatica ‘Gro-low’
Periwinkle                   Vinca minor
 
CHAPTER 174
ZONING CODE - ACCESS AND PARKING
 
174.01 Purpose                        174.08 Parking for People with
                                      Disabilities
174.02 General Provisions             174.09 Off-Street Parking Design
                                      Standards
174.03 Pedestrian Connectivity        174.10 Off-Street Loading
174.04 Schedule of Off-Street Parking 174.11 Parking for Personal Vehicles
Requirements
174.05 Short-Term Bike Parking        174.12 Parking for Recreational Vehicles
174.06 Long-Term Bike Parking         174.13 Storage and Parking of Unlicensed
                                      Vehicles
174.07 Parking Facility Location
 
174.01   PURPOSE.
   The Access and Parking Regulations require that developments provide safe,
direct, and convenient access for pedestrians, bicycles, automobiles, and
loading in proportion to the need created by each use. The regulations further
establish standards for the functional design of parking facilities. These
regulations are intended to accommodate vehicles in a functionally satisfactory
manner and to minimize external effects on neighboring properties.
174.02   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   Applicability. Off-street parking shall be provided for any new
building constructed, for new uses or conversions of existing buildings, or for
enlargements of existing structures.
   2.   Heavy commercial vehicles, including tractor cab units weighing more
than two point five tons gross empty weight, shall not be parked on any lot
within the R-1, R-2, R-3, and MH Residential Zoning Districts. Recreational
vehicles meeting the definition of heavy commercial vehicles shall only be
allowed on any lot within the R-1, R-2, R-3, and MH Residential Zoning
Districts if they comply with the special provisions listed below.
   3.   Exemptions. Any current use existing within the UC Urban Center
District before the effective date of this Code is exempt from the off-street
parking requirements provided by Section 174.04. Any off-street parking
facility constructed in the UC District after the effective date of this Zoning
Code must comply with the design standards set forth in this chapter.
174.03   PEDESTRIAN CONNECTIVITY.
   1.   Sites shall be designed with delineated sidewalks, walkways, and paths
to provide continuous circulation throughout the site connecting principal
structures, dwelling units, parking areas, parking garages, and other prominent
features. Pedestrian connections shall be made between the internal circulation
system and the adjacent public sidewalk or trail systems. The site shall be
organized so that the buildings frame and reinforce pedestrian circulation
between lots.
   2.   Sites shall be designed to limit the number of pedestrian and motorist
conflict points.
   3.   Sidewalks shall be a minimum of six feet unless specifically exempted
by the Administrative Official or other Administrative Official.
   4.   Developments shall have pedestrian amenities such as walkways, benches,
etc.
   5.   Enhanced pedestrian elements at the sidewalk level including decorative
lighting, seating, or low sitting walls, planters, enhanced paving techniques,
etc., shall be incorporated into the theme.
   6.   To promote a higher level of pedestrian awareness, the use of alternate
paving materials to designate pedestrian traffic areas from vehicular use areas
and travel lanes is required. Mere cuts in the concrete will not be sufficient
to meet the requirements of this section.
174.04   SCHEDULE OF OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
Parking facilities for each use shall be provided in accord with the minimum
requirements set forth in
Table 174.04-01.
   1.   When a computation of required parking results in a fraction of zero
point five or greater, the requirement should be rounded up to the next whole
number.
   2.   Unless otherwise indicated, parking requirements are based on gross
floor area. Gross floor areas for the purpose of this calculation exclude any
interior space used for the parking or loading of vehicles.
   3.   When parking requirements are computed on the basis of capacity,
capacity shall be determined by the Building Code in effect for the City at the
time the use is established.
   4.   For sites with more than one use, the parking requirement shall be the
sum of spaces required for each use, except as provided below.
   5.   The Board of Adjustment may authorize an adjustment in the total
parking requirement for separate uses located on the same site or for separate
uses located on adjoining sites and served by the same parking facility. The
Board of Adjustment shall consider at least the following criteria in
determining approval of such an adjustment:
      A.   The characteristics and time of operation of each use, and
differences in projected peak parking demand.
      B.   Potential reduction in total expected vehicle movements afforded by
multiple uses of the parking facilities.
      C.   Functional design of the development and its parking facilities.
   D.   Evidence of a written agreement that provides for the joint use of
parking facilities within 300 feet of the use.
Table 174.04-01 Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements
Use Required Spaces
Table 174.04-01 Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements
Use                                   Required Spaces
Administration                        1 space for 1,000 square feet
Agricultural Sales or Service         1 space per 5,000 square feet
Landfills (All types)                 No requirement
Auto Rental and Sales                 1 space per 1,000 square feet
Auto Service                          1 space per 500 square feet
Body Repair                           1 space per 500 square feet
Broadcasting Tower                    No requirement
Business Support                      1 space per 500 square feet
Campground                            1 space per camping unit
Cemetery                              No requirement
Civic Organizations                   1 space per 1,000 square feet
Bars                                  1 space per 350 square feet
Commercial Recreation (All types)     1 space per 500 square feet
Communications Services               1 space per 500 square feet
Community Garden                      No requirement
Construction Sales                    1 space per 2,000 square feet
Construction Yards                    1 space per 5,000 square feet
Consumer Services                     1 space per 500 square feet
In-Patient Services                   1 space for 1,000 square feet
Convenience Storage                   1 space per 20 storage units
Crop Production                       No requirement
Cultural Services                     1 space per 2,000 square feet
Custom Manufacturing                  1 space per 2,000 square feet
Daycare Services                      1 space per 500 square feet
Two Unit Residential                  1 space per dwelling unit
Equipment Sales or Service            1 space per 1,000 square feet
Food Sales (all types)                1 space per 200 square feet
Financial Services                    1 space per 1,000 square feet
Gaming Facilities                     1 space per 500 square feet
General Industry                      1 space per 2,000 square feet or as
                                      approved by the Zoning Administrator
General Offices                       1 space per 500 square feet
General Retail Services (All types)   1 space per 500 square feet
Group Care Facility                   1 space per 1,000 square feet
Group Home                            1 space per 1,000 square feet
Group Residential                     1 space for each two residents
Guidance Services                     1 space per 1,000 square feet
Health Care (Small-scale)             1 space per 1.5 beds
Health Care (Large-scale)             1 space per 1.5 beds
Heavy Industry                        1 space per 5,000 square feet or as
                                      approved by the Zoning Administrator
Horticulture                          No requirement
Library, Museum, or Cultural Facility 1 space per 1,000 square feet
Light Industry                        1 space per 1,000 square feet or as
                                      approved by the Zoning Administrator
Liquor Sales                          1 space per 500 square feet
Lodging                               1 space per sleeping room
Maintenance Facilities                1 space per 1,000 square feet
Medical Offices                       1 space per 500 square feet
Mobile Home Residential               1 space per dwelling unit
Multi-Family Residential              1 space per dwelling unit
Non-Putrescible Landfill              No requirement
Pawn Shop                             1 space per 500 square feet
Personal Improvement Services         1 space per 250 square feet
Personal Services                     1 space per 500 square feet
Pet Services                          1 space per 1,000 square feet
Railroad Facilities                   1 space per 1,000 square feet
Resource Extraction                   1 space per 5,000 square feet
Restaurants (Drive-In)                1 space per 350 square feet
Restaurants (General)                 1 space per 350 square feet
Salvage Services                      1 space per 2,000 square feet or as
                                      approved by the Zoning Administrator
Single-Family Residential             2 spaces per dwelling unit
Commercial breeders                   1 space per 1000 square feet
Surplus Sales                         1 space per 2,000 square feet
Trade Services                        1 space per 500 square feet
Veterinary Services                   1 space per 500 square feet
Warehousing                           1 space per 5,000 square feet or as
                                      approved by the Zoning Administrator
 
174.05   SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING.
   1.   Minimum Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces for Bicycles.
      A.   Refer to
Table 174.06-01 for minimum space requirements.
   2.   Dimensions.
      A.   Each rack must be at least three feet apart from each other and six
feet long. There shall be an unimpeded rectangle of space centered on the bike
rack that is six feet long and three feet wide.
   3.   Location of Bicycle Parking Areas.
      A.   Bicycle parking shall be placed within 100 feet of and clearly
visible from the main entrance.
      B.   The Zoning Administrator may approve an alternate location provided
that the location meets the intent of this section.
   4.   Design and Construction of Bicycle Parking Areas.
      A.   All bicycle parking areas shall be hard surfaced with asphalt,
concrete, pervious pavement, pavers, or other material to provide a durable,
dust-free surface.
      B.   All bike racks shall be:
         (1)   Securely anchored;
         (2)   Able to support the bicycle frame in at least two places; and
         (3)   Allow the locking of a bicycle frame and at least one wheel with
a U-lock.
      C.   All short-term bicycle racks shall either be an “inverted u” or
“post and ring” style.
      D.   All bicycle parking spaces shall be constructed in accordance with
the latest version of the Association of Pedestrian and Bicycle Professionals
Bicycle Parking Guidelines.
   5.   Minimum Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces for Bicycles.
      A.   Refer to
Table 174.06-01 for minimum requirements.
174.06   LONG-TERM BIKE PARKING.
   1.   Minimum Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces for Bicycles.
      A.   Refer to
Table 174.06-01 for minimum space requirements.
   2.   Dimensions.
      A.   The total space of the bike room shall be at least 18 square feet
for each required bike space with a minimum overall size of 100 square feet.
   3.   Location of Bicycle Parking Areas.
      A.   Bicycle parking shall be located on the same site and within the
building, or within 300 feet of the main entrance.
      B.   The Zoning Administrator may approve an alternate location provided
that the location meets the intent of this section.
   4.   Design and Construction of Bicycle Parking Areas.
      A.   All bicycle parking areas shall be hard surfaced with asphalt,
concrete, pervious pavement, pavers, or other material to provide a durable,
dust-free surface.
      B.   All bicycle parking areas shall be within a building or provided
with a permanent cover including, but not limited to, roof overhangs, awnings,
or bicycle storage lockers.
      C.   All bike racks shall be:
         (1)   Securely anchored;
         (2)   Able to support the bicycle frame in at least two places; and
         (3)   Allow the locking of a bicycle frame and at least one wheel with
a U-lock.
      D.   Long-term bicycle racks shall be:
         (1)   “Inverted u” or “post and ring” style; or
         (2)   “Staggered wheel,” “well-secure,” “vertical,” or “two-tier”
style with no more than 75 percent of total long-term bicycle racks being this
type.
      E.   All bicycle parking spaces shall be constructed in accordance with
the latest version of the Association of Pedestrian and Bicycle Professionals
Bicycle Parking Guidelines.
   5.   Minimum Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces for Bicycles.
      A.   Refer to
Table 174.06-01 for minimum requirements.
Table 174.06-01 Minimum Bicycle Parking Requirements
Use Type Short Term Spaces Required Long-Term Spaces
Table 174.06-01 Minimum Bicycle Parking Requirements
Use Type               Short Term Spaces Required Long-Term Spaces
Agricultural Use Types None required              None required
Residential Use Types  1 per 4 dwelling units     1 per 10 dwelling units
Commercial Use Types   1 per 4,000sq.ft.          1 per 10,000sq.ft.
Civic Use Types        1 per 4,000sq.ft.          1 per 10,000sq.ft.
Office Use Types       1 per 4,000sq.ft.          1 per 10,000sq.ft.
Industrial Use Types   None required              1 per 20,000sq.ft.
 
174.07   PARKING FACILITY LOCATION.
   1.   Residential Parking.
      A.   Off-street parking for residential one or two-family uses shall be
located on the same lot or site as the use.
         (1)   Restriction. Off-street parking shall not be located in the
required front yard setback.
         (2)   Continuous. The parking stalls shall be continuous with the
improved drive.
      B.   Off-street parking areas for multi-family residential uses shall be
at least six feet from any residential building and shall not be located within
a required front yard.
174.08   PARKING FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES.
   1.   Dimensions.
      A.   All parking spaces shall follow
Table 174.08-01 Minimum Parking Lot Design Requirements.
   2.   Pavement and Drainage.
      A.   Off-street parking facilities shall be hard-surfaced and maintained
with materials sufficient to prevent mud, dust, or loose material. Acceptable
hard surface materials shall include concrete, asphalt, brick, or concrete
pavers.
         (1)   Off-street parking facilities shall be designed and built to
prevent the free flow of water onto adjacent properties or public rights-of-
way.
   3.   Areas where parking lots or drive lanes are visible from the public
street shall provide a significant level of screening through the use of any of
the following:
      A.   Earthen berms.
      B.   Three feet or higher in conjunction with vegetation.
      C.   Landscaped walls.
      D.   Walls constructed for the retainment of soil which are greater than
four feet in height shall be designed by an individual knowledgeable and
certified in structural engineering.
      E.   Walls may be brick, individual decorative modular wall stone,
natural stacked wall, or filed stone. Walls composed of landscape timbers or
other wood products are not desired due to the deterioration potential of the
material. Wood walls may be used, with approval by the Administrative Official
or Planning and Zoning Commission and Council, in areas where views of the wall
are minimal.
      F.   Plants shall be at least every 10 feet along all types of walls to
soften the visual impact, visually break up long expanses of the wall, and to
visually anchor it to the site. Accessory plant screening shall be of evergreen
materials.
      G.   Perimeter masonry screen walls are required accessory plants at
least every 10 feet. Where possible, landscaping shall be provided within a
minimum four feet wide planting bed and include trees, shrubs, or groundcovers.
Landscaping shall coordinate with the streetscape landscaping. Landscaping
shall be kept in a neat and orderly manner.
   4.   Landscape and Screening Requirements. Unless otherwise noted, each
unenclosed parking facility of over 3,000 square feet shall comply with the
following regulations:
      A.   Each unenclosed parking facility shall provide a minimum landscaped
buffer of 10 feet along any street property line.
      B.   Each parking facility that abuts a residential district shall
provide a 10-foot landscaped buffer along its common property line with the
residential district.
      C.   Any parking facility which abuts property in a residential district
shall provide a fence, wall, landscape screen, or earth berm not less than four
feet in height for the length of the common boundary. A grade change, terrace,
or other site feature which blocks the sight line of headlights into a
residential property may satisfy this requirement, subject to the determination
of the Zoning Administrator.
      D.   All off-street parking areas shall include at least one required
landscape island for every 12 required parking spaces.
         (1)   Each required landscape island shall measure a minimum of 190
square feet in area.
         (2)   Each required island shall contain a minimum of one deciduous
shade tree or one deciduous ornamental tree.
            a.   At least 10 percent of the island’s land area shall have plant
material other than sod or grass installed, not including the minimum required
tree.
            b.   The remainder of the landscape pods and islands shall be
sodded or mulched. If mulched, mulch shall be replenished annually; volcano
mulching around trees is not permissible. Pea gravel and lava rocks will not be
allowed.
         (3)   Parking islands should be located at the end of parking bays so
as to define vehicular and pedestrian traffic patterns.
         (4)   The Zoning Administrator may approve a design where landscape
islands are aggregated into one or more larger landscape islands.
      E.   Interior landscaping shall be credited toward the satisfaction of
overall landscaping requirements set forth in
Chapter 173.
   5.   Entrances and Exits.
      A.   Adequate access to each parking facility shall be provided by means
of clearly defined and limited driveways or access points. Such driveways shall
be designed to direct non-residential traffic away from residential areas.
      B.   Parking facilities other than driveways for single-family, two-
family, or mobile home residential uses must permit vehicles to enter streets
in a forward position.
      C.   Shared driveways between abutting properties are encouraged,
provided that an access easement exists between all property owners.
   6.   Lighting. Lighting is required for all parking lots.
      A.   Lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area shall be
arranged to direct light away from residential uses and the right-of-way.
   7.   Maintenance. All parking facilities shall be maintained to ensure the
continued usefulness and compatibility of the facility. Acceptable maintenance
includes keeping the facility free of refuse, debris, carts, and litter;
maintaining parking surfaces in sound condition; maintaining aisle lines and
the painted surfaces of signs; and providing proper care of landscaped areas.
   8.   Adjustment. For uses subject to Conditional Use Permit approval, the
Board of Adjustment may adjust the minimum requirements of this section, in
order to provide design, usability, attractiveness, or protection to adjoining
uses in a manner equal to or greater than the minimum requirements of this
chapter.
 
Table 174.08-01 Minimum Parking Lot Design Requirements
Space Angle   Space Width Parking Row Curb Width Drive Aisle    Drive Aisle
                          Depth                  Width: One-Way Width: Two Way
Parallel (0°)8’        8’        22’      12’          22’
45°          8’6”    18’       12’9”  15’          24’
60°          9’        19’       10’5”  18’          24’
Perpendicular 9’        18’       9’       24’          24’
(90°)
 
174.09   OFF-STREET PARKING DESIGN STANDARDS.
   1.   Loading Requirement. Any use which involves the receipt or distribution
of freight, merchandise, supplies, vehicles, or equipment as part of its
typical operation shall provide and maintain adequate space for off-street
loading and circulation. Loading areas shall be designed to avoid undue
interference with the public use of streets and sidewalks. Schedule of Loading
Spaces. Loading spaces for each use requiring them shall be provided in accord
with the minimum requirements set forth in
Table 174.09-01 Off-Street Loading Requirements Structures.
 
Table 174.09-01 Off-Street Loading Requirements Structures
Gross Floor Area of Use (square feet) Number of Required Loading Spaces
5,000 or less                         None
5,001 – 25,000                      1
25,001 – 75,000                     2
Larger than 75,000                    3
 
   2.   Design Standards.
      A.   Each loading space shall be at least 10 feet wide by 50 feet long,
with a vertical clearance of at least 14 feet.
      B.   Paving of loading spaces and access areas shall be permanent,
durable, and free of dust.
      C.   Off-street loading areas are subject to the landscaping and
buffering requirements for parking facilities set forth in this chapter.
174.10   OFF-STREET LOADING.
Each off-street parking facility shall provide the number of parking spaces set
forth in
Table 174.10-01 designed and designated for use by people with disabilities.
Design criteria and dimensions are set forth in the Off-Street Parking Design
Standards and the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act. Please
refer to Sections 208 and 502 of the 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design
for parking spaces and 209 and 503 of the 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible
Design for passenger loading zones.
   1.   Location. In parking lots or garages, accessible parking spaces must be
located on the shortest accessible route to the accessible entrance. An
accessible route is the path a person with a disability takes to enter and move
through a building or facility.
   2.   Access Aisles. Accessible parking spaces must have access to aisles.
Access aisles provide a designated area for people who use wheelchairs or other
mobility devices to get in and out of their car or van. Mobility devices allow
people with disabilities to move about independently. They include walkers,
canes, crutches, braces, manual or power wheelchairs, Segways, and electric
scooters. Access aisles shall be:
      A.   Marked.
      B.   The same length as the space.
      C.   Level with the parking space.
   3.   Van Accessible.
      A.   The first space and at least one out of every six parking spaces
shall be van accessible.
         (1)   Van accessible spaces (Option 1):
            a.   Be at least 132 inches wide.
            b.   Have an access aisle at least 60 inches wide.
            c.   Have no more than a 1.48 (2.08 percent) slope in all
directions.
            d.   Provide at least 98 inches of vertical clearance (van height)
for the parking space, access aisle, and vehicular route.
            e.   Have a surface that is firm, stable, and slip resistant.
            f.   Have two signs, the international symbol of accessibility and
another stating that the space is van accessible, mounted at least 60 inches
above the ground measured to the bottom of the sign.
            (2)   Van accessible spaces (Option 2):
            a.   Be at least 96 inches wide.
            b.   Have an access aisle at least 96 inches wide.
            c.   Have no more than a 1.48 (2.08 percent) slope in all
directions.
            d.   Provide at least 98 inches of vertical clearance (van height)
for the parking space, access aisle, and vehicular route.
            e.   Have a surface that is firm, stable, and slip resistant.
            f.   Have two signs, the international symbol of accessibility and
another stating that the space is van accessible, mounted at least 60 inches
above the ground measured to the bottom of the sign.
   4.   Car Accessible. All spaces that are not van accessible shall be car
accessible as defined below.
      A.   Be at least 96 inches wide.
      B.   Have an access aisle at least 60 inches wide.
      C.   Have no more than a 1.48 (2.08 percent) slope in all directions.
      D.   Have a surface that is firm, stable, and slip resistant.
      E.   Have a sign with the international symbol of accessibility on it,
mounted at least 60 inches above the ground measured to the bottom of the sign.
Table 174.10-01 Accessible Parking Requirements
Number of Stalls Minimum Number of Required Accessible Spaces
Table 174.10-01 Accessible Parking Requirements
Number of Stalls Minimum Number of Required Accessible Spaces
01-25            1
26-50            2
51-75            3
76-100           4
101-150          5
151-200          6
201-300          7
301-400          8
401-500          9
501-1,000        2% of total parking provided
1,001 and over   20, plus 1 for every 100 stalls over 1,000
*One in every six accessible spaces, but not less than one, shall be served by
an access aisle with a minimum width of 96 inches and shall be designated as
“Van Accessible.”
 
174.11   PARKING FOR PERSONAL VEHICLES.
   1.   Applicability. This section permits the parking of personal vehicles on
a single lot in a residential district subject to specific conditions. Personal
vehicles include passenger cars; vans; pickup trucks, recreational vehicles,
camper shells, toppers, and other similar items intended for attachment to a
personal vehicle; trucks, tractor cab units, trailers, and trailers longer than
20 feet, and vehicles over two point five tons gross empty weight shall be
defined as heavy commercial vehicles.
   2.   Location of Parking for Personal Vehicles.
      A.   Parking is permitted within any enclosed structure when such
structure conforms to the regulations of its zoning district.
      B.   Parking of personal vehicles is permitted on a paved driveway,
outside of an enclosed structure, within the front yard setback, but shall in
no case encroach upon the public right-of-way.
      C.   Parking of personal vehicles may occur in the rear yard setback,
outside of an enclosed structure and not on the front yard paved driveway, if
such parking meets the following conditions:
         (1)   The parking space is provided on a surface consisting of
asphalt, concrete, brick, or paving stones made of one of the aforementioned
substances. Parking is prohibited on gravel, regrind, crushed concrete or
asphalt, sand, dirt, grass, or other surfaces not mentioned in this section.
         (2)   The parking surface shall be no less than the overall length and
width of the vehicle parked on the surface.
         (3)   The parking surface shall not exceed the maximum impervious
coverage limit for the lot.
      D.   In areas not zoned for commercial use, parking of vehicles on
private property for the purpose of sale of such vehicles is prohibited.
174.12   PARKING FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   1.   Special Provisions for Recreational Vehicles and Boats. Parking and
storage of recreational vehicles and boats within residential districts are
subject to the following additional conditions. These conditions are in
addition to those requirements for the parking of personal vehicles.
      A.   Recreational vehicles and boats must be maintained in a clean, well-
kept state.
      B.   Recreational vehicles and boats equipped with liquefied petroleum
gas containers must ensure that such containers meet the current standards of
the Interstate Commerce Commission, the United States Department of
Transportation, or the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. Any valves
must be closed at all times that the vehicle is not in preparation for
immediate use. Leaks in containers must be repaired immediately.
      C.   Recreational vehicles may be used as temporary housing by non-paying
guests for a maximum of three consecutive days and no more than 14 days total
during any calendar year. Cooking in the recreational vehicle is prohibited at
all times.
      D.   Recreational vehicles and boats may not be permanently connected to
utility lines.
      E.   Recreational vehicles and boats may not be used for the storage of
goods, materials, or equipment other than those items which pertain to the use
of the vehicle.
      F.   Recreational vehicles and boats shall be parked outside of required
front yard setbacks.
      G.   No more than two recreational vehicles or boats may be parked on a
single property at any one time. Any recreational vehicle or boat parked on a
property must be owned, in whole or in part, by the resident of the property.
174.13   STORAGE AND PARKING OF UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
   1.   The storage or keeping of motor vehicles not having a properly issued
current motor vehicle registration and current motor vehicle license plate
properly displayed is prohibited on any lot, parcel, or tract of land, or part
thereof, situated within the zoning jurisdiction of the City; provided,
conformance with the following shall not constitute a violation of this
section:
      A.   The storage of any unlicensed or unregistered motor vehicle in a
fully enclosed garage.
      B.   Parking, storage, or keeping, other than in a fully enclosed garage
of any non-operable motor vehicle, is prohibited on any residential zoned lot,
parcel or tract of land, or part thereof, situated within the zoning
jurisdiction of the City; provided, however, automobiles that are non-operable
by reasons of repair work being done thereon may be parked on the residential
lot of the owner of said automobile within the City’s zoning jurisdiction under
the following conditions:
         (1)   The automobile is owned by the occupier of the premises and
registered to them at that address.
         (2)   The period of said repair work does not exceed 10 days in
duration.
         (3)   Repair work is at all times conducted on a paved driveway.
         (4)   No more than one automobile in need of repair is situated on the
premises at the same time.
CHAPTER 175
ZONING CODE - SIGN REGULATIONS
 
175.01 Purpose                               175.06 Other Design Elements
175.02 General Permit Procedures             175.07 Use of Compatible Materials
175.03 Exempt Signs                          175.08 Sign Area
175.04 General Sign and Street Graphics      175.09 Permitted Signs
Regulations
175.05 Basic Design Elements for On-Premises 175.10 Nonconforming Signs
Signs
 
175.01   PURPOSE.
   The Sign Regulations provide standards for communicating information in the
environment of the City and its jurisdiction. The regulations recognize the
need to protect public health, safety, and welfare; to maintain the City’s
attractive appearance; to provide for adequate business identification,
advertising, and communication of information; all while protecting and
promoting the free speech and expression rights of citizens within the City.
Any complaint received regarding a sign that comports with these regulations
does not constitute a violation of this Code section.
175.02   GENERAL PERMIT PROCEDURES.
Any installation, modification, or expansion of any sign which is not exempt
from the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the following permit
procedure.
   1.   Maintenance of Valid Sign Permit. The owner of a property containing
signs requiring a permit under this Zoning Code shall at all times maintain in
force a Sign Permit for such property. Sign Permits may be issued for
individual zoned lots, tenants, or sign owners. A Sign Permit may be revoked if
the sign is not maintained in good condition.
   2.   Any person who displays a sign in compliance with this Code may
substitute the message on that sign without first securing any additional
approval, permitting, or notice, provided that any such substitution would not
result in the sign becoming noncompliant.
   3.   Nothing in this Code is intended, or shall be construed, so as to
prevent the strengthening or restoration to a safe condition of a nonconforming
sign for purposes of public health and safety.
   4.   Sign Permit Applications. All applications for Sign Permits shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator in accordance with application
specifications established by the chapter and as otherwise determined by the
Zoning Administrator.
   5.   Application Fees. Each application for a Sign Permit shall be
accompanied by any applicable fees, which shall be established by the Council,
from time to time, by resolution.
   6.   Permit Expiration. If a permanent sign is not constructed in accordance
with an approved permit within six months of the date of approval, such permit
shall lapse. Permits on non-permanent signs lapse in accordance with the
timeline identified on the permit. After 60 days, permits are required to
maintain temporary signs.
   7.   Assignment of Sign Permits. A current and valid Sign Permit shall be
freely assignable to a successor as owner of the property or holder of a
business license for the same premises.
   8.   Temporary Sign Permit Approval. Temporary signs beyond those exempted
under Section
175.03 for purposes of special events, grand openings, or other infrequent
occurrences may be approved by the Zoning Administrator subject to the signs
not being unsightly, obstructing view, or creating other issues or nuisances to
a passerby.
175.03   EXEMPT SIGNS.
The following signs are permitted in any zoning district and are exempt from
other provisions of this chapter.
   1.   Temporary Non-Commercial Signs (R-1, R-2, R-3, and MH Zoning
Districts).
      A.   Up to three temporary or non-temporary signs on R-1, R-2, or R-
3 zoned lots and parcels that are smaller than four square feet in area and not
placed in the public right-of-way. These signs include, with regard to the size
requirements previously stated, but are not limited to:
         (1)   Garage sale signs.
         (2)   Window signs.
         (3)   On-site real estate signs pertaining to the sale, rental, or
development of the property it resides on.
      B.   Up to one temporary sign on R-1, R-2, or R-3 zoned lots and parcels
that are smaller than eight square feet in area and not placed in the public
right-of-way.
   2.   Temporary Commercial Signs (UC, CC, and LI Zoning Districts).
      A.   Up to one temporary sign less than eight square feet in area can be
located in non-exclusive residential districts (UC, CC, and LI Districts) for
the first 250 square feet of interior commercial or general service, retail, or
customer service space and one additional sign for each 3,000 square feet
thereafter. The interior space must be owned or exclusively owned or
exclusively leased by the business. The signs cannot create any disruption or
visibility issues. A maximum of five temporary signs for each business or
tenant can be exempt from permitting under this provision. Additional temporary
signs up to a maximum of 10 may be applied for through a Temporary Sign Permit.
         (1)   Signs shall not be placed in the public right-of-way.
         (2)   Temporary commercial wall and window signs must not cover more
than eight square feet or 20 percent of the commercial building façade,
whichever is the smaller value, and no more than 50 percent of the window sign
is displayed in.
   3.   Other Temporary Signs.
      A.   Official signs authorized by a government or governmental
subdivision, which give traffic, directional, or warning information, or other
official information.
      B.   Neighborhood or subdivision identification signs under 50 square
feet.
      C.   Street numbers or address signs that identify the address of a lot,
structure, or establishment.
      D.   Signs which are not visible from a public right-of-way, private way,
or court or from a property other than that on which the sign is installed,
such as window signs.
      E.   Temporary emergency or special situation signs that the City may
approve the construction of that is not specifically defined in this chapter if
a valid need is shown to exist by virtue of an emergency or special situation.
The duration, location, size, and other conditions regarding the sign shall be
established by the City at the time of the emergency or special situation.
   4.   Signs in Right-Of-Way. Any sign installed or placed on public property
or in the City right-of-way shall be subject to confiscation by City staff. In
addition to other remedies in the Municipal Code, the City shall have the right
to recover from the property owner the full costs or removal and disposal of
such sign.
175.04   GENERAL SIGN AND STREET GRAPHICS REGULATIONS.
   1.   Compliance. Each sign or part of a sign erected within the zoning
jurisdiction of the City must comply with the provisions of this chapter and of
other relevant provisions of this Code.
   2.   Resolution of Conflicting Regulations. This chapter is not meant to
repeal or interfere with the enforcement of other sections of this Code. In
cases of conflicts between Code sections, or State or federal regulations, the
more restrictive regulations shall apply, except where State law or the State
Constitution preempts municipal law, in which case State law or the State
Constitution will govern, or where federal law of the U.S. Constitution
preempts State and municipal law, in which case federal law or the U.S.
Constitution will govern.
   3.   Prohibited Signs. The following signs are prohibited in all zoning
districts.
      A.   Any sign which is structurally unsafe, unsafely installed, or
otherwise hazardous to physical safety.
      B.   Any sign that obstructs free ingress to or egress from a fire
escape, door, window, or other required access way to or from a building or
site.
      C.   Any sign not maintained in good condition.
      D.   Any sign that blocks the vision clearance areas or would obstruct a
driver’s clear line of sight of traffic or pedestrians, or which obscures
official signs or signals.
      E.   Any sign that interferes with the view of, or is confused with, any
traffic control sign or device, and any sign that misleads or confuses traffic
flow. A sign’s position, size, shape, color, and illumination, but not its
content, shall be considered when making such a determination.
      F.   Abandoned signs, which must be removed within six months of the date
of abandonment.
      G.   Electronic changeable copy signs which incorporate in any manner any
rolling, flashing, pulsating, rotating, beacons, or moving lights.
      H.   Any sign nailed, fastened, or affixed to any tree.
      I.   Any sign that otherwise violates this Sign Code.
      J.   Any sign displaying any obscene matter, as that term is defined by
Chapter 728 of the Code of Iowa.
   4.   Buffer Yards. No sign other than on-premises directional signs shall be
placed within any buffer yard required by
Chapter 173, except buffer yards adjacent to intervening major streets.
   5.   Vision-Clearance Triangle. No sign may project into or be placed within
a vision-clearance area.
   6.   Removal of Signs. If a sign owner’s business, profession, commodity,
service, or other activity or use formerly occupying the site is discontinued,
the sign must be removed within 15 days of closure. If the owner does not
remove the sign, the City will remove it at the owner’s expense.
175.05   BASIC DESIGN ELEMENTS FOR ON-PREMISES SIGNS.
   1.   Professional Design and Construction. All signs must be designed and
constructed by an individual or company pre-approved by the City and familiar
with the City’s Sign Code. The proposed individual or company shall be
designated on the applicant’s Sign Permit and approved by the City in advance
of sign construction.
   2.   Wall Signs and Graphics. Wall signs and graphics are subject to the
following general regulations.
      A.   A wall sign shall not extend more than 12 inches from the wall to
which it is attached.
      B.   A wall sign must be parallel to the wall to which it is attached.
      C.   A wall sign may not extend beyond the corner of the wall to which it
is attached, except where attached to another wall sign, it may extend to
provide for the attachment.
      D.   A wall sign may not extend beyond its building’s roofline.
      E.   A wall sign attached to a building on its front property line may
encroach upon public right-of-way by no more than 12 inches. Such a wall sign
shall provide a minimum clearance of eight feet, six inches.
      F.   For the purpose of calculating permitted sign areas pursuant to this
chapter, signs painted on the walls of buildings shall be considered wall
signs.
      G.   Where allowable sign areas are determined b a building’s frontage,
the allowable sign area shall not be transferrable to other building frontages.
      H.   Where permitted, canopy signs are counted as wall signs when
calculating the total permitted sign area.
   3.   Projecting Signs and Graphics. Projecting signs and graphics are
subject to the following general regulations.
      A.   The maximum projection of any projecting sign shall be three feet.
      B.   A projecting sign may be no closer than two feet from the vertical
plane of the inside curb line.
      C.   Each projecting sign must maintain at least the following vertical
clearances measured from the average ground level below the sign to the lowest
point of the sign:
         (1)   Eight feet, six inches over sidewalks, except that a canopy may
reduce its vertical clearance to seven feet, six inches.
         (2)   Fourteen feet over parking lots.
         (3)   Eighteen feet over alleys or driveways.
         (4)   Unless noted above, no projecting sign shall be placed over a
roadway.
      D.   No projecting sign extending three feet from a property line may be
located within 22 feet of any other projecting sign extending three feet from a
property line.
      E.   The support structure for projecting signs cannot be visible.
   4.   Roof Signs. Roof signs are subject to the following regulations:
      A.   Where permitted, integral roof signs may be used interchangeably
with wall signs.
      B.   Above peak roof signs are prohibited.
   5.   Detached Signs. Detached signs are subject to the following general
regulations.
      A.   Where the maximum number and area of detached signs is determined by
building frontage and if a parcel/building fronts on multiple streets, the
allowable number and size of detached signs shall not be transferrable across
building frontages.
175.06   OTHER DESIGN ELEMENTS.
   1.   Illumination. Lighting, when installed, must be positioned in such a
manner that light is not directed onto an adjoining property or onto a public
street or highway.
   2.   Marquees and Marquee Signs. Signs placed on, attached to, or
constructed on a marquee are subject to the maximum projection and clearance
regulations of projecting signs.
   3.   Banners.
      A.   A banner sign projecting from a building may not exceed the wall
height of the building.
      B.   Maximum projection for any banner is three feet with a minimum
vertical clearance of eight feet, six inches.
175.07   USE OF COMPATIBLE MATERIALS.
   All signs, excluding temporary signs, shall be constructed of materials that
are similar to those used on the principal building. Such signage shall be
dominated with materials of permanency and strength and shall be compatible
with other structures and signs in the development.
175.08   SIGN AREA.
   1.   Maximum Permitted Sign Area. Maximum permitted sign area for a premise
is set forth as a numerical limit and is the combined total of all signs on the
premise.
   2.   Sign Area.
      A.   Sign area includes the entire area within the perimeter enclosing
the extreme limits of the sign, excluding any structure essential for support
or service of the sign, or architectural elements of the building.
      B.   The area of double-faced signs is calculated on the largest face
only.
      C.   The sign area for ground signs, monument signs, and architectural
sign bands is calculated as the area enclosing the extreme limits of the copy
only.
      D.   In the case of individual letters mounted to a wall, the total area
in a simple shape such as a rectangle around the letters will be calculated.
   3.   Height. The height of a sign is measured from the average grade level
below the sign to the topmost point of the sign or sign structure.
   4.   Setback. The setback of a sign is measured from the property line to
the supporting frame, mast, pole, or base of the sign.
   5.   Building Frontage. Building frontage is measured as the linear
dimension of the building line or parallel to a public street, private way, or
court. For walls angled out of parallel to a public street, private way, or
court a projected parallel line shall be used.
175.09   PERMITTED SIGNS.
Table 175.09-01 Permitted Signs by Type and Zoning Districts
Sign Types R-1 R-2 R-3 MH CC UC LI
Table 175.09-01 Permitted Signs by Type and Zoning Districts
Sign Types      R-1 R-2 R-3 MH CC UC LI
Detached Signs
Monument        P   P   P   P  P  P  P
Ground          P   P   P   P  P  P  P
Pole            N   N   N   N  N  N  N
Attached Signs
Awning          N   N   N   P  P  P  P
Banner          N   N   N   N  P  P  P
Building Marker P   P   P   P  P  P  P
Canopy          N   N   N   N  P  P  P
Marquee         N   N   N   N  P  P  P
Projecting      N   N   N   N  P  P  P
Roof, Integral  N   N   N   N  P  N  P
Wall            P   P   P   P  P  P  P
Window          N   N   N   N  P  P  P
Miscellaneous
Portable        N   N   N   N  P  P  N
P = Permitted for All Uses; N = Not Permitted
Table 175.09-02 Auxiliary Design Elements by Zoning District
Sign Types R-1 R-2 R-3 MH CC UC LI
Table 175.09-02 Auxiliary Design Elements by Zoning District
Sign Types                 R-1 R-2 R-3 MH CC UC LI
Illumination
Indirect                   P   P   P   P  P  P  P
Direct                     N   N   N   N  N  N  N
Internal                   P   P   P   P  P  P  P
Neon                       N   N   N   N  P  P  P
Flashing                   N   N   N   N  N  N  N
Flame                      N   N   N   N  N  N  N
Other
Electronic Changeable Copy N   N   N   N  P  P  P
Moving                     N   N   N   N  N  N  N
Rotating                   N   N   N   N  N  N  N
P = Permitted for All Uses; N = Not Permitted
Table 175.09-03 Permitted Signs by Maximum Permitted Area and District
The Maximum Permitted Area for all Signs on a Premises, Excluding Exempt
Signs:
Zoning District Maximum Total Square Feet
Table 175.09-03 Permitted Signs by Maximum Permitted Area and District
The Maximum Permitted Area for all Signs on a Premises, Excluding Exempt
Signs:
Zoning District Maximum Total Square Feet
R-1, R-2        8
R-3             32
MH              48
CC, UC          N/A
LI              200
Table 175.09-04 Permitted Signs by Numbers, Dimensions, and Locations
Zoning District R-1; R-2 R-3; MH CC; UC LI
Table 175.09-04 Permitted Signs by Numbers, Dimensions, and Locations
Zoning District              R-1; R-2 R-3; MH CC; UC                        LI
Detached Signs
Number Permitted Per         1        1       N/A                           N/A
Premises
Number Permitted per         N/A      N/A     1/250 LF of building frontage N/A
Building Frontage                             (minimum of 1)
                                              Lesser of 90 sq. ft. or 1 sq.
Maximum Size* (square feet)  8        32      ft. per linear foot of        90
                                              building frontage
Maximum Height (feet) of     10       10      10                            10
Structure Above Ground
Front Yard Setback (feet)    5        5       10                            0
Side Yard Setback (feet)     10       10      5                             0
Attached Signs
Maximum Size* (square feet)  8        32      N/A                           200
Maximum Size 1 (SF/LF of 1st N/A      N/A     1/1                           N/A
floor building frontage)
Maximum Size 1 (SF/LF of 2nd N/A      N/A     1/1                           N/A
floor building frontage)
*For those uses only permitted a sufficient maximum sign area in
Table 175.09-03
Note 1 : Maximum size (square footage) of sign is determined by linear feet of
the building frontage for attached signs. This is calculated for each floor of
the building separately.
 
175.10   NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   1.   Any permanent sign that was in place and lawfully established on
December 21, 1998, shall be considered as a legal nonconforming sign to the
extent that such a sign does not comply with the provisions of this chapter.
The cover of such sign may be changed from time to time, provided that the sign
area shall not be enlarged or reduced beyond the sign area in existence on
December 21, 1998.
   2.   Any nonconforming sign which presently is or becomes structurally
damaged or deteriorated or is altered by more than 50 percent of its
replacement cost, shall be either removed or altered so as to comply with this
chapter.
CHAPTER 176
ZONING CODE - NONCONFORMING DEVELOPMENT
 
176.01 Purpose                  176.04 Nonconforming Lots
176.02 Existing Development     176.05 Nonconforming Structures
176.03 Legal Nonconforming Uses 176.06 Nonconforming Uses
 
176.01   PURPOSE.
This chapter contains the Nonconforming Development Regulations. The purposes
of these regulations are:
   1.   To allow for reasonable use of legally created lots of record which do
not meet current minimum requirements for their respective zoning districts.
   2.   To provide for reasonable use of legally constructed structures which
do not meet current site development regulations for their respective zoning
districts.
   3.   To allow for the reasonable continuation of legally established uses
which do not meet current use regulations for their respective zoning
districts.
   4.   To limit the continuation and provide for the gradual replacement of
nonconforming uses.
176.02   EXISTING DEVELOPMENT.
   Any maintenance to any structure or site feature shall not cause the site or
building to become non-compliant with the regulations set forth in this
chapter. If the site or building is already non-compliant, the change to the
building or site proposed by the owner shall not cause them to become more non-
compliant. In such instances, improvements shall be completed in a manner which
makes the building, site, or related items more substantially compliant with
the current provisions of this chapter than was previous to the improvements.
Any improvement proposed to modify the size of a building, lot, parking area,
etc. shall be submitted for review by the City. If the proposed improvements
modify the size of a building or lot by less than 30 percent, it shall be
submitted for review by City staff and approved or disapproved by the
Administrative Official. The Administrative Official shall have the authority
to require such a project be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
Council if they feel such review is warranted. If the proposed change is in
excess of 30 percent in size, it shall be submitted for full review and
approval or disapproval by the Planning and Zoning Commission and Council. See
Section 170.07 for full site plan review requirements.
176.03   LEGAL NONCONFORMING USES.
   Any site or building use permitted under a previous zoning district’s
regulation shall conform to the regulations of this chapter under the current
site and building design provisions determined to be most applicable to the
non-conforming use by the Administrative Official.
176.04   NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   1.   Pre-Existing Lots of Record. Nonconforming lots of record existing at
the time of the adoption of this Zoning Code shall be exempt, unless otherwise
provided, from the minimum lot area and lot width requirements of each zoning
district. Such lots may be developed with any use allowed by the regulations
for the district and must comply with all other site development regulations
set forth by this Zoning Code.
   2.   Reductions Due to Public Acquisition. If a portion of a legally
existing lot in any district is acquired for public use, the remainder of this
lot shall be considered a conforming lot.
176.05   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
These regulations apply to buildings and structures which were constructed
legally under regulations in effect before the effective date of this Zoning
Code.
   1.   Continuation. A lawful nonconforming structure existing on the
effective date of this Zoning Code may be continued, repaired, maintained, or
altered, subject to the provisions of this section.
   2.   Additions or Enlargements to Nonconforming Structures.
      A.   A lawful nonconforming structure may be added to or enlarged if the
addition satisfies one or more of the following conditions:
         (1)   The enlargement or addition, when considered independently of
the existing building, complies with all applicable setbacks, height, off-
street parking, and landscaping requirements.
         (2)   The nonconforming building and impervious surface coverages on
the site are not increased and the building, after the addition, conforms to
height and off-street parking regulations applicable to its zoning district.
   3.   Moving of Nonconforming Structures. A lawful nonconforming building or
structure shall not be moved, in whole or in part, to another location on its
lot unless every part of the structure conforms to all site development
regulations applicable to its zoning district.
   4.   Repair of Nonconforming Structures. A lawful nonconforming building
damaged by fire, explosion, storm, or other calamity, except flood damages, may
be repaired and reconstructed, provided there is no increase in the degree of
nonconformity. Repair and reconstruction within the designated floodplain shall
be in conformance with floodplain development regulations. Any repairs must be
completed in compliance with all applicable building codes and regulations.
   5.   Applicability of Landscaping and Screening Regulations. A pre-existing
structure, building, or development shall be exempt from
Chapter 173. However, any expansion of such structure, building, or development
or any adjacent new development onto a property that is or becomes vacant on or
after the effective date of this Zoning Code shall be subject to
Chapter 173.
   6.   Allowance for Repairs. Repairs and maintenance of a structure occupied
by a nonconforming use may be made, provided that no structural alterations are
made other than those required by law.
   7.   Damage or Destruction of Structures. Should a structure occupied by a
lawful nonconforming use be damaged to the extent that the cost of restoration
exceeds 50 percent of the replacement cost of the structure, the nonconforming
use shall no longer be permitted.
176.06   NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   Continuation of Nonconforming Uses. Any nonconforming use lawfully
existing on the effective date of this Zoning Code may continue, subject to the
limitations of this section.
   2.   Enlargement of Nonconforming Uses. A lawful nonconforming use may not
be expanded.
   3.   Abandonment of Nonconforming Use. If use becomes abandoned or unused
for a continuous period of six months, any subsequent use must conform to all
use regulations applicable to the property’s zoning district.
   4.   Change of Use. A lawful nonconforming use may be changed only to a use
type permitted in a zoning district that is equal to or less intensive than
that normally required for the previous use.
   5.   Nonconforming Uses and Conditional Use and Special Use Permits. A
lawful pre-existing use which would require a Conditional Use or Special Use
Permit in its zoning district shall be presumed to have the appropriate permit
and shall be considered a conforming use. The use shall be subject to the
regulations governing lapses or revocation of permits set forth in this
chapter.
CHAPTER 177
ZONING CODE - ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURES
 
177.01 Purpose                    177.03 Amendment Procedure
177.02 Site Plan Review Procedure 177.04 Extension of the Extra-Territorial
                                  Jurisdiction
 
177.01   PURPOSE.
   The Administration and Procedures provisions establish the methods for
implementation of site plan review, rezoning, and amendments to the Zoning
Code.
177.02   SITE PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   1.   Purpose. The Site Plan Review Procedure provides for special review in
addition to plan review required by other sections of this Code of projects
that have potentially significant effects on traffic circulation or a
significant effect on land uses in adjacent neighborhoods. The procedure
provides for the review and evaluation of site development features and
possible mitigation of unfavorable effects on surrounding property.
   2.   Administration. The Zoning Administrator shall review, evaluate, and
act on all site plans submitted pursuant to this procedure. The Planning and
Zoning Commission shall review site plans and shall transmit its recommendation
to the Council for approval.
   3.   Uses Requiring Site Plan Review. Select uses as required by
Chapter 170.
   4.   Application Requirements. An application for a site plan review may be
filed by the owner of a property or the owner’s authorized agent with the
Zoning Administrator. Site plan application forms are available in the offices
of the Zoning Administrator. The application shall include the criteria listed
in
Chapter 170.
   5.   Administrative Action. The Zoning Administrator shall review each site
plan and provide a written recommendation to the Planning and Zoning Commission
and Council. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall transmit its
recommendation to the Council, which will then act on the application.
   6.   Review and Evaluation.
      A.   The Planning and Zoning Commission and Council shall review and
approve the site plan based on the criteria established in
Chapter 170 and conformance with applicable regulations in this Zoning Code and
the vision of the comprehensive plan.
      B.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall make the following findings
before recommending approval of the site plan to the Council:
         (1)   The proposed development, together with any necessary
modifications, is compatible with the criteria established in
Chapter 170.
         (2)   Any required modifications to the site plan are reasonable and
are the minimum necessary to minimize potentially unfavorable effects.
         (3)   The site plan conforms to this Zoning Code and to the vision of
the comprehensive plan.
   7.   Modification of Site Plan. The Zoning Administrator, Planning and
Zoning Commission, and Council may require modification of a site plan as a
prerequisite for approval. Required modifications may be more restrictive than
base district regulations and may include, but are not limited to, additional
landscaping or screening; installation of erosion control measures; improvement
of access or circulation; rearrangement of structures on the site; or other
modifications deemed necessary to protect the public health, safety, welfare,
community character, property values, or aesthetics.
   8.   Term and Modification of Approval.
      A.   A site plan approval shall become void one year after the date of
approval unless the applicant receives a Building Permit and diligently carries
out development prior to the expiration of this period.
      B.   The Zoning Administrator may approve an application to modify a
previously approved site plan if they determine that the modification does not
affect findings.
      C.   The Zoning Administrator may revoke a site plan approval if said
official determines that the development is not complying with the terms and
conditions of the approval. Such revocation may be appealed to the Board of
Adjustment.
177.03   AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
The amendment procedures describe the methods by which changes may be made in
the text of this Zoning Code (text amendment) or the Official Boundaries of
Zoning Districts (rezoning).
   1.   Initiation of Amendments.
      A.   Text amendments may be initiated by the Planning and Zoning
Commission or Council.
      B.   Rezoning may be initiated by a property owner or authorized agent,
the Planning and Zoning Commission, or the Council.
   2.   Rezoning Application Requirements. An application for a rezoning may be
filed with the Zoning Administrator. The application shall include the
following information:
      A.   Name and address of the applicant.
      B.   Owner, address, and legal description of the property.
      C.   A description of the reason for the rezoning application and the
nature and operating characteristics of the proposed use.
      D.   Any graphic information, including site plans, elevations, other
drawings, or other materials determined by the Zoning Administrator to be
necessary to describe the proposed use to approving agencies.
   3.   Amendment Process.
      A.   The Planning and Zoning Commission, following not less than four
days’ notice and publication, shall hold a public hearing on each proposed text
or rezoning and shall recommend action to the Council.
      B.   The Council, after publication and public hearing, shall act on the
proposed amendment. A majority vote of those members either elected or
appointed to the Council, is required for approval. If the proposed amendment
is recommended for disapproval by the Planning and Zoning Commission, a
majority vote plus one of the Council shall be required for approval.
      C.   Protest. If a valid protest petition opposing an amendment is filed
with the Clerk by eligible property owners, a majority vote plus one of those
members either elected or appointed to the Council is required for approval. A
valid protest petition must meet the following criteria:
         (1)   Submission of the petition in the office of the Clerk within 14
days after the conclusion of the public hearing on the amendment by the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
         (2)   Notarized signatures by at least one of the following:
            a.   The owner or owners of at least 20 percent of the property
proposed for rezoning.
            b.   The owners of 20 percent of the total area, excluding public
rights-of-way and public property, within the zoning jurisdiction of the City
and within 200 feet of the proposed rezoning.
   4.   Required Notice and Publication. Prior to consideration of amending,
supplementing, changing, modifying, or repealing this Zoning Code by the
governing body, notice of public hearings shall be provided by the following
two methods, as determined by the City:
      A.   Publication. Not less than four days before the date of hearing, the
Clerk shall have published in a newspaper published at least once weekly and
having a general circulation in the City a notice of the time, place, and
subject matter of such hearing.
      B.   Notification by Mail. At least 10 days prior to the date of hearing,
the party initiating the rezoning request shall present the Clerk a certified
address list of those persons who own property within 500 feet of the subject
site. The Clerk shall mail notice of the time, place, and subject matter of the
hearing to such property owners at least 10 days prior to the date of the
hearing.
177.04   EXTENSION OF THE EXTRA-TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
Upon the automatic extension of the two-mile extra-territorial jurisdiction due
to annexation, the Council, with the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning
Commission, shall zone properties within the newly established jurisdiction
concurrent with adoption of the annexation ordinance. The zoning shall consider
the Comprehensive Development Plan of the City and the present use of the land.
CHAPTER 178
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The Comprehensive Plan for the City of Windsor Heights, adopted February 20,
2017, by Ordinance No. 16-11, and amendments thereto, contained in a
separate volume, are a part of this Code of Ordinances and are in full force
and effect. The following ordinances have been adopted amending the
Comprehensive Plan.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The Comprehensive Plan for the City of Windsor Heights, adopted February 20,
2017, by Ordinance No. 16-11, and amendments thereto, contained in a
separate volume, are a part of this Code of Ordinances and are in full force
and effect. The following ordinances have been adopted amending the
Comprehensive Plan.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED      ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
17-04         May 25, 2017
CHAPTER 179
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
 
179.01 Organization and Meetings 179.04 Powers
179.02 Meetings                  179.05 Exceptions
179.03 Appeals                   179.06 Decisions of the Board of Adjustment
 
179.01   ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS.
   The Board of Adjustment, hereafter referred to by the words “Board of
Adjustment,” is hereby continued. Such Board of Adjustment shall consist of
five members appointed by the Council. Terms shall be as provided by State
statute. The Council shall have the power to remove any member of the Board of
Adjustment for cause upon written charges and after public hearing.
179.02   MEETINGS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules and regulations in accordance with
this Zoning Code and the Code of Iowa. The meetings of the Board of Adjustment
shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as the Board
of Adjustment may determine. Such chairman, or in their absence, the acting
chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be open to the public. The Board of
Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each
member on each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact,
and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of
which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Board of Adjustment and
shall be a public record. The presence of three members shall be necessary to
constitute a quorum.
179.03   APPEALS.
   1.   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person aggrieved
or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the City affected by any
decision of the Zoning Administrator, as provided in Chapter 414 of the Code of
Iowa. Such appeal shall be taken within 20 days of the decision by filing with
the Zoning Administrator and with the Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning Administrator shall forthwith
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed is taken from.
   2.   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board of Adjustment,
after notice of appeal shall have been filed with him, that by reason of the
facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in their opinion, cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order, which may not be granted by the Board of
Adjustment, or by a court of record on application, on notice to the Zoning
Administrator and on due cause shown.
   3.   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing on
the appeal, give public notice thereof as well as due notice to the parties in
interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. At the hearing any
party may appear in person, or by agent, or by attorney. Before an appeal is
filed with the Board of Adjustment, the appellant shall pay a fee according to
the schedule of fees which is on file in the office of the Clerk and submit all
required paperwork and application.
179.04   POWERS.
The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
   1.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Administrator in the
enforcement of this chapter.
   2.   To grant a variation from the terms of this chapter; provided, however,
that all variations granted under this clause shall be in harmony with the
intent of this chapter and the applicable Section 414 of the Code of Iowa. In
granting approval or conditional approval of a variance, the Board of
Adjustment shall prepare written findings of fact that all of the conditions
below apply to the application:
      A.   Special Circumstances. Special circumstances exist relating to the
physical character of the property that are peculiar to the property and that
do not apply generally to other properties in the same zoning district. And
these circumstances are not of so general or recurrent a nature as to make it
practical to provide, in the form of an amendment to this chapter, a general
rule to cover them.
      B.   Practical Difficulties. Because of these special circumstances, the
literal application of the provisions of this chapter would, without a
variance, result in unnecessary practical difficulties for the applicant, as
distinguished from mere inconvenience.
      C.   Not Resulting from Applicant Action. The special circumstances and
either practical difficulties or hardship that are the basis for the variance
have not resulted from any act undertaken subsequent to the adoption of this
ordinance or any applicable amendment thereto, of any party with a present
interest in the property.
      D.   Reasonable Use and Return. Without the requested variance, the
property cannot yield a reasonable return, or cannot be reasonably used
consistent with the intent of the zoning district and the use of other
properties therein, but the purpose of the variance is not otherwise to
increase the return from the property or to confer special privileges not
ordinarily enjoyed by other properties in the same district.
      E.   Not Alter Local Character. The variance will not alter the essential
character of the locality or substantially impair public safety or welfare or
property values in the area.
      F.   Minimum Variance Needed. The variance approved is the minimum
required to allow reasonable use and enjoyment of the property.
   3.   In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter.
Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter and punishable under this chapter. Under no circumstances shall the
Board of Adjustment grant a variance to allow a use not permissible under the
terms of this chapter in the district involved, or any use expressly or by
implication prohibited by the terms of this chapter in said district.
   4.   No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures, or buildings in
the same district and no permitted or nonconforming use of lands, structures,
or buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for the issuance of
a variance.
179.05   EXCEPTIONS.
   1.   To permit the following exceptions to the district regulations set
forth in the chapter, provided all exceptions shall be their design,
construction, and operation adequately safeguard the health, safety, and
welfare of the occupants of adjoining and surrounding property, shall not
impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property, shall not
increase congestion in the public streets, shall not increase public danger of
fire and safely, and shall not diminish or impair established property values
in surrounding areas.
   2.   To permit erection and use of a building, or the use of premises, or
vary the height, yard, or area regulations in any location for a public service
corporation for public utility purposes, or for purposes of public
communication, which the Board of Adjustment determines is reasonably necessary
for the public convenience or welfare.
   3.   To issue special permits and decide such matters as may be required by
other sections of this chapter.
179.06   DECISIONS OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   1.   In exercising the above mentioned powers, the Board of Adjustment may,
in conformity with the provisions of law, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly,
or modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from, and
may make such order, requirement, decision, or determinations as it believes
proper, and to that end shall have all the powers of the Zoning Administrator.
The concurring vote of three of the members of the Board of Adjustment shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
Zoning Administrator or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon
which it is required to pass under this chapter. The action of the Board of
Adjustment shall not become effective until after the resolution of the Board
of Adjustment, setting forth the full reason for its decision and the vote of
each member participating therein, has been filed. Such resolution, immediately
following the Board of Adjustment’s final decision, shall be filed in the
office of the Board of Adjustment, and shall be open to public inspection.
   2.   Every variation and exception granted or denied by the Board of
Adjustment shall be supported by a written testimony or evidence submitted in
connection therewith. Any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board, or
bureau of the City, or any person or persons jointly or severally aggrieved by
any decision of the Board of Adjustment may present to a court of record a
petition, duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole
or in part, specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be
presented to the court within 30 days after the filing of the decision in the
office of the Board of Adjustment.
CHAPTER 180
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
 
180.01 Intent                          180.07 Burden of Persuasion
180.02 Conditional Use Permit Required 180.08 Board of Adjustment Action on
                                       Applications
180.03 Issuance of Conditional Use     180.09 Expiration of Permits
Permit
180.04 Application of Conditional Use  180.10 Previously Approved Permits
Permits
180.05 Notification                    180.11 Effect of Permit on Successors
                                       and Assigns
180.06 Standards for Approval          180.12 Amendments and Modifications
 
180.01   INTENT.
   Many land use activities, while not inherently inconsistent with other
permitted uses in a particular zoning district, may have significant impact on
the surrounding area. Conditional Use Permits for such uses allow special
conditions to be “attached” to the development to address those impacts. The
Conditional Use Permit process provides for flexibility in identifying the
special conditions without making the ordinance unreasonably complicated. The
objective of the Conditional Use Permit process is to encourage compatibility
of the proposed development with the environment, and with existing and future
land uses in the area.
180.02   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Those uses which require a Conditional Use Permit are listed in the
individual districts, as well as those having the discretion of the Zoning
Administrator.
180.03   ISSUANCE OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   1.   A Conditional Use Permit may be issued only after review and approval
of the submitted application, including any plans, by the Board of Adjustment.
An application and plan shall only be approved upon determination that the
development, if completed as proposed, will comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   2.   The Conditional Use Permit shall be issued in the name of the applicant
(except that applications submitted by an agent shall be issued in the name of
the principal), shall identify the property involved and the proposed use, and
shall incorporate by reference the approved application and plan. The Permit
shall contain any special conditions or requirements lawfully imposed by the
Board of Adjustment.
   3.   All development shall occur strictly in accordance with such approved
application and plan.
180.04   APPLICATION OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   1.   The applicant for a Conditional Use Permit must be a person with the
legal authority to take action in accordance with the permit. In general, this
means that applications should be made by the owners or lessees of the subject
property, or their agents, or persons who have contracted to purchase property
contingent upon their ability to acquire the necessary permits, or their
agents.
   2.   The application must be submitted on an approved form and must be
complete. An application shall be complete when it contains all the information
necessary for the Board of Adjustment to decide whether the development, if
completed as proposed, will comply with all of the requirements of this
section. Unless the Zoning Administrator informs the applicant in what way the
application is incomplete, the application shall be presumed to be complete. If
the application is deemed incomplete, the Zoning Administrator will not
schedule the hearing until all required documentation has been submitted.
   3.   Additional documents needed:
      A.   Site plan with dimensions of the proposed with dimensions of the
proposed building and land.
      B.   Property owners within 500 feet of the property in reproducible
electronic format.
      C.   A complete legal description of the property shall be provided in
reproducible electronic format.
      D.   Narrative to the Standards for Approval #1-6.
   4.   To minimize planning costs to the applicant, avoid misunderstandings or
misinterpretations, and to ensure compliance with the requirements of this
section, a pre-application conference between the applicant and the Zoning
Administrator is strongly encouraged.
180.05   NOTIFICATION.
   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing on the
appeal, give public notice thereof as well as due notice to the parties in
interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time.
180.06   STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL.
   1.   The Board of Adjustment shall review the proposed development for
conformance to the following Standards of Approval:
      A.   Compatibility. The proposed buildings or use shall be constructed,
arranged, and operated so as to be compatible with the character of the zoning
district and immediate vicinity, and not to interfere with the development and
use of adjacent property in accordance with the applicable district
regulations. The proposed development shall not be unsightly, obnoxious, or
offensive in appearance to abutting or nearby properties.
      B.   Transition. The development shall provide for a suitable transition
and, if necessary, buffer between the proposed buildings or use and surrounding
properties.
      C.   Traffic. The development shall provide for adequate ingress and
egress, with particular attention to vehicular and pedestrian safety and
convenience, traffic flow and control, and emergency access.
      D.   Parking and Loading. The development shall provide all off-street
parking and loading areas as required by this Code, and adequate service
entrances and areas. Appropriate screening shall be provided around parking and
service areas to minimize visual impacts, glare from headlights, noise, fumes,
or other detrimental impacts.
      E.   Signs and Lighting. Permitted signage shall be in accordance with
the applicable district regulations and shall be compatible with the immediate
vicinity. Exterior lighting, if provided, shall be with consideration given to
glare, traffic safety, and compatibility with property in the immediate
vicinity.
      F.   Environmental Protection. The development shall be planned and
operated in such a manner that will safeguard environmental and visual
resources. The development shall not generate excessive noise, vibration, dust,
smoke, fumes, odor, glare, groundwater pollution, or other undesirable,
hazardous, or nuisance conditions, including weeds.
   2.   The request shall be approved if the Board of Adjustment finds that the
proposed development meets all Standards of Approval.
   3.   The request shall be denied if the Board of Adjustment finds a strong
probability that any of the following exist with regards to the proposed
development:
      A.   Not adequately safeguard the health, safety, and general welfare of
persons residing or working in adjoining or surrounding property, or
      B.   Impair an adequate supply, including quality, of light and air to
surrounding property, or
      C.   Unduly increase congestion in the roads, or the hazard from fire,
flood, or similar dangers, or
      D.   Diminish or impair established property values on adjoining or
surrounding property, or
      E.   Not be in accord with the intent, purpose, and spirit of the Zoning
Code or Comprehensive Plan.
180.07   BURDEN OF PERSUASION.
   The burden of persuasion, as to whether the development, if completed as
proposed, will comply with the requirements of this and all chapter is at all
times on the applicant. The burden of presenting evidence to the Board of
Adjustment sufficient enough for it to conclude that the application does not
comply with the requirements of this section is upon the person or persons
recommending such a conclusion, unless the information presented by the
applicant warrants such a conclusion.
180.08   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT ACTION ON APPLICATIONS.
In considering whether to approve an application for a Conditional Use Permit,
the Board of Adjustment shall proceed according to the following format:
   1.   The Board of Adjustment shall establish findings of fact based upon
information contained in the application, the staff report, and information
gathered at the Board of Adjustment hearings.
   2.   The Board of Adjustment shall consider such reasonable requirements or
conditions to the permit as will ensure the development will satisfy the
requirements of this chapter. A vote may be taken on such conditions before
consideration of whether the permit should be approved or denied for any of the
reasons set forth in Subsections 3 or 4.
   3.   The Board of Adjustment shall consider whether the application complies
with all of the applicable Standards for Approval set forth in
180.06. Separate votes may be taken with respect to each criterion. If the
Board of Adjustment concludes that the application fails to meet one or more of
the criteria, the application shall be denied.
   4.   If the Board of Adjustment concludes that all such criteria have been
met, the application shall be approved unless it adopts a motion that the
application fails to meet any of the approval standard set forth in Section
180.06. Separate votes may be taken with respect to each standard. Any such
motion regarding compliance or noncompliance of the application to the
development criteria or Standards for Approval shall specify the supporting
reasons for the motion. It shall be presumed the application complies with all
criteria and standards not specifically found to be unsatisfied. Without
limiting the foregoing, the Board of Adjustment may attach to a permit,
conditions it deems necessary to protect the health, safety, and general
welfare of the public. All conditions or requirements shall be entered on the
permit.
   The Board of Adjustment shall not grant a conditional use for any home
occupation or home-based business which is otherwise prohibited under this
Zoning Code.
180.09   EXPIRATION OF PERMITS.
   1.   A Conditional Use Permit shall become void one year after its effective
date if the applicant has not carried out development or occupancy during that
period.
   2.   The Board of Adjustment may revoke a Conditional Use Permit should the
operation of the use subject to such permit violate the conditions under which
the permit was granted.
180.10   PREVIOUSLY APPROVED PERMITS.
   Any permit approved under regulations in effect before the effective date of
this Zoning Code shall be considered a valid permit, subject to the
requirements imposed at the time of its approval.
180.11   EFFECT OF PERMIT ON SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.
   A Conditional Use Permit authorizes the permit holder the use of land or
structures in a particular way and subject to certain conditions. As such, it
is transferable. However, no person, including successors or assigns of the
original permit holder, may make use of the land or structures covered under
such permit except in accordance with all terms and requirements of the permit,
so long as the permit remains in effect.
180.12   AMENDMENTS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   1.   Insignificant modifications to the approved permit are permissible upon
authorization by the Zoning Administrator. A modification is insignificant if
it has no discernible impact on neighboring properties, the general public, or
those intended to use or occupy the proposed development.
   2.   Minor modifications to the approved permit are permissible with the
approval of the Board of Adjustment. Such permission may be obtained without a
formal application, public hearing or payment of fees. A modification is minor
if it has no substantial impact on neighboring properties, the general public,
or those intended to use or occupy the proposed development.
   3.   All other requests for modifications to the approved permit will be
processed as new applications. New conditions may be imposed by the Board of
Adjustment, but the applicant retains the right to reject such new conditions
by withdrawing the request for modifications and proceeding under the terms and
conditions of the original permit.
   4.   The permit holder requesting approval of modifications shall submit a
written request, including plans as necessary, for such approval to the
Administrator, and the request shall specifically identify the modifications.
The Administrator shall determine whether the proposed modifications falls
within the categories set forth in Subsections 1, 2, and 3.
   5.   Approval of all modifications must be given in writing.
CHAPTER 181
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
 
181.01 Building Permits               181.03 Complaints Regarding Violations
181.02 Schedule of Fees, Charges, and 181.04 Penalties for Violation
Expenses
 
181.01   BUILDING PERMITS.
   1.   Administration and Enforcement. The Zoning Administrator shall
administer and enforce this Zoning Code. The Board of Adjustment may direct
other person to assist the Zoning Administrator. If the Zoning Administrator
finds that any of the provisions of this Zoning Code are being violated, said
official shall notify in writing the person responsible for such violations,
indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to
correct it. The Zoning Administrator shall order discontinuance of illegal use
of land, buildings, or structures; removal of illegal buildings or structures
or of illegal additions, alterations, or structural changes; discontinuance of
any illegal work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this
Zoning Code to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its
provisions.
   2.   Building Permits Required. Except as provided by the Building Code, no
building or other structure regulated by this Zoning Code shall be erected,
constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, moved, improved, removed, converted,
or demolished unless a separate permit for each building or structure has first
been obtained from the Building Official. No Building Permit shall be issued by
the Building Official except in conformity with the provisions of this Zoning
Code, unless they received a written order from the Board of Adjustment in the
form of an administrative review, special exception, or variance as provided by
this Zoning Code.
   3.   Application for Building Permit. All applications for Building Permits
shall include plans, if applicable, in duplicate drawn to scale, showing the
actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon; the exact sizes and
locations on the lot of buildings already existing, if any; and the location
and dimensions of the proposed building or alteration. The application shall
include such other information as lawfully may be required by the
Administrative Official, including existing or proposed building or
alterations; existing or proposed uses of the building and land; the number of
families, housekeeping units, or rental units the building is designed to
accommodate; conditions existing on the lot; and such other matters as may be
necessary to determine conformance with, and provide for the enforcement of
this Zoning Code. One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by
the Administrative Official, after said official has marked such copy either as
approved or disapproved and attested to the same by signing such copy. One copy
of the plans, similarly marked, shall be retained by the Administrative
Official.
   4.   Certificates of Zoning Compliance for New, Altered, or Nonconforming
Uses. No building or other structure regulated by this Zoning Code shall be
erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, moved, improved, removed,
converted, or demolished unless a Certificate of Zoning Compliance for each
building or structure has first been obtained from the Building Official. No
Building Permit shall be issued by the Building Official, except in conformity
with the provisions of this Zoning Code, unless said official receives a
written order from the Board of Adjustment in the form of an administrative
review, or variance as provided by this Zoning Code.
   5.   Expiration of Building Permit.
      A.   If the work described in any Building Permit has not begun within
180 days from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire; it shall
be canceled by the Administrative Official; and written notice thereof shall be
given to the persons affected.
      B.   If the work described in any Building Permit has not been
substantially completed within one year of the date of issuance thereof, said
permit shall expire and be canceled by the Zoning Administrator, and written
notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected, together with notice
that further work as described in the canceled permit shall not proceed unless
and until a new Building Permit has been obtained.
      C.   The expiration date of a Building Permit may be established for a
period longer than one year if established at the time that such permit is
issued by the City. The Zoning Administrator may, at their discretion, extend
the expiration period of the Building Permit.
   6.   Construction and Use to be As Provided in Applications, Plans, Permits,
and Certificates of Zoning Compliance. Building Permits or Certificates of
Zoning Compliance issued on the basis of plans and applications approved by the
Administrative Official authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction
set forth in such approved plans and applications, and no other use,
arrangement, or construction. Use, arrangement, or construction at variance
with that authorized shall be deemed violation of this Zoning Code, and
punishable as provided herein.
181.02   SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES, AND EXPENSES.
   The Council shall establish by resolution a schedule of fees, charges, and
expenses and a collection procedure for Building Permits, Certificates of
Zoning Compliance, site plan reviews, appeals, and other matters pertaining to
this Zoning Code. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the
Clerk and may be altered or amended only by the Council. Until all applicable
fees, charges, and expenses have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on
any application or appeal.
181.03   COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever a violation of this resolution occurs, or is allowed to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaints stating
fully the causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall record properly such complaint
immediately, investigate, and take action thereon as provided by this
resolution.
181.04   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   1.   Violation and Penalty. Violation of the provisions of this Zoning Code
or failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants or variances,
shall constitute a municipal infraction, subject to the penalties and
alternative relief authorized by this Zoning Code and Section 364.22 of the
Code of Iowa.
   2.   Restraining Order. In case any building is built, developed, altered,
or otherwise used in violation of this Zoning Code, the City Attorney, in
addition to other remedies, may institute any proper action or proceed in the
name of the City to prevent such unlawful action; to restrain, correct, or
abate such violation; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use
in or about said premises.
   3.   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, or part
thereof, any architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who
commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be
found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
   4.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
CHAPTER 182
VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION
182.01 Purpose                          182.13 Maintenance Requirements
182.02 General                          182.14 Security Requirements
182.03 Interference Prohibited          182.15 Additional Authority as to
                                        Maintenance and Security
182.04 Definitions                      182.16 Notices
182.05 Applicability                    182.17 Service of Notice
182.06 Exemptions                       182.18 Administrative Hearings
182.07 Properties in Foreclosure        182.19 Nuisances Enforced by Civil
                                        Action
182.08 Registration of Vacant Structure 182.20 Emergency Actions
182.09 Required Owner and Authorized    182.21 Renovation Agreement
Management Agent Information
182.10 Parties Responsible for          182.22 Civil Actions; Alternative
Compliance                              Relief
182.11 Registration of Vacant Structure 182.23 Right of Entry
182.12 Inspection Obligations of Owner,
Mortgagee, or Authorized Management
Agent
 
182.01   PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of the City, through the adoption of this chapter, to
establish a mechanism to protect residential and commercial neighborhoods from
becoming blighted through the lack of maintenance and security due to vacant
properties; to establish a vacant property registration program; to ensure
properties are free of exterior code violations; to prevent potential fire
hazards prior to occupation and to set forth guidelines for the maintenance of
vacant properties.
182.02   GENERAL.
   The Administrator shall maintain a database of all vacant properties in the
City, cause inspections to be made to determine the condition of dwellings,
commercial structures, mobile homes, similar dwellings, accessory structures,
and premises located within the corporate limits, and may issue notices as
provided in this chapter.
182.03   INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   Interference with, or obstruction of, the City’s lawful removal of a
violation by the City is prohibited.
182.04   DEFINITIONS.
Unless otherwise expressly stated, or the context clearly indicates a different
intention, the following terms have the following meanings and shall be so
construed wherever they appear in this chapter:
   1.   “Administrator” means the City Administrator’s designated program
administrator. The City Administrator’s designee shall be the authorized
representative for the enforcement of this chapter and for the administration
of the division.
   2.   “Accessible premise” means a property that is physically accessible
through a compromised or breached gate, fence, wall, or other barriers,
intended to provide physical security to the property, or by the absence of
such barrier.
   3.   “Accessible structure” means a structure or building that is unsecured,
compromised, or breached in such a way as to allow access to the interior space
by unauthorized persons.
   4.   “Accessory building” means a structure on the same lot, separate from,
and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
residential structure that may be used for, but is not limited to, the storage
of equipment, materials, vehicles, and other miscellaneous items of the
occupants of the primary dwelling units. Trailers, semi-trailers, tents, motor
vehicles, and component parts thereof shall not be considered accessory
buildings. A structure which might otherwise be considered an accessory
building, but which is connected to the principal residential structure by a
breezeway or other extension of the principal residential structure containing
a functional roof and floor shall, for the purposes of this chapter, lose its
status as an accessory building, become part of the principal residential
structure, and shall be subject to all restrictions applicable to a principal
residential structure.
   5.   “Authorized management” agent means a property manager, property
management or maintenance company, or similar person or entity responsible for
the maintenance of real property as agent of an owner, mortgagee, or other
responsible party, or any person appointed by the owners or mortgage holder who
has charge, care, or control of a structure or premises. Such person shall be
authorized to accept service of communications from the City.
   6.   “Easement” means that portion of land or property reserved for present
or future use by a person or agency other than the owners of the real estate.
The easement shall be permitted to be for use under, on, or above said land or
property.
   7.   “Evidence of vacancy” means any condition or circumstance that on its
own, or combined with other conditions or circumstances present, would lead a
reasonable person to believe that a property is vacant. Such conditions may
include, but not are limited to, disconnection of utility services, broken
windows or doors, overgrown or dead vegetation, including lawns, shrubbery, and
other plantings; accumulation of abandoned personal property, trash or waste;
visible lack of maintenance of any building or structure on the property;
graffiti on or other defacement of buildings or structures on the property; and
any other condition or circumstance reasonably indicating that the premise is
not occupied.
   8.   “Exterior property” means the open space on the premises and on
adjoining property under the control of the owners or authorized management
agent of such premises.
   9.   “Extermination” means the control and elimination of insects, rats, or
other pests by elimination of harborage places; by removing or making
inaccessible materials that serve as food; by poison spraying, fumigation,
trapping or by any other approved pest elimination method.
   10.   “Foreclosure” means the process, either judicial or extra-judicial,
invoked by the owner or holder of a mortgage, by which a property placed as
security for a real estate loan in which the mortgage holder is notified of a
default, the filing of a foreclosure, sold at public or private sale to satisfy
the debt of the borrower in the event of a default by the borrower under the
terms of the promissory note or mortgage.
   11.   “Garbage” means animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, or consumption of food.
   12.   “Good condition” means no obvious maintenance required with all major
components and materials still functional and contributing toward the extended
life expectancy of the structures and premises.
   13.   “Good repair” means fit for human habitation in accordance with all
health codes, everything operates as it should, the property is clean and well
maintained inside and out, and there is no wasting or neglect of the property,
and it is maintained in good condition.
   14.   “Imminent danger” means a condition which could cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   15.   “Infestation” means the presence of insects, rats, vermin, or other
pests within or contiguous to a structure or premises of insects, rodent’s
vermin or other pests.
   16.   “Improvements” means, but not be limited to, parking lots, grass,
ground covers bushes, shrubs, hedges, or similar plantings, decorative rock or
bark, or artificial turf whether shown on an approved site plan or not.
   17.   “Inoperable” or “unsafe vehicle” or “boat” means any motor vehicle,
recreational vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, or boat that meets one or more of
the following criteria:
      A.   Lacks a current registration or any component part, engine, or parts
that render it incapable of use or unsafe for its intended use;
      B.   With a missing, broken, or shattered windshield or any exposed
broken glass edges;
      C.   With a missing fender, door, hood, steering wheel, trunk top, or
trunk handle;
      D.   That has become a habitat of rats, mice, snakes, or other vermin or
insects;
      E.   That is left unattended on jacks, blocks, or elevated in any other
way which constitutes a threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
      F.   That because of its condition or method of storage constitutes a
threat to public health and safety.
   18.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber debris, waste,
used lumber or salvaged wood; dismantled or inoperable vehicles, unsafe
vehicles, machinery and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery or
appliances; iron, steel, or other old or scrap ferrous material; old discarded
glass, tin ware, plastic, or old discarded household goods or hardware; cut
brush, including dead or decaying plant material, except a contained compost
pile or orderly stacked firewood if cut in lengths less than or equal to four
feet and stored at least 18 inches above the ground surface.
   19.   “Mortgagee” means the person or entity that is the owner or holder of
a mortgage, deed of trust, or similar instrument encumbering real property as
security for a promissory note or other debt.
   20.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power and so designed,
constructed, or reconstructed as a dwelling unit to permit the vehicle to be
used as a place for human habitation by one or more persons. It may also
include any such vehicle with motive power not registered as a motor vehicle in
this State. A mobile home is factory-built housing built on a chassis. A mobile
home may not be construed to be a travel trailer or other form of recreational
vehicle. A mobile home shall be construed to remain a mobile home, subject to
all regulations pertaining thereto, whether or not wheels, axles, hitches, or
other appurtenances of mobility are removed and regardless of the nature of the
foundation provided.
   21.   “Neglect” means the lack of proper maintenance for a building,
structure, or premise.
   22.   “Owner” means, for the purposes of this chapter, any person, agent,
firm, or corporation having legal or equitable interest in the dwelling units;
or a recorded interest in the official records of the State or County as
holding title to the real estate; or otherwise having control of the real
estate or dwelling units, including, but not limited to, the guardian of the
estate of any such person, the executor or administrator of the estate of such
person who is ordered to take possession or control of the real estate by the
court.
   23.   “Person” means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, or any
other group acting as a unit.
   24.   “Pest elimination” means the control and elimination of insects,
rodents, or other pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or
making inaccessible material that serve as the food or water; or by other
approved pest elimination methods.
   25.   “Premises” means a lot, plot, or parcel of land, easement, or public
way, including any structure or mobile home thereon.
   26.   “Secure” means the closing and locking of windows, doors, gates, and
other openings of such size that may allow access to enclosed areas of the
property or to buildings and structures on the property. Walls and fences
surrounding the property, or any portion of the property, shall be maintained
in good repair. Broken windows shall be secured by replacing or repairing and
reglazing. Boarding of broken windows shall be used only as a temporary
corrective measure secured in accordance with the International Property
Maintenance Code.
   27.   “Structure” means that which is built or constructed, or a portion
thereof.
   28.   “Vacant property” means any property, including any building or
structure thereon, that is not legally occupied.
   29.   “Workmanlike manner” means repairs, maintenance work, alterations, or
installations that are a request, directly or indirectly, pursuant to the
enforcement of this chapter which shall be executed and installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions and executed in a skilled manner,
generally plumb, level, square, in line, undamaged, without marring adjacent
work, using compatible materials approved for the use, like in nature and look
to remaining material if there is a partial replacement or repair to maintain
the structure and premise in good condition.
182.05   APPLICABILITY.
   1.   This chapter shall apply to vacant properties with residential,
accessory, or commercial occupancies or improvements located thereon.
   2.   This chapter shall also apply to properties that are the subject of a
foreclosure action as set out in this chapter.
   3.   This chapter shall be considered cumulative and not superseding of, or
subject to, any other law or provision relating to the same subject but shall
rather be an additional remedy available to the City above and beyond any other
State, County, or local law or regulation.
182.06   EXEMPTIONS.
Property shall be exempt from the registration requirement of this chapter if
either of the following conditions exist.
   1.   The property is not the subject of foreclosure and is listed in the
applicable multiple listing services or other substantial competent evidence of
actively marketing and the property has remained vacant for less than 180 days
and the outward appearance is being maintained; or
   2.   The property is under construction, and the contractor has applied for
and is covered by valid building permits.
   At such time either of the qualifications for exemption ceases to exist, the
property shall be subject to the registration requirements of this chapter.
182.07   PROPERTIES IN FORECLOSURE.
   1.   Any mortgagee who holds a mortgage on real property located within the
City shall perform an inspection of the property that is the security for the
mortgage, upon default by the mortgagor, prior to the issuance of a notice of
default.
      A.   If a property is found to be vacant or shows evidence of vacancy, as
defined in this chapter, any mortgagee who holds a mortgage on the real
property shall comply with the registration requirements of this chapter,
within 10 days of the inspection.
   2.   Any mortgagee who files a foreclosure or Notice of Lis Pendens shall
comply with the registration requirements of this chapter, withing 10 days of
the filing.
   3.   Any mortgagee who holds a mortgage on real property, which is in
default and is the subject of an outstanding notice of default, Notice of Lis
Pendens, or foreclosure action as of the date of the adoption of this Code,
shall perform an inspection of the property by August 1, 2024. If the property
is found to be vacant or shows evidence of vacancy, the mortgagee shall
register the property in accordance with this chapter, within 10 days of the
inspection.
182.08   REGISTRATION OF VACANT STRUCTURE.
   Any owner of property located within the City who has vacant structures, or
within 10 days of vacating structures, shall register the property as required
by this chapter.
182.09   REQUIRED OWNER AND AUTHORIZED MANAGEMENT AGENT INFORMATION.
   1.   Owners of property subject to vacant property registration in the City
who reside in the County or any county contiguous thereto shall provide the
City Administrator’s designee a physical address, email address, tax
identification number, and telephone numbers.
   2.   Owners of property subject to vacant property registration located in
the City who reside outside the County or any contiguous county shall provide
the Administrator with their physical address, email address, tax
identification number, and telephone numbers and the name, physical addresses,
email address, tax identification number, and telephone number of an individual
over the age of 18 who shall reside in the County or any county contiguous
thereto and who shall be designated as the “authorized management agent”
responsible for maintenance of the property and for receiving notice and
service of process.
   3.   The name of insurance carrier, agent, and contact information.
   4.   The owners of the property shall be required to update the registration
information anytime a change in information is made, including, but not limited
to, mailing address, physical address, email information, change in authorized
management agent, or sale of the property.
182.10   PARTIES RESPONSIBLE FOR COMPLIANCE.
   1.   The property owner or authorized management agent, as defined in this
chapter, shall comply with all provisions of this chapter, including, but not
limited to, maintenance of real property for which they are responsible in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and in accordance with all
other applicable provisions of the City Code.
   2.   In all instances, the responsibility of a mortgagee to comply with this
chapter shall be and remain in effect from the date that the mortgagee gives
the owner notice of a default under the terms of the mortgage, or files a
Notice of Lis Pendens, whichever first occurs, until such time as the subject
property is sold or transferred to a new owner or the original owner is put
back in possession of the property.
182.11   REGISTRATION OF VACANT STRUCTURE.
   For so long as the property remains vacant, or subject to a Notice of Lis
Pendens or a foreclosure action, a registration fee shall be due from the owner
or authorized management agent, as applicable under the circumstances, each
year not later than the fifteenth day of the month following the month in which
the original registration was made. The annual registration fee shall be set
out in the schedule of fees adopted by the Council for each year it remains
registered.
182.12   INSPECTION OBLIGATIONS OF OWNER, MORTGAGEE, OR AUTHORIZED MANAGEMENT
AGENT.
   1.   A property owner or authorized management agent accepting appointment
as the agent of the owner, or the mortgagee shall inspect the property not less
than monthly to ensure that the property is in compliance with this chapter.
   2.   If inspection reveals noncompliance:
      A.   The owner or authorized management agent shall immediately give
written notice of the noncompliance to the party responsible for repairs, if
not themselves, and
      B.   Provide the information in writing to the Administrator, and
      C.   The owner, authorized management agent, or mortgagee, shall have 10
business days to begin the action necessary to bring the property into
compliance, and not more than 30 days to complete such action.
   3.   The Administrator shall cause the property to be inspected to determine
if the violation has been abated and the inspection fees shall be billed to the
owner in the amount set out in the schedule of fees adopted by the Council.
182.13   MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
All exterior features must be maintained in good repair and in sound condition.
Additionally, structures must be resistant to water, rodents, and deterioration
from weather. Repairs must be made with materials that match the existing
structure.
   1.   Structure must include an exterior roof in good repair, including any
shingles, sheathing, rafters, soffits, and fascia.
   2.   Structure must have a fascia, soffit (in the area around the roof
eaves) and soffit screens.
   3.   Gable vents or vent opening must be properly screened to prevent access
by animals and other pests.
   4.   Exterior walls must be capable of supporting a normal load.
   5.   Exterior walls and other surfaces of any structure must be maintained
to resist water and deterioration from weather by application of paint or other
protective materials.
   6.   Outermost layer of paint shall not peel or deteriorate to expose
underlying layers of paint to the weather.
   7.   Window glass must be maintained in a weathertight and watertight
condition.
   8.   Window screens must be in good repair capable of providing ventilation.
   9.   Exterior doors must be weathertight, watertight, in addition to being
secure in a position by a locking device in proper working order.
   10.   Porch of any structure must be safe to use, capable of supporting a
normal load, be weathertight, watertight, rodent-proof, insect-proof.
   11.   Crawl space openings of a foundation wall must be secured against
animals and rodents with screen repairs completed in a workmanlike manner
according to standards acceptable in the construction industry.
   12.   Exterior stairs must be capable of supporting the normal load.
   13.   Handrails must be constructed and maintained to conform to the
Building Code.
   14.   Railings are required for any unenclosed portion of a structure more
than three feet above ground level or for any steps containing four or more
risers.
   15.   All railings must be capable of supporting normal load.
   16.   Accessory structure including garages, storage buildings, buffer
walls, fences, etc., must be maintained in good repair and sound structural
condition.
   17.   Windows, doors, and other openings must be in good condition and
locked.
   18.   Required landscaping must be maintained to be in compliance with any
approved site plan.
   19.   The property shall be mowed, kept clear of weeds, volunteer trees, and
kept clear of snow as required by this Code.
   20.   Parking areas, driveways, and sidewalks shall be kept in good
condition as required in this Code.
   21.   The premise shall be kept clear of junk, debris, garbage, graffiti,
inoperable, and unlicensed vehicles.
   22.   The premise shall be kept free of all infestations.
   23.   Pools and spas shall be maintained so the water remains free and clear
of pollutants and debris. Pools and spas shall comply with the enclosure
requirements of the City Code.
   24.   All fire suppression systems must be functioning as intended.
   25.   Other features of the site not specifically listed in this section
that, when in poor state of repair, constitute a threat to the public safety or
preclude the reasonable enjoyment of adjacent properties.
   26.   Fallen branches must be removed from the property within 72 hours and
dead or diseased trees removed within two weeks of any City notice being
provided.
182.14   SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   The owner or authorized management agent shall secure properties
subject to this chapter, so they are not accessible to unauthorized persons.
   2.   Should the City find the structure open and unsecured, the property
will be immediately boarded as an emergency with no prior notice.
   3.   Broken or boarded windows shall be secured with glass by replacement or
repair and reglazing.
   4.   Boarded up, broken doors or other entry points shall be repaired in a
workmanlike manner.
182.15   ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY AS TO MAINTENANCE AND SECURITY.
   The Administrator or their designee shall have authority to require the
owner, mortgagee, and property authorized management agent to implement
additional maintenance and security measures as may be reasonably required to
prevent further decline of the property.
182.16   NOTICES.
   1.   Notice to abate a violation shall be given prior to City action to
abate a violation, except, that in the event of an emergency, such notice as is
practical under the circumstances, if any is practical, shall be given;
provided, however, that nothing herein shall require notice in an emergency, if
impractical. If notice to abate a nuisance is given pursuant to this chapter,
said notice shall contain the following information:
      A.   A description, to the extent possible, of the conditions that
constitute the violation;
      B.   A description of the location of the violation;
      C.   A statement that the person liable for the presence of the violation
must correct the violation within the reasonable time set forth in the notice
and in accordance with this chapter; and
      D.   A statement that upon failure to comply with this chapter within the
time set forth in the notice, the person so notified of the violation shall be
deemed liable for the nuisance, and that the City may enter onto the real
property and cause the conditions which constitute the nuisance to be abated
and assess the costs of abatement against the real property for collection in
the same manner as a property tax, following administrative hearing process, if
a hearing is requested, or court action as applicable.
      E.   If the department elects to follow the administrative hearing
procedure set forth in this Code, the notice shall also contain a statement
that the person notified, or the person’s duly authorized agent as identified
in a notarized statement provided by the person notified, may file a written
request for an administrative hearing as set forth in Section
182.18.
      F.   Notice of costs of abatement shall be given prior to City assessment
of such costs. If notice of costs of abatement is given following
administrative hearing procedure or emergency action pursuant to this chapter,
said notice shall contain the following information:
      G.   A statement that upon failure to make full payment as directed in
the notice within the time set forth in the notice, the City may assess the
costs of abatement against the real property for collection in the same manner
as a property tax, following administrative hearing, if requested.
      H.   A statement that the person notified, or the person’s duly
authorized agent as identified in a notarized statement provided by the person
notified, may file a written request for an administrative hearing on costs of
abatement only, as set forth in Section
182.18.
182.17   SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Notices given pursuant to this chapter shall be served by certified mail and
regular mail, postage prepaid, to all persons deemed responsible for the
violation, and to all other parties required by law or by departmental policy
or procedure to receive such notices, at their last known mailing addresses as
shown by the records of the County Auditor, and if deemed appropriate by the
Department Director, or their designee, at their last known mailing addresses
as shown by any other available public record. In addition to and concurrently
with mailing, notice may be delivered by a peace officer, process server, or
any other method deemed appropriate. Failed attempts to locate the person
responsible for the violation shall be documented by the department.
182.18   ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.
   1.   Recipients of notices pursuant to this chapter for which the department
elects to follow the administrative hearing procedure, as stated in the notice,
may request an administrative hearing as follows:
      A.   Requests shall be made in writing, and either hand-delivered to the
Clerk no later than seven calendar days from the date of the notice or sent to
the Clerk via regular mail postmarked by official U.S. postal service
cancellation and not by postage meter no later than seven calendar days from
the date of the notice.
      B.   Each request for hearing shall contain the name, address, electronic
mail (e-mail) address, and daytime telephone number of any person requesting a
hearing and of any attorney or agent duly authorized by the person who has
received the notice to represent them at the hearing.
      C.   Each request for hearing shall set out the requester’s basis for the
appeal.
      D.   Failure to request a hearing within seven calendar days from the
date of the notice shall be deemed a waiver of the right to contest the
validity of the determination of nuisance or determination of costs stated in
the notice, as applicable. The information set forth in the notice will be
deemed to be valid and abatement or assessment of abatement costs will proceed
as indicated in the notice.
   2.   All administrative hearings requested in compliance with this section
shall proceed as follows:
      A.   Shall be scheduled by the Clerk to occur as soon as practical
following the date of the notice.
      B.   Shall be held before the City Administrator and be conducted
informally. The department and the person in receipt of the notice may be
represented by counsel or duly authorized agent, and examine witnesses, and
present evidence.
      C.   The person requesting the hearing shall be notified in writing by
regular mail or by electronic mail (e-mail), or by phone of the date and time
for the hearing at least three business days in advance thereof.
      D.   For hearings following notice to abate a nuisance, the City
Administrator shall either find that a nuisance exists, or void or reverse the
notice. If the hearing officer finds that a nuisance exists and evidence of
plans for abatement are presented at the hearing by the recipient of the
notice, the hearing officer may grant additional reasonable time for the
abatement of the nuisance by the recipient of the notice prior to City
abatement of the nuisance.
      E.   For hearings following notice of costs of abatement, the City
Administrator shall either uphold the amount billed, reduce the amount billed,
or waive the costs, and shall not determine any other issue relating to the
nuisance abatement including, but not limited to, any issue that may have been
raised at a hearing following notice to abate a nuisance. Any costs not waived
by the City Administrator may be assessed against the real property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
      F.   If an owner or their representative fails to appear at the hearing,
they shall be considered in default and the requested relief shall not be
granted.
   3.   The determination of the City Administrator shall be in writing,
including findings of fact, and is the final administrative decision of the
City.
      A.   Any party aggrieved by the determination of the hearing officer
pursuant to this chapter may challenge whether the officer exceeded proper
jurisdiction or otherwise acted illegally by commencing a certiorari action in
the district court for the County. The petition to initiate a certiorari action
must be filed within 30 days after the entry of the final determination unless
an extension of time is allowed by the reviewing court pursuant to Division XIV
of the Iowa Rules of Civil Procedure. The City Administrator is hereby
authorized to initiate a certiorari on behalf of the City when the City
Administrator, in consultation with the City Attorney, deems it necessary and
appropriate.
      B.   The filing of an action in the district court challenging the
determination of the City Administrator does not automatically stop the City
from taking action pursuant to such determination. Unless the City has been
served with an order from the district court directing otherwise, the City may
proceed with enforcement of a determination.
   4.   Request for an administrative hearing does not stay an action by the
City for alternative relief as allowed by law.
182.19   NUISANCES ENFORCED BY CIVIL ACTION.
   Notices pursuant to this chapter for which the department elects to proceed
by civil action shall be served in the manner set forth in Section
182.17 and shall contain all information set forth in Section
182.16 as well as a statement that the City may file a civil action and seek a
court order relating to the existence, abatement, and recovery of abatement
costs of the nuisance.
182.20   EMERGENCY ACTIONS.
   If the department determines that a nuisance exists which constitutes an
emergency requiring immediate abatement, the City may perform any emergency
action necessary to abate the nuisance without prior notice or abatement
hearing.
182.21   RENOVATION AGREEMENT.
   1.   Any maintenance items which cannot be completed within the noticed
timeframe because of weather constraints or extraordinary circumstances not of
the owners or authorized management agents making them may request an extension
of time.
   2.   An owner or authorized management agent may make a request, accompanied
by the fee set forth in the Schedule of Fees adopted by the Council by
resolution, for an extension that is specific to the structure or premise and
must show that:
      A.   Strict compliance with this chapter is impractical; and
      B.   The extension does not violate the intent and purpose of the
Municipal Code; and
      C.   At the Administrator’s discretion, proof of financial ability to
complete the repairs may be requested and must be provided by the owners or
authorized management agent prior to approval.
   3.   Extensions of time will be entered into by the owner or authorized
management agent and the Administrator through an executed renovation
agreement.
   4.   Upon execution of a renovation agreement, a temporary rental license
will be issued which will expire upon the date set for completion of the
repairs as set out in the agreement.
   5.   An owner or authorized management agent may appeal a denial of an
extension pursuant to Section
182.18.
182.22   CIVIL ACTIONS; ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
   1.   Any person who fails to perform an act required by this chapter or who
commits an act prohibited by this chapter shall be guilty of a municipal
infraction punishable by a civil penalty as provided by
Chapter 3.
   2.   Proceeding with an administrative hearing, civil action, or emergency
action as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the City from seeking
alternative relief from a court in the same action or as a separate action,
including, but not limited to, an order for abatement, injunctive relief, or
authorization to make repairs.
   3.   In addition to other remedies set forth in this chapter, when it is
determined by the Administrator that a nuisance exists or that a person is a
habitual violator, the City may file a civil action in the district court
seeking an order enjoining the person from further violation of this chapter on
real property owned or controlled by such person or real property where such
person acts as an agent, tenant, or lessee of any residential dwelling,
commercial establishment, or real property within the City. The City may
further request that upon entry of the injunction; the court allow the City to
abate further violations without notice or seek an order of contempt.
182.23   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Administrator is authorized to enter at reasonable times onto and into
open unobstructed property and structures to inspect, and a property owner or
occupant is required to allow such inspection. If entry onto real estate for
the purposes described in this chapter is refused, the Administrator may pursue
a municipal infraction or obtain an administrative search warrant as provided
by law to gain entry onto the real estate for the purpose of inspection or
otherwise as provided by law.
CHAPTER 185
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
 
185.01 Definitions                       185.08 General Floodplain (Overlay)
                                         District (GF)
185.02 Statutory Authority, Findings of  185.09 Reserved
Fact, and Purpose
185.03 General Provisions                185.10 Appointment and Duties of Board
                                         of Appeals
185.04 Administration                    185.11 Nonconforming Uses
185.05 Establishment of Zoning (Overlay) 185.12 Penalties for Violation
Districts
185.06 Floodway (Overlay) District (FW)  185.13 Amendments
185.07 Floodway Fringe (Overlay)
District (FF)
 
185.01   DEFINITIONS.
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   1.   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same parcel
of the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   2.   “Base flood” means the flood having one (1) percent chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. (Also commonly referred to as the “100-
year flood.”)
   3.   “Base Flood Elevation” (BFE) means the elevation floodwaters would
reach at a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
   4.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or
lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see “lowest
floor.”
   5.   “Board of Appeals” means the Board of Adjustment.
   6.   “Development” means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including (but not limited to) buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations or storage
of equipment or materials. Development does not include minor projects or
routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities, as defined in this
section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling or grading.
   7.   “Enclosed area below lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest
enclosed area in a building when all the following criteria are met:
      A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic
pressure during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions
of Section
185.07(2)(D)(1); and
      B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking, or
storage; and
      C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one (1)
foot above the Base Flood Elevation; and
      D.   The enclosed area is not a basement as defined in this section.
   8.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the start of
construction commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
   9.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
   10.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means
the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   11.   “Factory-built home” means any structure, designed for residential use
which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed, or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site. For the purpose of this chapter, factory-built homes include
mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes; and also include
recreational vehicles which are placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
   12.   “Factory-built home park or subdivision” means a parcel or contiguous
parcels of land divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or
lease.
   13.   “Five hundred (500) year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of which
has a two-tenths (0.2) percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year or which, on average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every five
hundred (500) years.
   14.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
   15.   “Flood Insurance Rate Map” (FIRM) means the official map prepared as
part of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which
delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community.
   16.   “Flood Insurance Study” (FIS) means a report published by FEMA for a
community issued along with the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map(s). The
study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water
surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
   17.   “Floodplain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water as a result of a flood.
   18.   “Floodplain management” means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
floodplains, including (but not limited to) emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, floodproofing and floodplain management regulations.
   19.   “Floodproofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
   20.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions
of the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to
carry and discharge floodwaters or flood flows so that confinement of flood
flows to the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one (1) foot.
   21.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the Special Flood Hazard
Area outside the floodway.
   22.   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   23.   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
      A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the National Register.
      B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district.
      C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior.
      D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by
either:
         (1)   An approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or
         (2)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   24.   “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a
building including a basement except when the criteria listed in the definition
of Enclosed Area Below Lowest Floor are met.
   25.   “Maximum damage potential development” means hospitals and like
institutions; buildings or building complexes containing documents, data, or
instruments of great public value; buildings or building complexes containing
materials dangerous to the public or fuel storage facilities; emergency
response facilities, power installations needed in emergency or other buildings
or building complexes similar in nature or use.
   26.   “Minor projects” means small development activities (except for
filling, grading, and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
   27.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks) means
those structures or development for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations
adopted by the community.
   28.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after
the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by
the community.
   29.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
      A.   Built on a single chassis;
      B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
      D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   30.   “Repetitive loss” means a structure covered by an NFIP flood insurance
policy that has incurred flood-related damages on two occasions during a 10-
year period on the date of the event for which a second claim is made, in which
the cost of repairing the flood damage, on average, equaled or exceed 25% of
the market value of the structure at the time of each such flood event.
   31.   “Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” means
repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do
not trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:  
      A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing
roofing tiles, and replacing siding.
      B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting,
cabinets, counter tops, and similar finish work.
      C.   Basement sealing.
      D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes.
      E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating, or air
conditioning systems, and repairing wells or septic systems.
   32.   “Special Flood Hazard Area” (SFHA) means the land within a community
subject to the base flood. This land is identified on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, and/or A99.
   33.   “Start of construction” includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   34.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including (but not limited to) buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities,
and/or other similar uses.
   35.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage
condition would equal or exceed fifty (50) percent of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials
shall be included in the estimated cost of repair. Substantial damage also
means flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two separate occasions
during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of such flood
event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25 percent of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials
shall be included in the estimated cost of repair.
   36.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
      A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure taking
place during a 10-year period, the cumulative cost of which, equals or exceeds
fifty (50) percent of the market value of the structure either:
         (1)   Before the start of construction of the first improvement of the
structure; or
         (2)   If the structure has been substantially damaged and is being
restored, before the damage occurred.
   The term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a
structure to correct existing violations of State or local health, sanitary, or
safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions. The term also does not include any alteration of a historic
structure, provided the alteration will not preclude the structure’s
designation as a historic structure.
      B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building
by 25 percent or more. All additions constructed after the effective date of
the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community shall be
added to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in
original floor space would exceed 25 percent.
   37.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of
the floodplain management regulations.
   38.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to
be fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
185.02   STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT, AND PURPOSE.
   1.   The Legislature of the State of Iowa has in Chapter 414 of the Code of
Iowa, as amended, delegated the power to cities to enact zoning regulations to
secure safety from flood and to promote health and the general welfare.
   2.   Findings of Fact.
      A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic
inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of
the community.
      B.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused
by:
         (1)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood
damages which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately
elevated or otherwise protected from flooding; and
         (2)   The cumulative effect of obstructions on the floodplain causing
increases in flood heights and velocities.
      C.   This chapter relies upon engineering methodology for analyzing flood
hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the Department of
Natural Resources.
   3.   Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges, and property of the City and its residents and
to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and comfort and
convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses described in
Section
185.02(2)(A) with provisions designed to:
      A.   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood flows
so that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
      B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
      C.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
      D.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
      E.   Ensure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
185.03   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   Lands to Which Chapter Applies. The provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City shown on the Official
Floodplain Zoning Map as being within the boundaries of the Floodway, Floodway
Fringe, General Floodplain, and Shallow Flooding (Overlay) Districts, as
established in Section
185.05.
   2.   Establishment of Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The Flood Insurance
Rate Maps (FIRM) for Polk County and Incorporated Areas, City of Windsor
Heights, Panels 19153C0326F, 19153C0327F, and 19153C0329F dated February 1,
2019, which were prepared as part of the Flood Insurance Study for Polk County
are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be the Official Floodplain
Zoning Map. The flood profiles and all explanatory material contained with the
Flood Insurance Study are also declared to be a part of this chapter.
   3.   Rules for Interpretation of District Boundaries. The boundaries of the
zoning district areas shall be determined by scaling distances on the Official
Floodplain Zoning Map. When an interpretation is needed as to the exact
location of a boundary, the Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   4.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used, and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted, or structurally altered,
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   5.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provision of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with
this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   6.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
   7.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The standards required by this
chapter are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This chapter does
not imply that areas outside the designated Floodplain (Overlay) District areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the City, or any officer or employee thereof, for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
   8.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
185.04   ADMINISTRATION.
   1.   Appointment, Duties, and Responsibilities of Administrator.
      A.   The Building Official is hereby appointed to implement and
administer the provisions of this chapter and will herein be referred to as the
Administrator.
      B.   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator shall include (but
not necessarily be limited to) the following:
         (1)   Review all Floodplain Development Permit Applications to ensure
that the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
         (2)   Review Floodplain Development Applications to ensure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for floodplain construction.
         (3)   Record and maintain a record of:
            a.   The elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum
1988) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures; or
            b.   The elevation to which new or substantially improved
structures have been floodproofed.
         (4)   Notify adjacent communities, counties, and the Department of
Natural Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a
watercourse and submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
         (5)   Keep a record of all permits, appeals, and such other
transactions and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this
chapter.
         (6)   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator.
         (7)   Notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of any annexations or
modifications to the community’s boundaries.
         (8)   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are
consistent with the purpose of this chapter and advise the Board of Appeals of
potential conflict.
         (9)   Maintain the accuracy of the community’s Flood Insurance Rate
Maps when:
            a.   Development placed within the Floodway (Overlay) District
results in any of the following:
               i.   An increase in the Base Flood Elevations; or
               ii.   Alteration to the floodway boundary.
            b.   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that does not
include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one (1) foot
in the base elevation; or
            c.   Development relocates or alters the channel.
Within six (6) months of the completion of the development, the applicant shall
submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for a Letter of Map
Revision.
         (10)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the
standards of this chapter.
         (11)   Forward all requests for Variances to the Board of Appeals for
consideration. Ensure all requests include the information ordinarily submitted
with applications as well as any additional information deemed necessary to the
Board of Appeals
   2.   Floodplain Development Permit.
      A.   Permit Required. A Floodplain Development Permit issued by the
Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any manmade
change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not limited to
buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, storage of
materials or equipment, excavation, or drilling operations), including the
placement of factory-built homes.
      B.   Application for Permit. Application shall be made on forms furnished
by the Administrator and shall include the following:
         (1)   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
         (2)   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(i.e., lot, block, track, street address, or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done.
         (3)   Location and dimensions of all structures and additions.
         (4)   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work
is intended.
         (5)   Elevation of the base flood.
         (6)   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) of
the lowest floor (including basement) of structures or of the level to which a
structure is to be floodproofed.
         (7)   For structures being improved or rebuilt, a detailed cost
estimate of proposed improvements and the market value of the structure prior
to the improvements. The detailed cost estimate shall include the true cost of
both labor and materials.
         (8)   Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this chapter.
      C.   Action on Permit Application. The Administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall approve or
disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed,
in writing, of the specific reasons therefore. The Administrator shall not
issue permits for Variances except as directed by the Board of Appeals
      D.   Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and Plans.
Floodplain Development Permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement, or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at Variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the State, that the finished fill, structure
floor elevations, floodproofing, or other flood protection measures were
accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the
use or occupancy of any structure.
185.05   ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING (OVERLAY) DISTRICTS.
The floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter are hereby divided
into the following districts:
   1.   Floodway (Overlay) District (FW) – those areas identified as Floodway
on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
   2.   Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District (FF) – those areas identified as
Zone AE on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map but excluding those areas
identified as Floodway.
   3.   General Floodplain (Overlay) District (GF) – those areas identified as
Zone A on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
   The boundaries shall be as shown on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
Within these districts, all uses not allowed as permitted uses are prohibited
unless a Variance to the terms of this chapter is granted after due
consideration by the Board of Appeals.
185.06   FLOODWAY (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (FW).
   1.   Permitted Uses. All development within the Floodway District shall be
permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance (or
underlying zoning district) and provided they meet applicable performance
standards of the Floodway District.
   2.   Performance Standards. All Floodway District uses allowed as a
permitted use shall meet the following standards.
      A.   No development shall be permitted in the Floodway District that
would result in any increase in the Base Flood Elevation. Consideration of the
effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the assumption
that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly situated
lands.
      B.   All development within the Floodway District shall:
         (1)   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
         (2)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
         (3)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.
      C.   No development shall affect the capacity or conveyance of the
channel or floodway of any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch, or any
other drainage facility or system.
      D.   Structures, buildings, recreational vehicles, and sanitary and
utility systems, if permitted, shall meet the applicable performance standards
of the Floodway Fringe District, and shall be constructed or aligned to present
the minimum possible resistance to flood flows.
      E.   Structures, if permitted, shall have a low flood damage potential
and shall not be for human habitation.
      F.   Storage of materials or equipment that are buoyant, flammable,
explosive, or injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited. Storage
of other material may be allowed if readily removable from the Floodway
District within the time available after flood warning.
      G.   Watercourse alterations or relocations (channel changes and
modifications) must be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within
the altered or relocated portion. In addition, such alterations or relocations
must be approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
      H.   Any fill allowed in the floodway must be shown to have some
beneficial purpose and shall be limited to the minimum amount necessary.
      I.   Pipeline river or stream crossings shall be buried in the streambed
and banks or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture due to channel
degradation and meandering or due to the action of flood flows.
185.07   FLOODWAY FRINGE (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (FF).
   1.   Permitted Uses. All development within the Floodway Fringe District
shall be permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other
ordinance (or underlying zoning district) and provided they meet applicable
performance standards of the Floodway Fringe District.
   2.   Performance Standards. All development must be consistent with the need
to minimize flood damage and meet the following applicable performance
standards. Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no development may
increase the Base Flood Elevation more than one (1) foot. The applicant will be
responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient
technical information to make such determination.
      A.   All Development. All development shall:
         (1)   Be designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement.
         (2)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
         (3)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.
      B.   Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the Base Flood Elevation. Construction
shall be upon compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one
(1) foot above the Base Flood Elevation and extend at such elevation at least
eighteen (18) feet beyond the limits of any structure erected thereon.
Alternate methods of elevating (such as piers or extended foundations) may be
allowed subject to favorable consideration by the Board of Appeals, where
existing topography, street grades, or other factors preclude elevating by
fill. In such cases, the methods used must be adequate to support the structure
as well as withstand the various forces and hazards associated with flooding.
All new residential structures located in areas that would become isolated due
to flooding of surrounding ground shall be provided with a means of access that
will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the base flood.
      C.   Nonresidential Structures. All new or substantially improved
nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the Base Flood Elevation, or together
with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a level.
When floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State
shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are adequate to withstand the
flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact, and uplift forces and other
factors associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below the Base
Flood Elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator.
      D.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
         (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
            a.   A minimum of two (2) openings, with positioning on at least
two (2) walls, having a total net area of not less than one (1) square inch for
every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.
            b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1)
foot above grade.
            c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
      Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access,
and low damage potential storage. Where the distance between the floor and
ceiling of the fully enclosed area below the lowest floor is five (5) feet or
more, the applicant shall be required to sign and record with the County
Recorder a Non-Conversion Agreement that ensures the lower enclosed area
remains compliant with the criteria outlined in this Section
185.07(2)(D)(1).
         (2)   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
         (3)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed
with electric meter, electrical service panel box, hot water heater, heating,
air conditioning, ventilation equipment (including ductwork), and other similar
machinery and equipment elevated (or, in the case of nonresidential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one (1) foot above the Base Flood
Elevation.
         (4)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed
with plumbing, gas lines, water meters, gas meters, and other similar service
utilities either elevated (or in the case of nonresidential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one (1) foot above the Base Flood
Elevation or designed to be watertight and withstand inundation to such a
level.
      E.   Factory-Built Homes.
         (1)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes,
including those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions,
shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
structure is a minimum of one (1) foot above the Base Flood Elevation.
         (2)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes,
including those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions,
shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Anchorage
systems may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties
to ground anchors as required by the State Building Code.
      F.   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
         (1)   On-site wastewater disposal and water supply systems shall be
located or designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the
system during flooding.
         (2)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system
as well as the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment
facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood
protection equal to or greater than one (1) foot above the Base Flood
Elevation.
         (3)   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water
supply treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with
a level of protection equal to or greater than one (1) foot above the Base
Flood Elevation.
         (4)   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
      G.   Storage of Materials and Equipment. Storage of materials and
equipment that are flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the
Base Flood Elevation. Other material and equipment must either be similarly
elevated or:
         (1)   Not be subject to major flood damage and anchored to prevent
movement due to flood waters; or
         (2)   Be readily removable from the area within the time available
after flood warning.
      H.   Flood Control Structural Works. Flood control structural works such
as levees, flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from the
base flood with a minimum of three (3) feet of design freeboard and shall
provide for adequate interior drainage. In addition, the Department of Natural
Resources shall approve structural flood control works.
      I.   Watercourse Alterations. Watercourse alterations or relocations must
be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources must
approve such alterations or relocations.
      J.   Subdivisions. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five (5) acres or fifty
(50) lots (whichever is less) shall include Base Flood Elevation data for those
areas located within the Floodplain Fringe (Overlay) District.
      K.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses.
         (1)   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures that are
incidental to a residential use are exempt from the Base Flood Elevation
requirements where the following criteria are satisfied:
            a.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential. Its size shall not exceed six hundred (600) square feet in size.
Those portions of the structure located less than one (1) foot above the Base
Flood Elevation must be constructed of flood-resistant materials.
            b.   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage
potential purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure
shall not be used for human habitation.
            c.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
            d.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement which may result in damage to other structures.
            e.   The structure’s service facilities such as electrical and
heating equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one (1) foot
above the Base Flood Elevation.
            f.   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Section
185.07(2)(D)(1).
         (2)   Exemption from the Base Flood Elevation requirements for such a
structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of
the structure and its contents.
      L.   Recreational Vehicles and Campgrounds.
         (1)   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of
Section
185.07(2)(E) regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes when the
following criteria are satisfied.
            a.   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less
than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days, and
            b.   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
         (2)   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than
one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must
satisfy requirements of Section
185.07(2)(E) regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes.
         (3)   Any campground with overnight lodging shall have an evacuation
plan that includes the following:
            a.   Responsible parties for carrying out the evacuation plan.
            b.   Action stages that are based on stream levels, gage data, or
weather forecasts, as appropriate.
            c.   A detailed list of actions that need to be taken to ensure all
vehicles and campers are evacuated, including how notifications are to be
delivered.
      M.   Pipeline Crossings. Pipeline crossings rivers and streams shall be
buried in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to
prevent rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.
      N.   Maximum Damage Potential Development. All new or substantially
improved maximum damage potential development shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the elevation of
the five hundred (500)-year flood, or together with attendant utility and
sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a level. When floodproofing is
utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State shall certify that
the floodproofing methods used are adequate to withstand the flood depths,
pressures, velocities, impact, and uplift forces and other factors associated
with the two-tenths (0.2) percent annual chance flood; and that the structure,
below the two-tenths (0.2) percent annual chance flood elevation is watertight
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water. A record of the
certification indicating the specific elevation (in relation to North American
Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are floodproofed shall be
maintained by the Administrator. Where a two-tenths (0.2) percent chance flood
elevation data has not been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to compute such data. The
applicant will be responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources
with sufficient technical information to make such determinations.
185.08   GENERAL FLOODPLAIN (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (GF).
   1.   Permitted Uses.
      A.   All development within the General Floodplain District shall be
permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance (or
underlying zoning district) and provided they meet the applicable performance
standards of the General Floodplain District.
      B.   Any development which involves placement of structures, factory-
built homes, fill or other obstructions, storage of materials or equipment,
excavation or alteration of a watercourse shall be reviewed by the Department
of Natural Resources to determine:
         (1)   Whether the land involved is either wholly or partly within the
floodway or floodway fringe; and
         (2)   The Base Flood Elevation.
   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the Department of Natural
Resources with sufficient technical information to make the determination.
   2.   Performance Standards.
      A.   All development, or portions thereof, to be located in the floodway
as determined by the Department of Natural Resources shall meet the applicable
provisions and standards of the Floodway (Overlay) District, Section
185.06.
      B.   All development, or portions thereof, to be located in the floodway
fringe as determined by the Department of Natural Resources shall meet the
applicable provisions and standards of the Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District
Section
185.07.
185.09   RESERVED.
185.10   APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF APPEALS.
   1.   Appointment and Duties of Board of Appeals. A Board of Appeals is
hereby established which, hereinafter referred to as the Board, shall hear and
decide:
      A.   Appeals; and
      B.   Requests for Variances to the provisions of this chapter and shall
take any other action which is required of the Board.
   2.   Appeals. Where it is alleged that there is any error in any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in
the enforcement of this chapter, the aggrieved party may appeal such action.
The notice of appeal shall be filed with the Board and with the official from
whom the appeal is taken and shall set forth the specific reason for the
appeal. The official from whom the appeal is taken shall transmit to the Board
all the documents constituting the record upon which the action appealed from
was taken.
   3.   Variance. The Board may authorize upon request in specific cases such
Variances from the terms of this chapter that will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship. Variances
granted must meet the following applicable standards.
      A.   Variances shall only be granted upon:
         (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (2)   A determination that failure to grant the Variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (3)   A determination that the granting of the Variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local codes or ordinances.
      B.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood would result. Consideration of
the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the
assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly
situated lands.
      C.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
Variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      D.   In cases where the Variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for structures than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Administrator
that:
         (1)   The issuance of a Variance will result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as twenty-five dollars ($25.00)
for one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage; and
         (2)   Such construction increases risks to life and property.
      E.   All Variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
   4.   Hearings and Decisions of the Board.
      A.   Hearings. Upon the filing with the Board of an Appeal or a request
for a Variance, the Board shall hold a public hearing. The Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing and give public notice thereof, as well as due
notice to parties in interest. At the hearing, any party may appear in person
or by agent or attorney and present written or oral evidence. The Board may
require the appellant or applicant to provide such information as is reasonably
deemed necessary and may request the technical assistance and/or evaluation of
a professional engineer or other expert person or agency, including the
Department of Natural Resources.
      B.   Decisions. The Board shall arrive at a decision on an Appeal or
Variance within a reasonable time. In passing upon an Appeal, the Board may, so
long as such action is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter,
reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from, and it shall make its decision, in
writing, setting forth the findings of fact and the reasons for its decision.
In granting a variance, the Board shall consider such factors as contained in
this section and all other relevant sections of this chapter and may prescribe
such conditions as contained in Section
185.10(4)(B)(2).
         (1)   Factors Upon Which the Decision of the Board Shall Be Based. In
passing upon applications for Variances, the Board shall consider all relevant
factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
            a.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights
or velocities caused by encroachments.
            b.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or
downstream to the injury of others.
            c.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the
ability of these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary
conditions.
            d.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
            e.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the City.
            f.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
            g.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to
flooding for the proposed use.
            h.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing
development and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
            i.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for the area.
            j.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
            k.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood water expected at the site.
            l.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer,
gas, electrical, and water systems), facilities, streets, and bridges.
            m.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
chapter.
         (2)   Conditions Attached to Variances. Upon consideration of the
factors listed above, the Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
Variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this chapter. Such
conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
            a.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
            b.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
            c.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
            d.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of this chapter.
            e.   Floodproofing measures shall be designed consistent with the
flood protection elevation for the particular area, flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors associated
with the regulatory flood. The Board shall require that the applicant submit a
plan or document certified by a registered professional engineer that the
floodproofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection
elevation and associated flood factors for the particular area.
   5.   Appeals to the Court. Any person or persons, jointly or severally,
aggrieved by any decision of the Board may present to a court of record a
petition, duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole
or in part, specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be
presented to the court within thirty (30) days after the filing of the decision
in the office of the Board.
185.11   NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter, but
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may be
continued subject to the following conditions:
      A.   If such use is discontinued for six (6) consecutive months, any
future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
      B.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
      C.   If any nonconforming use or structure is damaged by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost equals or exceeds
fifty (50) percent of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred, unless it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter. This limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply
with existing State or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or
regulations, or the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the
National Register of Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not
preclude its continued designation.
   2.   Except as provided in Section 185.11(1)(B), any use which has been
permitted as a Variance shall be considered a conforming use.
185.12   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any
of the requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of Variances) shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned for not more than thirty (30) days.
Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
Nothing herein contained prevent the City from taking such other lawful action
as is necessary to prevent or remedy violation.
185.13   AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to
time be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
 
