BRYSON, TEXAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2026 S-2 Supplement, current through
Ordinance O-2026-04, passed 2-9-2026
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
***** ORDINANCE NO. O-2010-11 *****
   City of Bryson
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF BRYSON, TEXAS,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
Whereas, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
Whereas, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Texas empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
Whereas, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
Whereas, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BRYSON,
TEXAS:
Section 1.      The general ordinances of the City of Bryson as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Bryson, Texas.”
Section 2.      Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist
of the following Titles:
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   General Code Construction; General Penalty
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   30.   General Administration
   31.   Mayor; City Council
   32.   Tax and Finance
   33.   Officers and Employees
   34.   Defense; Emergency Management
   35.   Departments, Organizations and Committees
   36.   Records Management
   37.   Elections
   38.   Municipal Court
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   50.   Trash Collection
   51.   General Water Provisions
   52.   Sewer Provisions
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   70.   Traffic Regulations
   71.   Parking Regulations
   72.   Vehicles; Towing, Impounding
   73.   Traffic Schedules
   74.   Parking Schedules
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   90.   General Nuisances
   91.   Animals
   92.   Parks and Recreation
   93.   Fireworks
   94.   Fair Housing
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   110.   General Provisions
   111.   Peddlers, Itinerant Merchants, and Solicitors
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   130.   Miscellaneous Offenses
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   150.   Building Regulations
   151.   Substandard Building Control
   152.   Oil; Gas Wells; Drilling
   153.   Flood Damage Prevention
   154.   Subdivision Regulations
   155.   Electronic Advertising Signs
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Texas Statutes
   References to Ordinances
INDEX
Section 3.      All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.      Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the City Secretary is hereby
authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 5.      Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.   
Section 6.      This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
Passed, Approved, and Adopted by the City Council of the City of Bryson, Texas
on this the 11th day of October, 2010.
 
                               Sheila Birdwell, Mayor
                                 City of Bryson
Attest:                          
                                
Debbie Goodner, City Secretary   
City of Bryson
 
(Ord. O-2010-11, passed 11-21-2010)
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Altering or tampering with code
   
10.20   Nepotism
   
10.21   Approval of legal documents
   
10.22   Annual audit
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Bryson, Texas, shall
be designated as the Code of Bryson, and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality to codify ordinances, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code,
Ch. 53
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Bryson, Texas.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Jack County, Texas.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Texas.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, declared void, ineffective, or
unconstitutional by a valid judgment or final decree of a court of competent
jurisdiction, such voidness, ineffectiveness, or unconstitutionality shall not
affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs,
subsections, chapters, subchapters, etc. since the same would have been enacted
by the City Council without the incorporation.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in a section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication, including but not limited to the following types of ordinances:
      (1)   Any ordinance guaranteeing or promising the payment of money for
the municipality or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the municipality
or any evidence of the municipality’s indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or ordinance providing for an annual
budget or prescribing salaries for municipal officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance annexing territory to the municipality or
discontinuing territory as a part of the municipality;
      (4)   Any ordinance designating or otherwise relating to municipal
depositories;
      (5)   Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit or other right;
      (6)   Any ordinance approving, prescribing or otherwise relating to rates
to be charged by private utility companies;
      (7)   Any ordinance approving, authorizing or otherwise relating to any
contract or agreement;
      (8)   Any ordinance accepting, dedicating, vacating or otherwise relating
to any easement; and
      (9)   Any ordinance establishing or amending the zoning designation of
land.
   (B)   All the ordinances mentioned in division (A) are hereby recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
herein.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.
      Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
      Example: (Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 54.001) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980;
Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
      Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, §§ 552.001
et seq.
§ 10.19 ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be an offense for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by
addition or deletion, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or to tamper with this code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause a law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.20 NEPOTISM.
   It shall be unlawful for any officer or employee of the city to commit, or
engage in any practice constituting, nepotism, as such offense is defined in
the laws of the state.
§ 10.21 APPROVAL OF LEGAL DOCUMENTS.
   The Mayor shall sign, the City Secretary shall attest to, and the legal
counsel shall approve as to form all legal instruments requiring the assent of
the city, unless otherwise provided for by law.
§ 10.22 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   The city shall have its records and accounts audited annually, and a
financial statement based upon the audit shall be prepared.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Local Gov’t Code, § 103.001(a)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city an act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or ordinance the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of
this code or any such ordinance shall be punished by:
      (1)   A fine not to exceed $2,000 in all cases arising under municipal
ordinances that govern fire safety, zoning and public health and sanitation,
including dumping of refuse.
      (2)   A fine not to exceed $500 in all other cases; provided, however,
that no penalty shall be greater or less than the penalty provided for the same
or a similar offense under the laws of the state.
   (B)   Each day any violation of this code or of any ordinance shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense. In the event that any such violation is
designated as a nuisance under the provisions of this code, the nuisance may be
summarily abated by the City Manager or the Chief of Police or their assigns.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal penalties, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 54.001
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
      
31.   MAYOR; CITY COUNCIL
      
32.   TAX AND FINANCE
      
33.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
34.   DEFENSE; EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
35.   DEPARTMENTS, ORGANIZATIONS AND COMMITTEES
      
36.   RECORDS MANAGEMENT
      
37.   ELECTIONS
      
38.   MUNICIPAL COURT
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
30.01   Damage; injury, liability
   
30.02   Form of government
§ 30.01 DAMAGE; INJURY, LIABILITY.
   (A)   The city shall never be liable for any claim for property damage or
for personal injury, whether the personal injury results in death or not,
unless the person damaged or injured, or someone in his behalf, or in the event
the injury results in death, the person or persons who may have a cause of
action under the law by reason of the death or injury, shall, within 60 days or
within six months for good cause shown from the date the damage or injury was
received, give notice in writing to the Mayor and City Council of the following
facts:
      (1)   The date and time when the injury occurred and the place where the
injured person or property was at the time when the injury was received;
      (2)   The nature of the damage or injury sustained;
      (3)   The apparent extent of the damage or injury sustained;
      (4)   A specific and detailed statement of how and under what
circumstances the damage or injury occurred;
      (5)   The amount for which each claimants will settle;
      (6)   The actual place of residence of each claimant by street, number,
city and state on the date the claim is presented;
      (7)   In the case of personal injury or death, the names and addresses of
all persons who, according to the knowledge or information of the claimant
witnessed the happening of the injury or any part thereof and the names of the
doctors, if any, to whose care the injured person is committed; and
      (8)   In the case of property damage, the location of the damaged
property at the time the claim was submitted along with the names and addresses
of all persons who witnessed the happening of the damage or any part thereof.
   (B)   No suit of any nature whatsoever shall be instituted or maintained
against the city, unless the plaintiff therein shall aver and prove that
previous to the filing of the original petition the plaintiff applied to the
City Council for redress, satisfaction, compensation or relief, as the case may
be, and that the same was by vote of the City Council refused.
   (C)   All notices required by this section shall be effectuated by serving
them upon the City Secretary at the following location: Bryson City Hall, Depot
Street: one block north of blinking light, and all the notices shall be
effective only when actually received in the office of the person named above.
   (D)   Neither the Mayor, City Council member, nor any other officer or
employee of the city shall have the authority to waive any of the provisions of
this section.
   (E)   The written notice required under this section shall be sworn to by
the person claiming the damage or injuries or by someone authorized by him or
her to do so on his or her behalf. Failure to swear to the notice as required
herein shall not render the notice fatally defective, but failure to so verify
the notice maybe considered by the City Council as a factor relating to the
truth of the allegations and to the weight to be given to the allegations
contained therein.
(Ord. 132, passed 3-9-1987)
§ 30.02 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   The Type A General Law, Aldermanic form of government is hereby
adopted in accordance with Texas Local Gov’t Code, Title 2, Ch. 6. The City
Council shall be composed of a Mayor and five Council members elected at large.
The City Council may provide for officers and agents as it may from time to
time direct to be appointed or elected.
   (B)   The provisions of Texas Local Gov’t Code, Title 2, pertaining to Type
A General Law municipalities, are hereby adopted and accepted.
CHAPTER 31: MAYOR; CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
31.01   Federal Social Security; participation
   
31.02   City Council; regular meetings
   
31.03   Meetings; rules of procedure
   
31.04   Oaths and anti-bribery statements
§ 31.01 FEDERAL SOCIAL SECURITY; PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   The City Council, acting for and on behalf of the city, shall enter
into all necessary agreements with the state for the purpose of participating
in the Federal Social Security program.
   (B)   The Mayor is appointed as agent of the City Council and of the city to
execute all necessary agreements and instruments for and in behalf of the City
Council and city;
   (C)   The City Secretary is responsible for making assessments, collections,
payments and reports, as required by the state for participation in the Social
Security program.
   (D)   A sufficient sum of money shall be allocated and set aside from
available funds for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the Social
Security program, the money so allocated and set aside to be known as the city
Social Security Fund, which fund shall be set aside and maintained in the
regular city depository.
(Ord. 65, passed 3-10-1975)
§ 31.02 CITY COUNCIL; REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular meeting date of the City Council of the city be changed to the
second Monday of each month, to convene at 6:30 p.m., and is hereby so ordered
and to remain the same until changed by ordinance.
(Ord. 27, passed 5-6-1946)
§ 31.03 MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All regular, special, emergency and executive session meetings of the
City Council will be called and conducted in accordance with the provisions of
the Texas Open Meetings Act, Tex. Gov’t. Code, Ch. 551.
   (B)   Regular, special and emergency meetings of the City Council are open
to the public and to representatives of the press and media. Executive sessions
of the City Council are not open to the public, the press or the media and only
those individuals expressly requested or ordered to be present are allowed to
attend executive session.
   (C)   The City Council is scheduled to meet in regular session on the second
Monday of each month. In order for a matter or issue to appear as an agenda
item on the agenda of any regular meeting of the City Council, a request must
be filed and approved by at least one member of the City Council and/or the
Mayor by 12:00 p.m. on the Wednesday immediately preceding the next regular
meeting of the City Council.
   (D)   The business of the city is conducted by and between the members of
the City Council and by those members of the city staff, elected officials,
department heads, consultants, experts and/or members of the public requested
to be present and participate. While the public is invited to attend all
meetings of the City Council (except executive session) the public’s
participation therein is limited to that of observers unless a member ( or
members) of the public completes a public participation form (Example attached
as Exhibit “A”) and submits same to the City Secretary prior to the time of the
start of the meeting.
      (1)   It will be the policy hereby of the City Council to provide an
opportunity for public comment at the beginning of each meeting, except for
public hearings.
      (2)   Public comment in connection with scheduled public hearings will be
taken up on that item as it is taken up by the Council in that day’s business
or as scheduled.
         (a)   Each member of the public who appears before the City Council
shall be limited to a maximum of three minutes to make his or her remarks. Time
for each speaker shall be maintained by the City Secretary or other designated
representative of the Council.
         (b)   Maximum discussion on any agenda item, regardless of the number
of members of the public wishing to address the City Council on the agenda item
(or items), shall be limited to 30 minutes. In the event that more than six
members of the public wish to address a particular agenda item (or items), then
only the first six speakers will be recognized. To the extent possible, the six
members of the public recognized to speak shall be divided equally between
those members of the public wishing to speak for the agenda item (or items) and
those members of the public wishing to speak against the agenda item (or
items).
         (c)   In matters of exceptional interest, the Council may, by the
majority vote of the members of the Council in attendance at the meeting,
either shorten or lengthen the time allocated for a particular member of the
public, all members of the public and/or the amount of time allocated for all
agenda items and/or a specific agenda item.
         (d)   It is the intention of the Council to provide an open access to
the citizens of the city to address the City Council and express themselves on
issues of city government. Members of the public are reminded that the City
Council.
         (e)   It is not the intention of the City Council to provide a public
forum for the demeaning of any individual or group. Neither is it the intention
of the Council to allow a member (or members) of the public to insult the
honesty and/or integrity of the Council, as a body, or any member or members of
the Council, individually or collectively. Accordingly, profane, insulting or
threatening language directed toward the Council and/or any person in the
Council’s presence and/or racial, ethnic, gender slurs or epithets will not be
tolerated. Violation of these rules may result in the following actions:
            1.   Cancellation of a speaker’s remaining time;
            2.   Removal from the City Council meeting;
            3.   Citation; and/or
            4.   Other civil and/or criminal actions as may be authorized under
the Constitution, statutes and codes of the state.
   (E)   The Mayor is the presiding officer of the City Council and is a fully
participating member thereof. In the event of the absence of the Mayor, the
Mayor Pro-Tem shall serve as presiding officer.
   (F)   The Mayor (or the designated Mayor Pro-Tem), as presiding officer of
the City Council, is responsible for conducting all meetings. Members of the
public who have properly completed a public participation form and submitted
same to the City Secretary must wait to be recognized before they will be
allowed to address the Council.
   (G)   From time to time, the City Council shall conduct town meetings and
public hearings. These rules of procedure, conduct and decorum shall also apply
to the town meetings and public hearings; however, the Council may adopt
additional and supplemental rules for the meetings as may be necessary and
appropriate to conduct the meetings in an orderly, efficient and proper manner.
(Ord. 186, passed 5-11-2009)
§ 31.04 OATHS AND ANTI-BRIBERY STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Councilmembers.
      (1)   Each member of the City Council must file with the City Secretary
the following statement sworn, in writing, and under notary seal, before taking
the oath of office required by the Texas Constitution, Article XVI, Section 1
(c), as follows:
   I, _____________________________, do solemnly swear (or affirm), that I have
not directly or indirectly paid, offered, promised to pay, contributed, or
promised to contribute any money or thing of value, or promised any public
office or employment, as a reward to secure my appointment or confirmation
thereof, so help me God.
      (2)   Upon the filing of the anti-bribery statement, each Councilmember
shall take the oath of office required by the Texas Constitution, Article XVI,
Section 1(a), as follows:
   I, _____________________________, do solemnly swear (or affirm), that I will
faithfully execute the duties of the office of Councilmember for the City of
Bryson, a general law municipality located in Jack County, Texas, and will, to
the best of my ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution and laws
of the United States and the State of Texas, so help me God.
   (B)   Mayor.
      (1)   The Mayor of Bryson must file with the City Secretary the following
statement sworn, in writing, and under notary seal, before taking the oath of
office required by the Texas Constitution, Article XVI, Section 1(c), as
follows:
   I, _____________________________, do solemnly swear (or affirm), that I have
not directly or indirectly paid, offered, promised to pay, contributed, or
promised to contribute any money or thing of value, or promised any public
office or employment, as a reward to secure my appointment or confirmation
thereof, so help me God.
      (2)   Upon the filing of the anti-bribery statement, the Mayor shall take
the oath of office required by the Texas Constitution, Article XVI, Section 1
(a), as follows:
   I, _____________________________, do solemnly swear (or affirm), that I will
faithfully execute the duties of the office of Mayor for the City of Bryson, a
general law municipality located in Jack County, Texas, and will, to the best
of my ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution and laws of the
United States and the State of Texas, so help me God.
CHAPTER 32: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
   
32.01   Fiscal year
   
32.02   Budget Officer
   
32.03   Budget; required
   
32.04   Budget; content
   
32.05   Cooperation required; budget
   
32.06   Budget; time of filing
   
32.07   Public inspection; budget
   
32.08   Public hearings and filing with county and state
   
32.09   Audit
   
32.10   Levy of taxes and assessments
§ 32.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year for the city shall be as established by City Council.
§ 32.02 BUDGET OFFICER.
   The Budget Officer of the city shall be the Mayor of the city.
Statutory reference:
   See Local Gov't Code, § 102.001
§ 32.03 BUDGET; REQUIRED.
   The Budget Officer shall, with the aid and counsel of the members of the
City Council, annually prepare a budget to cover all proposed expenditures of
the government of the city for the succeeding year.
Statutory reference:
   See Local Gov't Code, § 102.002
§ 32.04 BUDGET; CONTENT.
   (A)   The budget shall show all expenditures proposed and shall be carefully
itemized so as to make as clear of a comparison as practicable between
expenditures included in the proposed budget and actual expenditures for the
same or similar purposes for the preceding year.
   (B)   The budget must also show as definitely as possible each of the
various projects for which appropriations are made in the budget and the
budgeted sums for each of the projects.
   (C)   The budget shall also contain a complete financial statement of the
city showing all outstanding obligations of the city, the cash on hand to
credit of each and every fund, the funds received from all sources during the
previous year, the funds available from all sources during the ensuing year,
the estimated revenue available to cover the proposed budget, and the estimated
rate of tax which will be required.
§ 32.05 COOPERATION REQUIRED; BUDGET.
   The Mayor shall have the authority to require any officer or other unit of
the city government to furnish information as may, in the Mayor's discretion,
be necessary to afford proper preparation of the proposed budget.
§ 32.06 BUDGET; TIME OF FILING.
   The budget shall be filed with the City Secretary not less than 30 days
prior to the time the Council makes its tax levy for the current fiscal year.
Statutory reference:
   See Local Gov't Code, § 102.005
§ 32.07 PUBLIC INSPECTION; BUDGET.
   The budget filed with the City Secretary shall be available for inspection
to any taxpayer during reasonable business hours.
Statutory reference:
   See Local Gov't Code, § 102.005(C)
§ 32.08 PUBLIC HEARINGS AND FILING WITH COUNTY AND STATE.
   A public hearing shall be had and the budget adopted thereafter shall be
filed with the proper county and state officials in accordance with Texas Local
Gov't Code, §§ 102.006 through 102.008.
§ 32.09 AUDIT.
   An audit of the books of account of the city shall be made and filed
annually in accordance with Texas Local Gov't Code, §§ 103.001 through 103.003.
§ 32.10 LEVY OF TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS.
   All taxes or assessments shall be levied by ordinance.
CHAPTER 33: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
33.01   City Secretary
   
33.02   Director of Public Works
   
33.03   Fire Chief
   
33.04   Service
   
33.05   Probationary period
   
33.06   Oaths and anti-bribery statements
   
33.07   Texas Municipal Retirement System
§ 33.01 CITY SECRETARY.
   There shall be an officer of the city known as the City Secretary who shall
have the duties and powers set forth in Texas Local Gov't Code, § 22.073. The
City Secretary shall be appointed by the City Council and serve at the pleasure
of the City Council. The City Secretary shall also perform the duties of the
City Treasurer as set forth in Texas Local Gov't Code, § 22.075.
§ 33.02 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   There shall be an officer known as the Director of Public Works who shall
have the duty to construct, maintain and repair as necessary all assets of the
city and shall supervise the activities of all maintenance employees of the
city.
§ 33.03 FIRE CHIEF.
   There shall be an officer known as the Fire Chief who shall be the commander
and administrative head of the Fire Department and its personnel.
§ 33.04 SERVICE.
   All officers and agents of the city shall serve at the pleasure of the City
Council.
§ 33.05 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   (A)   Each new or re-hire employee or officer of the city shall be on a
probationary period for the first 90 days starting on the first full day of
work after the date of hire. Employees who are promoted or transferred within
the city must complete a secondary introductory period of the same length with
each reassignment to a new position.
   (B)   If the Department Head or designee determines that the designated
probationary period does not allow sufficient time to thoroughly evaluate the
employee's performance, the probationary period may be extended for a specific
period.
§ 33.06 OATHS AND ANTI-BRIBERY STATEMENTS.
      (A)   The City Secretary must file in the city records the following
statement sworn, in writing, and under notary seal, before taking the oath of
office required by the Texas Constitution, Article XVI, Section 1(c), as
follows:
   I, _____________________________, do solemnly swear (or affirm), that I have
not directly or indirectly paid, offered, promised to pay, contributed, or
promised to contribute any money or thing of value, or promised any public
office or employment, as a reward to secure my appointment or confirmation
thereof, so help me God.
      (B)   Upon the filing of the anti-bribery statement, the City Secretary
shall take the oath of office required by the Texas Constitution, Article XVI,
Section 1(a), as follows:
   I, _____________________________, do solemnly swear (or affirm), that I will
faithfully execute the duties of the office of City Secretary for the City of
Bryson, a general law municipality located in Jack County, Texas, and will, to
the best of my ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution and laws
of the United States and the State of Texas, so help me God.
§ 33.07 TEXAS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   The Texas Municipal Retirement System provisions of the city are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length
herein.
CHAPTER 34: DEFENSE; EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
34.01   Emergency management
   
34.02   National Incident Management System
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Organization. There exists the office of Emergency Management Director
of the city, which shall be held by the Mayor in accordance with state law.
      (1)   An Emergency Management Coordinator may be appointed by and serve
at the pleasure of the Director.
      (2)   The Director shall be responsible for a program of comprehensive
emergency management within the city and for carrying out the duties and
responsibilities set forth in this section. He or she may delegate authority
for execution to appropriate personnel, but responsibility shall remain with
the Director.
      (3)   The operational emergency management organization of the city shall
consist of the officers and employees of the city so designated by the Director
in the emergency management plan, as well as organized volunteer groups. The
functions and duties of this organization shall be distributed among the
officers and employees in accordance with the terms of the Emergency Management
Plan.
   (B)   Emergency Management Director; powers and duties. The duties and
responsibilities of the Emergency Management Director shall include the
following:
      (1)   Surveying actual or potential hazards which threaten life and
property within the city and identifying and requiring or recommending the
implementation of measures which would tend to prevent the occurrence or reduce
the impact of the hazards if a disaster did occur;
      (2)   Supervision of the development and approval of an emergency
management plan for the city, and shall recommend for adoption by the City
Council all mutual aid arrangements deemed necessary for the implementation of
the plan;
      (3)   Authority to declare a local state of disaster. The declaration may
not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven days except by or
with the consent of the City Council. Any order or proclamation declaring,
continuing or terminating a local state of disaster shall be given prompt and
general publicity and shall be filed promptly with the City Secretary;
      (4)   Issuance of necessary proclamations, regulations or directives
which are necessary for carrying out the purposes of this section. The
proclamations, regulations or directives shall be disseminated promptly by
means calculated to bring its contents to the attention of the general public
and, unless circumstances attendant on the disaster prevent or impede, promptly
filed with the City Secretary;
      (5)   Direction and control of the operations of the city emergency
management organization as well as the training of the emergency management
personnel;
      (6)   Determination of all questions of authority and responsibility that
may arise within the emergency management organization of the city;
      (7)   Maintenance of liaison with other municipal, county, district,
state regional or federal emergency management organizations;
      (8)   Marshaling of all necessary personnel, equipment or supplies from
any department of the city to aid in the carrying out of the provisions of the
emergency management plan;
      (9)   Supervision of the drafting and execution of mutual aid agreements,
in cooperation with the representatives of the state and of other local
political subdivisions of the state, and the drafting and execution, if deemed
desirable, of an agreement with the county in which the city is located and
with other municipalities within the county, for the county-wide coordination
of emergency management efforts;
      (10)   Supervision of, and final authorization for the procurement of all
necessary supplies and equipment, including acceptance of private contributions
which may be offered for the purpose of improving emergency management within
the city;
      (11)   Authorizing of agreements, after approval by the City Attorney,
for use of private property for public shelter and other purposes;
      (12)   Surveying the availability of existing personnel, equipment,
supplies and services which could be used during a disaster, as provided for
herein; and
      (13)   Other requirements as specified in the Texas Disaster Act (Tex.
Gov’t Code, Ch. 418).
   (C)   Emergency management plan. A comprehensive emergency management plan
shall be developed and maintained in a current state. The plan shall set forth
the form of the organization; establish and designate divisions and functions;
assign responsibilities, tasks, duties and powers; and designate officers and
employees to carry out the provisions of this section. As provided by state
law, the plan shall follow the standards and criteria established by the State
Division of Emergency Management. Insofar as possible, the form of
organization, titles and terminology shall conform to the recommendations of
the State Division of Emergency Management. When approved, it shall be the duty
of all departments and agencies to perform the functions assigned by the plan
and to maintain their portion of the plan in a current state of readiness at
all times. The emergency management plan shall be considered supplementary to
this section, and have the effect of law during the time of a disaster.
   (D)   Interjurisdictional program. The Mayor is hereby authorized to join
with the County Judge of the county and the Mayors of the other cities in the
county in the formation of an interjurisdictional emergency management program
for the county, and shall have the authority to cooperate in the preparation of
an interjurisdictional emergency management plan and in the appointment of a
joint Emergency Management Coordinator, as well as all powers necessary to
participate in a county-wide program of emergency management insofar as the
program will affect the city.
   (E)   Override. At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and
promulgated pursuant to this section shall be in effect, they shall supersede
and override all existing ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as
the latter may be inconsistent therewith.
   (F)   Liability. This section is an exercise by the city of its governmental
functions for the protection of the public peace, health and safety and neither
the city, the agents and representatives of the city, nor any individual,
receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association or trustee, nor any of
the agents thereof, in good faith carrying out, complying with or attempting to
comply with, any order, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the
provisions of this section shall be liable for any damage sustained to persons
as the result of the activity. Any person owning or controlling real estate or
other premises who voluntarily and without compensation grants to the city a
license of privilege, or otherwise permits the city to inspect, designate and
use the whole or any part or parts of the real estate or premises for the
purpose of sheltering persons during an actual, impending or practice enemy
attack or natural or human- made disaster shall, together with his or her
successors in interest, if any, not be civilly liable for the death of, or
injury to, any person on or about the real estate or premises under the
license, privilege or other permission or for loss of, or damage to, the
property of the person.
   (G)   Commitment of funds. No person shall have the right to expend any
public funds of the city in carrying out any emergency management activity
authorized by this section without prior approval by the City Council, nor
shall any person have any right to bind the city by contract, agreement or
otherwise without prior and specific approval of the City Council unless during
a declared disaster. During a declared disaster, the Mayor may expend and/or
commit public funds of the city when deemed prudent and necessary for the
protection of health, life or property.
   (H)   Offenses.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to obstruct, hinder
or delay any member of the emergency management organization in the enforcement
of any rule or regulation issued pursuant to this section.
      (2)   It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to wear, carry or
display any emblem, insignia or any other means of identification as a member
of the emergency management organization of the city, unless authority to do so
has been granted to that person by the proper officials.
(Ord. 159, passed 8-11-2003) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.02 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   In accordance with the Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) - 5,
the city hereby adopts the National Incident Management System dated March 1,
2004.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2005; O-Ord. 2014-30, passed 10-10-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Emergency management, see Tex. Gov’t Code, Ch. 418
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Convictions for violations of the provisions of §
34.01 shall be punishable by fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 159, passed 8-11-2003)
CHAPTER 35: DEPARTMENTS, ORGANIZATIONS AND COMMITTEES
Section
   
35.01   Departments generally
   
35.02   Commissions and committees generally
   
35.03   Department of Public Works
   
35.04   Building Inspection
Cross-reference:
   Parks and Recreation Board, see §§
92.15 -
92.18
§ 35.01 DEPARTMENTS GENERALLY.
   There shall exist departments of the city as the Council may from time to
time create or abolish. The creation or the abolition of a department shall be
by passage of a resolution of the Council.
§ 35.02 COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES GENERALLY.
   The City Council may from time to time by ordinance create commissions and
committees as it determines to be in the best interest of the city and its
inhabitants.
§ 35.03 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   The Department of Public Works shall be the responsibility of the Director
of Public Works and shall maintain, repair or build, or supervise construction
as required for all city assets.
§ 35.04 BUILDING INSPECTION.
   The Director of Public Works shall be ex-officio Building Inspector.
CHAPTER 36: RECORDS MANAGEMENT
Section
   
36.01   Municipal records
   
36.02   Definitions
   
36.03   Records declared public property
   
36.04   Policy
   
36.05   Records Management Officer
   
36.06   Plan to be developed; approval; authority
   
36.07   Duties of Records Management Officer
   
36.08   Duties, responsibilities of department heads
   
36.09   Records control schedules to be developed; approval; filing with state
   
36.10   Implementation of records control schedules; destruction of records
under schedule
   
36.11   Destruction of unscheduled records
§ 36.01 MUNICIPAL RECORDS.
   All documents, papers, letters, books, maps, photographs, sound or video
recordings, microfilm, magnetic tape, electronic media or other information
recording media, regardless of physical form or characteristic and regardless
of whether public access to them is open or restricted under the laws of the
state, created or received by the city or any of its officers or employees
pursuant to law or in the transaction of public business are hereby declared to
be the records of the city and shall be created, maintained and disposed of in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter or procedures authorized by
it and in no other manner.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT HEAD. The officer who by ordinance or administrative policy is in
charge of an office of the city that creates or receives records.
   ESSENTIAL RECORD. Any record of the city necessary to the resumption or
continuation of its operations in an emergency or disaster, to the recreation
of its legal and financial status, or to the protection and fulfillment of
obligations to the people of the state.
   PERMANENT RECORD. Any record of the city for which the retention period on a
records control schedule is given as permanent.
   RECORD CONTROL SCHEDULE. A document prepared by or under the authority of
the Records Management Officer listing the records maintained by the city,
their retention periods and other records disposition information that the
records management program may require.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT. The application of management techniques to the
creation, use, maintenance, retention, preservation and disposal of records for
the purpose of reducing the costs and improving the efficiency of record-
keeping. The term includes the development of records control schedules, the
management of filing and information retrieval systems, the protection of
essential and permanent records, the economical and space-effective storage of
inactive records, control over the creation and distribution of forms, reports
and correspondence, and the management of micrographics and electronic and
other records storage systems.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER. The person designated in §
36.05 below.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT PLAN. The plan developed under §
36.06 below.
   RETENTION PERIOD. The minimum time that must pass after the creation,
recording or receipt of a record, or the fulfillment of certain actions
associated with a record, before it is eligible for destruction.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 36.03 RECORDS DECLARED PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   All municipal records as defined in §
36.02 above are hereby declared to be the property of the city. No municipal
official or employee has, by virtue of his or her position, any personal or
property right to the records even though he or she may have developed or
compiled them.
   (B)   The unauthorized destruction, removal from files, or use of the
records is prohibited.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 36.04 POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to provide for efficient,
economical and effective controls over the creation, distribution, maintenance,
use and disposition of all municipal records through a comprehensive system of
integrated procedures for their management from creation to ultimate
disposition, consistent with the requirements of the Texas Local Government
Records Act and accepted records management practice.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 36.05 RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The City Secretary, and the successive holders of that office, shall
serve as Records Management Officer for the city.
   (B)   As provided by state law, each successive holder of the office shall
file his or her name with the director and librarian of the state library
within 30 days of the initial designation or of taking up the office, as
applicable.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 36.06 PLAN TO BE DEVELOPED; APPROVAL; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Records Management Officer shall develop a records management plan
for the city for submission to the City Council.
      (1)   The plan must contain policies and procedures designed to reduce
the costs and improve the efficiency of record-keeping, to adequately protect
the essential records of the municipality, and to properly preserve those
records of the municipality that are of historical value.
      (2)   The plan must be designed to enable the Records Management Officer
to carry out his or her duties prescribed by state law and this subchapter
effectively.
   (B)   Once approved by the City Council, the records management plan shall
be binding on all offices, departments, divisions, programs, commissions,
bureaus, boards, committees or similar entities of the city and records shall
be created, maintained, stored, microfilmed or disposed of in accordance with
the plan.
   (C)   State law relating to the duties, other responsibilities or record-
keeping requirements of a department head do not exempt the department head or
the records in the department head’s care from the application of this
subchapter and the records management plan adopted under it and may not be used
by the department head as a basis for refusal to participate in the records
management program of the city.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 36.07 DUTIES OF RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this subchapter, the Records
Management Officer shall:
   (A)   Administer the records management program and provide assistance to
department heads in its implementation;
   (B)   Plan, formulate and prescribe records disposition policies, systems,
standards and procedures;
   (C)   In cooperation with department heads, identify essential records and
establish a disaster plan for each municipal office and department to ensure
maximum availability of the records in order to re- establish operations
quickly and with minimum disruption and expense;
   (D)   Develop procedures to ensure the permanent preservation of the
historically valuable records of the city;
   (E)   Establish standards for filing and storage equipment and for record-
keeping supplies;
   (F)   Study the feasibility of and, if appropriate, establish a uniform
filing system and a forms design and control system for the city;
   (G)   Monitor records retention schedules and administrative rules issued by
the state library and Archives Commission to determine if the records
management program and the city’s records control schedules are in compliance
with state regulations;
   (H)   Disseminate to the City Council and department heads information
concerning state laws and administrative rules relating to local government
records;
   (I)   Ensure that the maintenance, preservation, microfilming, destruction
or other disposition of the records of the city are carried out in accordance
with the policies and procedures of the records management program and the
requirements of state law;
   (J)   Maintain records on the volume of records destroyed under approved
records control schedules or through records destruction authorization
requests, the volume of records microfilmed or stored electronically, and the
estimated cost and space savings as the result of the disposal or disposition;
   (K)   Report annually to the City Council on the implementation of the
records management plan in each department of the city including summaries of
the statistical and fiscal data compiled under division (J) above; and
   (L)   Bring to the attention of the City Council noncompliance by department
heads or other municipal personnel with the policies and procedures of the
records management program or the Local Government Records Act.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 36.08 DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this subchapter, department heads
shall:
   (A)   Cooperate with the Records Management Officer in carrying out the
policies and procedures established in the City Council for the efficient and
economical management of records and in carrying out the requirements of this
subchapter;
   (B)   Adequately document the transaction of government business and the
services, programs and duties for which the department head and his or her
staff are responsible; and
   (C)   Maintain the records in his or her care and carry out their
preservation, microfilming, destruction or other disposition only in accordance
with the policies and procedures of the records management program of the city
and the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 36.09 RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES TO BE DEVELOPED; APPROVAL, FILING WITH STATE.
   (A)   The Records Management Officer, in cooperation with department heads,
shall prepare records control schedules on a department by department basis
listing all records series created or received by the department and the
retention period for each series. Records control schedules shall also contain
other information regarding the disposition of municipal records as the records
management plan may require.
   (B)   Each records control schedule shall be monitored and amended as needed
by the Records Management Officer on a regular basis, to ensure that it is in
compliance with records retention schedules issued by the state, and that it
continues to reflect the record-keeping procedures and needs of the department
and the records management program of the city.
   (C)   Before its adoption, a records control schedule or amended schedule
for a department must be approved by the department head and the City Council.
   (D)   Before its adoption, a records control schedule must be submitted to
and accepted for filing by the director and librarian as provided by state law.
      (1)   If a schedule is not accepted for filing, the schedule shall be
amended to make it acceptable for filing.
      (2)   The Records Management Officer shall submit the records control
schedules to the director and librarian.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 36.10 IMPLEMENTATION OF RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES; DESTRUCTION OF RECORDS
UNDER SCHEDULE.
   (A)   A records control schedule for a department that has been approved and
adopted under §
36.09 above shall be implemented by department heads according to the policies
and procedures of the records management plan.
   (B)   A record whose retention period has expired on a records control
schedule shall be destroyed unless an open records request is pending on the
record, the subject matter of the record is pertinent to a pending law suit, or
the department head requests in writing to the Records Management Officer that
the record be retained for an additional period.
   (C)   Prior to the destruction of a record under an approved records control
schedule, authorization for the destruction must be obtained by the Records
Management Officer from the City Council.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 36.11 DESTRUCTION OF UNSCHEDULED RECORDS.
   A record that has not yet been listed on an approved records control
schedule may be destroyed if its destruction has been approved in the same
manner as a record destroyed under an approved schedule and the Records
Management Officer has submitted to and received back from the director and
librarian an approved destruction authorization request.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-8-1997)
CHAPTER 37: ELECTIONS
Section
   
37.01   General election laws of state to control
§ 37.01 GENERAL ELECTION LAWS OF STATE TO CONTROL.
   All municipal elections held in the city shall be conducted and results
canvassed and announced by the election authorities, prescribed by the general
election laws of the state, and the general election laws shall control in the
municipal elections.
CHAPTER 38: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
Municipal Court
   
38.01   Municipal court created
   
38.02   Jurisdiction
   
38.03   Warrant of arrest; fee
   
38.04   Dismissal fee
   
38.05   Municipal Court Building Security Fund
   
38.06   Municipal Court Technology Fund
Municipal Judge
   
38.20   Office of municipal judge created; appointment; compensation; oath
   
38.21   Vacancy
   
38.22   Alternate judge
   
38.23   Term of office
   
38.24   Removal of judge
   
38.25   Qualifications
Court Clerk
   
38.40   Office of court clerk created; appointment
   
38.41   Duties of court clerk
Juries
   
38.50   Jury duty pay
**** MUNICIPAL COURT ****
§ 38.01 MUNICIPAL COURT CREATED.
   There is hereby created a court in and for the municipality which shall be
known as the Municipal Court.
§ 38.02 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The municipal court shall have exclusive original jurisdiction within
the municipality's territorial limits and property owned by the municipality
located in the municipality's extraterritorial jurisdiction in all criminal
cases that:
      (1)   Arise under:
         (a)   The ordinances of the municipality; or
         (b)   A resolution, rule, or order of a joint board operating an
airport under Tex. Transp. Code § 22.074; and
      (2)   Are punishable by a fine not to exceed:
         (a)   $2,000 in all cases arising under municipal ordinances or
resolutions, rules, or orders of a joint board that govern fire safety, zoning,
or public health and sanitation, including dumping of refuse; or
         (b)   $500 in all other cases arising under a municipal ordinance or a
resolution, rule, or order of a joint board.
   (B)   The municipal court has concurrent jurisdiction with the justice court
of a precinct in which the municipality is located in all criminal cases
arising under state law that arise within the municipality's territorial limits
or property owned by the municipality located in the municipality's
extraterritorial jurisdiction and that:
      (1)   Are punishable only by a fine, as defined in division (C) of this
section; or
      (2)   Arise under Tex. Alcoholic Bev. Code, Ch. 106, and do not include
confinement as an authorized sanction.
   (C)   In this section, an offense which is punishable by FINE ONLY is
defined as an offense that is punishable by fine and such sanctions, if any, as
authorized by statute not consisting of confinement in jail or imprisonment.
   (D)   The fact that a conviction in the municipal court has as a consequence
the imposition of a penalty or sanction by an agency or entity other than the
court, such as a denial, suspension, or revocation of a privilege, does not
affect the original jurisdiction of the municipal court.
   (E)   The municipal court has jurisdiction in the forfeiture and final
judgment of all bail bonds and personal bonds taken in criminal cases of which
the court has jurisdiction.
(Tex. Gov't Code § 29.003)
§ 38.03 WARRANT OF ARREST; FEE.
   If any person fails to appear before the court, either in compliance with a
personal bond or as directed by notice from the municipal court clerk's office,
a warrant for his or her arrest shall be issued and a special expense of $25
shall be charged for the issuance of such warrant, which sum shall be deposited
in the general fund. The fee shall not be refundable except on the finding by
the court that notice was not properly given.
§ 38.04 DISMISSAL FEE.
   The municipal court shall collect a special expense of $10 from each
defendant as a condition of dismissal of any case against the defendant because
of actions by or on behalf of the defendant subsequent to the date of the
alleged offense, such as the completion by the defendant of a safety driving
course. Such sum shall be paid into the general funds of the municipality.
§ 38.05 MUNICIPAL COURT BUILDING SECURITY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Municipal Court Building
Security Fund (the “Fund”) pursuant to Article 102.017 of the Tex. Code of
Criminal Procedure.
   (B)   The Municipal Court of the city (the “Municipal Court”) is hereby
authorized and required to assess a Municipal Court Building Security Fee (the
“fee”) of $3 against all defendants convicted of a misdemeanor offense by the
Municipal Court. Each misdemeanor conviction shall be subject to a separate
assessment of the fee.
   (C)   A person is considered to have been convicted in a case if:
      (1)   Judgment, sentence, or both are imposed on the person;
      (2)   The person is placed on deferred disposition; or
      (3)   The Court defers final disposition or imposition of the judgment
and sentence.
   (D)   The Municipal Court Clerk is hereby authorized and required to collect
the fee and to pay same to the treasury of the city. All fees so collected and
paid over to the treasury of the city shall be segregated in the fund.
   (E)   The fund shall be used only for the purpose of financing the purchase
of security devices and/or services for the building or buildings housing the
Municipal Court of the city. “Security devices and/or services” shall include
any and all items described in Article 102.017(d-1) of the Tex. Code of
Criminal Procedure.
   (F)   The fund shall be administered by or under the direction of the City
Council.
(Ord. O-2010-09, passed 10-11-2010)
§ 38.06 MUNICIPAL COURT TECHNOLOGY FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby created and established a Municipal Court
Technology Fund, herein known as the “fund,” pursuant to Article 102.0172 of
the Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure.
   (B)   Interest. The fund may be maintained in an interest bearing account
and may be maintained in the general revenue account.
   (C)   Establishment of amount of the fee and assessment and collection.
      (1)   The fee shall be in the amount of $4.00.
      (2)   The fee shall be assessed and collected from the defendant upon
conviction for a misdemeanor offense in the Municipal Court as a cost of court.
A defendant is considered convicted if:
         (a)   Judgment, sentence, or both are imposed on the person;
         (b)   The person is placed on deferred disposition; or
         (c)   the Court defers final disposition or imposition of the judgment
and sentence.
      (3)   The fee shall be collected on convictions for offenses committed on
or after this section is adopted.
      (4)   The Clerk of the Court shall collect the fee and pay the fee to the
municipal treasurer or City Secretary of the city, who shall deposit the fee
into the Municipal Court Technology Fund.
   (D)   Designated use of the fund and administration.
      (1)   The fund shall be used only for the purpose of financing the
purchase of or to maintain technological enhancements for the Municipal Court
of the city. “Technological enhancements” shall include any and all items
described in Article 102.0172(d) of the Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure.
      (2)   The fund shall be administered by or under the direction of the
City Council.
(Ord. O-2010-10, passed 10-11-2010)
**** MUNICIPAL JUDGE ****
§ 38.20 OFFICE OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE CREATED; APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION; OATH.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of judge of the municipal court who
shall have all the powers and authority as granted by state law and the
ordinances of this municipality and shall perform all the duties as prescribed
by the laws of the state and the ordinances of this municipality.
   (B)   The office of municipal judge shall be filled by appointment by the
City Council.
   (C)   Compensation for the office of municipal judge shall be set from time
to time by the City Council.
   (D)   Prior to taking office, the judge of the municipal court shall take
the oath of office required by the Texas Constitution and laws of the state.
§ 38.21 VACANCY.
   In the event of a vacancy in the office of municipal judge, the City Council
may appoint any qualified person temporarily or until the end of the existing
term.
§ 38.22 ALTERNATE JUDGE.
   The City Council may from time to time appoint such qualified individuals as
may be necessary to serve in the office of the judge of the municipal court if
the presiding judge is unavailable, unable, or unwilling to serve, and shall
have the power to set the compensation of the office of acting judge of the
municipal court as may be required. The Mayor may serve as an alternate judge.
No alternate or temporary judge shall serve for a term to exceed 30 days
without reappointment.
§ 38.23 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The judge of the municipal court shall be appointed to serve a term
concurrent with that of the office of Mayor and shall assume the duties of the
office as provided under the laws of the state.
§ 38.24 REMOVAL OF JUDGE.
   The judge of the municipal court may be removed by a majority of the City
Council for incompetency, corruption, misconduct or malfeasance in office,
after due notice and an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense. The
judge of the municipal court may also be removed from office by a City Council
resolution declaring a lack of confidence in the judge, provided that 2/3 of
the City Council vote in favor of such resolution.
§ 38.25 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Any person appointed to the office of municipal judge shall have the
qualifications required by law for municipal judges by the laws of the state,
as the same may be amended from time to time.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal judges, see Tex. Gov't Code §§ 29.004 - 29.007
**** COURT CLERK ****
§ 38.40 OFFICE OF COURT CLERK CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The office of Municipal Court Clerk is hereby created.
   (B)   The Municipal Secretary shall serve as ex officio clerk of the court
and as such shall have and exercise the authority, jurisdiction, and power
conferred by law upon municipal court clerks. The Municipal Secretary is
authorized to appoint such deputy court clerks as may be necessary for the
proper discharge of duties. Any clerk or deputy clerks so appointed shall act
as official clerk of the municipal court and shall perform all acts incident to
such office.
§ 38.41 DUTIES OF COURT CLERK.
   The Court Clerk shall keep minutes of the proceedings of the court, issue
process, and generally perform the duties for the municipal court that a county
clerk performs for a county court.
(Tex. Gov't Code § 29.010(c))
**** JURIES ****
§ 38.50 JURY DUTY PAY.
   Each person serving as a juror in municipal court is entitled to
compensation as set by the City Council for each day or fraction of each day
served as a juror.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER AND WASTEWATER
      
52.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Authority
   
50.02   Purpose
   
50.03   Findings of fact
   
50.04   Definitions
   
50.05   No service guarantee
Deposits, Rates and Charges for Service
   
50.20   Application for services
   
50.21   Tap fees
   
50.22   Security deposits and utility accounts
   
50.23   Rates for water service
   
50.24   Rates for wastewater service
   
50.25   Solid waste service rates
   
50.26   Line extension and street cutting fees
   
50.27   No reduced rates or free service; employee water use
   
50.28   Rate review and change
Billing and Termination of Services
   
50.40   Billing and payment for services
   
50.41   Late charges
   
50.42   Past due notice
   
50.43   Termination of service and charges for disconnection and reconnection
   
50.44   Returned checks
   
50.45   Minors
Enforcement
   
50.60   Violations and notices
   
50.61   Costs and appeals
   
50.62   Cost of abatement constitutes lien
   
50.63   Enforcement officials
 
   
50.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 50.01 AUTHORITY.
   This Title V is adopted pursuant to the police powers and authority given to
cities by the constitution, codes and general laws of the State of Texas.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 50.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this title is to provide for public health and general
welfare, the efficient and effective provision of city services and the
protection of the environment and natural resources of the community. From and
after the passage of this title all residential, business, commercial and
industrial occupancies and uses within the city and its service area shall
conform to the following rules and regulations.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 50.03 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The findings and recitations set out in the preamble of Ordinance O-2010-01
are found to be true and correct and they are hereby adopted by the City
Council and made a part hereof for all purposes.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 50.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section; provided
that, unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title
shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have in common
usage, and so as to give this title its most reasonable application.
   BULKY WASTE. Stoves, refrigerators, water tanks, washing machines,
furniture, used and discarded mattresses and other waste materials other than
construction debris, dead animals, hazardous waste or stable matter with
weights or volumes greater than those allowed for carts.
   BUNDLE. Tree, shrub and brush trimmings or newspaper and magazines securely
tied together forming an easily handled package not exceeding four feet in
length, two and one-half feet in diameter and 35 pounds in weight.
   BUSINESS UNIT. Any premises, locations or entities, public or private,
including all industrial and commercial entities, within the corporate limits
of the city or service area of the city not a residential unit.
   CART. A plastic wheeled cart designed to store residential refuse. (See also
CONTAINER.)
   CITY. The City of Bryson, Texas.
   CONTAINER. Includes a cart, but also shall mean any city approved metal bin
designed to store residential refuse, commercial refuse or industrial refuse.
   CITY'S OPERATOR. The person, firm, corporation, municipal corporation or
political subdivision which the City has designated to operate and maintain the
city’s water system and wastewater system.
   COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL. Shall mean and include any establishment, public
or private, rendering a service, manufacturing a product, offering a product
for sale or any other similar activity, including motels hotels. Apartment
complexes and other such multi-family rental communities shall be considered
commercial.
   CONNECTION. The initial or first connection ("tap") or any subsequent
additional connection of a residential or business unit to the city's water
system.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Waste building materials resulting from construction,
remodeling, repair or demolition operations.
   CONTRACTOR. The person, corporation or partnership performing refuse
collection and disposal under contract with the city.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, firm or corporation receiving city water, wastewater
or solid waste disposal services for a residential or business unit, whether
within the city or outside the city limits.
   DEAD ANIMAL. An animal or portion thereof that has expired from any cause.
   GARBAGE. Accumulation of waste (animal, vegetable and/or other matter) that
results from the preparation, processing, consumption, dealing in, handling,
packing, canning, storage, transportation, decay or decomposition of meats,
fish, fowl, birds, fruits, grains or other animal or vegetable matter
(including, but not by way of limitation, used tin cans and other food
containers; and all putrescible or easily decomposable waste, animal or
vegetable matter which is likely to attract flies or rodents); except (in all
cases) any matter included in the definition of bulky waste, construction
debris, dead animal, hazardous waste, rubbish or stable matter.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste, in any amount, which is defined, characterized or
designated as hazardous by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or
appropriate state agency by or pursuant to federal or state law, or waste, in
any amount, which is regulated under federal or state law, including motor oil,
gasoline, paint and paint cans.
   MASTER METER. The separate connection through which one metering facility
serves other establishments or entities occupying the same building, location
or adjoining property.
   PRODUCER. An occupant of a residential or business unit who generates
refuse.
   REFUSE. Residential refuse, bulky waste, construction debris and stable
matter generated at residential unit, unless the context otherwise requires,
and commercial and industrial refuse.
   RESIDENTIAL REFUSE. All garbage and rubbish generated by a producer at a
residential unit.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A dwelling within the corporate limits or service area of
the city intended for occupancy by a person or group of persons comprising not
more than one family. A dwelling shall be deemed occupied and shall be deemed
by the city to be a separate residential unit for billing and collection
purposes when either water or electrical power services a being supplied
thereto.
   RUBBISH. Waste wood, wood products, tree trimmings, grass cuttings, dead
plants, weeds, leaves, dead trees or branches thereof, chips, shavings,
sawdust, printed matter, paper, pasteboard, rags, straw, used and discarded
clothing, used and discarded shoes and boots, combustible waste pulp and other
products such as are used for packaging or wrapping crockery and glass, ashes,
cinders, floor sweepings, glass, mineral or metallic substances, and any and
all other waste materials not included in the definitions of BULKY WASTE,
CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS, DEAD ANIMALS, GARBAGE, HAZARDOUS WASTE or STABLE MATTER.
   SEPARATE CONNECTION. The individual metering facilities for each residential
or business unit for which city services have been requested or provided,
whether occupied or not.
   STABLE MATTER. Manure and other waste matter normally accumulated in or
about a stable, or any animal, livestock or poultry enclosure, and resulting
from the keeping of animals, poultry or livestock.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 50.05 NO SERVICE GUARANTEE.
   Customers are not guaranteed a specific quantity or pressure of water, or
any specific level of any solid waste, wastewater or other service, for any
purpose whatever; in no instance shall the city be liable for failure or
refusal to furnish water or any particular amount or pressure of water, or any
other service under this Ordinance.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
**** DEPOSITS, RATES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE ****
§ 50.20 APPLICATION FOR SERVICES.
   Each prospective customer desiring water, wastewater and/or garbage service
shall provide appropriate information for billing, accounting and rate
classification purposes in order to obtain such service and shall pay the
applicable tap fees, deposits, and monthly charges as set forth in this
subchapter.   
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 50.21 TAP FEES.
   The following tap fees shall be collected as applicable from the applicant
before the corresponding water or wastewater system tap or connection is made:
 
Water Taps                         Residential       Commercial
Standard 3/4" or 5/8"              $1,000.00         $1,000.00
                                   +                 +
Each additional 1/4" over standard $25.00            $25.00 plus cost of meter,
                                                     materials and labor
Sewer Taps                                           
Standard 4"                        $500.00           $500.00
                                   Plus cost of pipe Plus cost of pipe
 
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 50.22 SECURITY DEPOSITS AND UTILITY ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Deposit required.
      (1)   All new customers of the water and/or sewer utilities shall be
required to pay and maintain a security deposit in the amount of $150.00 at all
times that services are provided in the customer's name. A re-connect fee of
$25.00 must be paid at the time application for re-connection is made.
      (2)   All customers requesting utility service shall personally sign the
application for services and provide verification of name and current address
(proof being in the form of a driver's license or Texas Department of Public
Safety Identification card and Social Security number) for billing.
      (3)   In the event any utility customer's service is disconnected for
late payment, the utility account holder will need to pay the past due amount,
current amount and a reconnect fee to have services reinstated.
      (4)   Security deposits shall remain with the city until termination of
services.
   (B)   Application of Utility Deposits.
      (1)   All utility deposits held with the city shall, in addition to
securing the payment for utility services received, also secure and may be
applied to any other debt or obligation owed the city by the person or entity
having made the utility deposit. The remaining balance of any and all utility
deposits collected by the city for water, wastewater or solid waste disposal
shall be returned to the individual who secured the deposit in his or her name,
at such time as such person terminates such utility service with the city. The
deposit will first be applied to any outstanding utility or solid waste
disposal bills, then to any additional outstanding debts to the city and the
remainder will be returned upon proper request and application. Additional
outstanding debts of the individual seeking return of a utility deposit include
but are not limited to:
         (a)   Other utility services which have been provided under said
person’s name and that have an outstanding balance due and owing to the city;
         (b)   Liens placed by the city upon any property owned by such person;
and
      (2)   No interest shall accrue or be due for any security deposits for
water, wastewater or solid waste disposal.
   (C)   Transfer of services.
      (1)   Any existing customer requesting a transfer of any utilities must
maintain the appropriate deposit for the utility services being transferred.
Any existing deposit, less deficiencies on the existing account, will be
transferred directly to the new account. Any deficiencies in the prior utility
account will also be transferred to the new utility account.
      (2)   No customer will be allowed to transfer and maintain services
without paying all deficiencies on existing or prior utility accounts in full
and having the full deposit for utility services on deposit with the city at
the time of transfer, but not later than the next complete billing cycle at the
transfer location.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 50.23 RATES FOR WATER SERVICE.
   Residential and commercial customers shall be charged the applicable minimum
monthly rate per meter established herein as long as such meter is active,
whether the customer actually uses the services or not; provided that, if meter
is removed or locked at customer's request, the minimum charge will be pro-
rated as of the date of requested termination of services. The following rates,
fees and charges shall be charged and paid for water services furnished by the
city:
RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL RATES (INSIDE CITY LIMITS)
Within City Limits       3/4"- 5/8" Water Meter
            First 2,000 gallons or fractional part thereof: $48.00
            All over 2,000 gallons fixed at $11.75 per 1,000 gallons
RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL RATES (OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS)
Out of City Limits      3/4" - 5/8" Water Meter
            First 2,000 gallons or fractional part thereof: $53.00
            All over 2,000 gallons fixed at $11.75 per 1,000 gallons
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010; Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-13-2014; Ord. O-2024-
07, passed 10-13-2025)
§ 50.24 RATES FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE.
   Residential and commercial shall be charged the applicable minimum monthly
rate per meter established herein as long as such meter is active, whether or
not the customer actually uses the services or not; provided that, if meter is
removed or locked at customer's request, the minimum charge will be pro-rated
as of the date of requested termination of services. The following rates, fees
and charges shall be charged and paid for wastewater services furnished by the
city:
      Residential         First 2,000 gallons or fractional part thereof:
$17.00 per month
                  All over 2,000 gallons fixed at $ 3.50 per 1,000 gallons.
      Apartments         First 2,000 gallons or fractional part thereof: $17.00
per unit
                  All over 2,000 gallons fixed at $3.50 per 1,000 gallons.
      Commercial         First 2,000 gallons or fractional part thereof: $34.64
per month
                  All over 2,000 gallons fixed at $ 3.50 per 1,000 gallons.
      Bryson ISD         First 2,000 gallons or fractional part thereof: $34.64
per month
                  All over 2,000 gallons fixed at $3.50 per 1,000 gallons.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010; Ord. O-2025-08, passed 10-13-2025)
§ 50.25 SOLID WASTE SERVICE RATES.
   The City of Bryson contracts with a private contractor to provide solid
waste services. The following rates are currently charged by the City of Bryson
for solid waste services and may be revised by Ordinance from time to time as
deemed appropriate by Council:
Container size Fee - one collection per week
Container size           Fee - one collection per week
96-gallon cart (poly)  $23.34
   Additional cart    $11.65
2-yard                   $59.14
   Additional 2-yard  $43.73
3-yard                   $80.21
   Additional 3-yard  $58.34
6-yard Commercial        $139.80
8-yard Commercial        $189.09
 
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010; Ord. O-2025-03, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 50.26 LINE EXTENSION AND STREET CUTTING FEES.
   Water and wastewater taps will be made for the base tap fee provided the tap
is made to a water or wastewater line abutting or adjacent to the lot or parcel
to be served (“standard location"). For the purpose of this title, a tap made
on a water or wastewater line located between the boundary line of the property
to be served and the right-of-way line of the street or alley abutting such
lot, or a line located within the right-of-way of such street between the
property boundary line and the traveled, paved or graveled portions of the
street, shall also constitute a tap made at a "standard location". A tap made
at a "standard location" shall be a "standard connection". A "non-standard
location" is any location for a tap to serve any lot, tract or parcel of land
other than at a standard location. A "nonstandard connection" is any tap that
requires work, construction or extensions to be made for the tap, or that is
made at other than a standard location. Additional charges and fees will be
assessed and collected as herein detailed for costs associated with line
extensions and taps made to a nonstandard location.
   (A)   Availability of service. The existence of mains, trunk lines or other
lines, near a property will not constitute an obligation for the city to limit
the tap fee or charge for making a water or wastewater service tap to such
line, where such lines must be tapped at other than a standard location, are
inaccessible due to necessary crossings of streets, highways, drainage channels
and similar barriers, or when cost must be incurred over and above the cost for
making a tap at a standard location. Taps at non-standard locations must be
arranged for with the Director of Public Works in advance of the desired
service date, to permit necessary extensions, crossings or similar
construction.
   (B)   Installation of non-standard connection. Upon the approval of the City
Administration, the owner or developer of a subdivision requiring a non-
standard connection may contract with a qualified contractor for the
installation, construction and extension of any water or wastewater line
necessary to make a non-standard connection or as necessary for the location
for the tap to become a standard location and, in such event, such owner or
developer shall pay the reasonable costs and charges therefore directly to the
contractor and obtain a receipt and release from said contractor. The City
Engineer or Department of Public Works shall inspect such construction and work
to assure it is completed in compliance with the applicable rules and
regulations of the city and the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.
   (C)   Costs. The reasonable costs and expenses for installing, constructing
and extending any such water or wastewater line of the city to provide a tap at
a non-standard location, or to extend such lines to a standard location, shall
be charged and collected by the city, if such costs are not paid directly by an
owner/developer pursuant to (B) above. Such additional costs and expenses shall
be equal to the difference between the cost of making the tap at a standard
location and the cost of making the tap at the non-standard location, or, as
the case may be, the difference between the cost of making the tap at a
standard location and the costs incurred for the work and construction to
extend the lines to a point or location that is a standard location for the
tap.
   (D)   Payment of line extension fee. When a water or wastewater line
extension charge is required, the city may at its option require the owner
being furnished the line to:
      (1)   Deposit, in advance, the estimated costs for construction of the
water or wastewater line that is estimated to be costs additional to a standard
connection;
      (2)   Post a bond sufficient to cover the total estimated costs of line
extension.
   (E)   Line Extension Fees Outside City Limits. No line extensions will be
allowed outside the city limits without an express resolution of the City
Council of the City of Bryson.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 50.27 NO REDUCED RATES OR FREE SERVICE; EMPLOYEE WATER USE.
   (A)   All customers receiving services from the city shall be subject to the
provisions of this title and shall be charged the rated established in this
chapter, and no reduced rate or free service shall be furnished to any
customer. It is specifically provided, however, that this provision shall not
prohibit the city, upon good cause shown, from establishing reasonable
classifications of customers for which rates differing from the rates stated
herein may be adopted, and that nothing contained herein shall be construed to
prevent the city from furnishing water services to special projects or other
establishments at a bulk rate if deemed advisable by the city.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
   (B)   No free water service shall be allowed. City employees’ water use is
included as a part of their salary as outlined in the City of Bryson’s
Personnel Policy.
   (C)   Should the city or any of its agencies or instrumentalities make use
of the services and facilities of the waterworks system, payment shall
therefore be made according to the rate herein prescribed.
   (D)   Retired city employees’ water bill is included as part of their
retirement package, as outlined in the City of Bryson’s Personnel Policy.
(Ord. 127, passed 7-8-1985; Ord. 188, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 50.28 RATE REVIEW AND CHANGE.
   Rates may be reviewed and changed from time to time by ordinance, but not
more than once per year.
**** BILLING AND TERMINATION OF SERVICES ****
§ 50.40 BILLING AND PAYMENT FOR SERVICES.
   Bills for water, wastewater and solid waste services shall be mailed on or
about the first day of each month for the services provided during the
immediate preceding month.
   (A)   Due date. All bills for water, wastewater and solid waste collection
services are due on or before the tenth day of each month (the "due date"). The
failure of the customer to receive any such bill shall in no way relieve the
customer of the duty to pay for the services rendered on or before the due
date.
   (B)   Special provision for account holders over age 60. Under the Texas
Utilities Code, persons 60 or older with a utility account will have a due date
of the 25th of the month before late charges will be applied.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 50.41 LATE CHARGES.
   If payment of any bill is not made by the due date, the city shall charge a
ten percent late fee for water, wastewater and solid waste collection services.
This will be added to the billing.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 50.42 PAST DUE NOTICE.
   If payment of any bill is unpaid by the due date, a past due notice
reflecting the balance due plus late fees will be mailed on or about the 12th
day of the month. Notice of termination date will be shown and any accounts for
water, wastewater and solid waste collection services which are left unpaid as
of the termination date will be subject to disconnection of services.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 50.43 TERMINATION OF SERVICE AND CHARGES FOR DISCONNECTION AND RECONNECTION.
   (A)   Termination for Delinquency. The city shall have the right to and may
terminate water, wastewater and solid waste collection services to any
customer, including disconnecting the supply of water, at any time after the
termination date as noted on the past due bill.
   (B)   Reconnection charges.  A $25.00 charge will be assessed as a service
fee for each reconnection requiring personnel to approach the residence or
business unit for reconnection. Such fee must be paid at the time past due
monies are tendered, and prior to any reconnection or additional services being
provided.
   (C)   Termination at owner’s request. Whenever a customer who is not
delinquent in the payment of any bill requests that water service be
temporarily discontinued, he or she shall notify the city in writing at least
two days prior to the date he or she desires service discontinued. There will
be a $25.00 reconnect fee payable at the time the customer desires services to
continue.
   (D)   Termination due to a nuisance or emergency. The city reserves the
right to terminate services at anytime with or without notice in the case of an
imminent threat to the public health, safety and welfare constituting a
nuisance or emergency circumstance that mandates the disconnection of services.
If the city disconnects due to a nuisance or emergency circumstance within the
control of the property owner, the city will notify the property owner as
provided in §
50.60 of this chapter.
   (E)   Delinquent accounts.  Any residence or property where utility services
are requested to be provided where a deficient account is still outstanding
from a previous customer shall not be reconnected in a different name than the
account was previously connected under unless the person requesting utility
services demonstrates that the person whose name the account was previously
billed to is no longer a resident of the property or in control of the property
without paying the deficiencies on the account.
      (1)   New owners of property or new residence of a leasehold shall not be
responsible for the delinquent utility accounts of a prior owner or leaser who
has vacated the premises.
      (2)   No customer may establish a new utility account in his or her name
who has an outstanding deficiency from any previous utility account held by the
city without paying all deficiencies in addition to the deposit for the new
utility account.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 50.44 RETURNED CHECKS.
   A returned check fee of $25.00 shall be charged on each check returned to
the city without payment. Accounts shall be considered delinquent if a check
was tendered for payment of the account and upon the sending of notice from the
city of the return of check, the account holder shall have ten days from the
date of the letter to tender payment by cash, money order or cashier's check
for the balance of the sum paid by check and the returned check fee or services
shall be terminated as provided for all delinquent accounts.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 50.45 MINORS.
   No account may be held in the name of a person who is under the age of 18
years unless the minor requesting services provides adequate evidence that the
minor has been emancipated through marriage or other legal means.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
**** ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 50.60 VIOLATIONS AND NOTICES.
   (A)   If an officer charged with the enforcement of this Title V shall
determine that a person has violated any provision of this title, such officer
may issue a citation.
   (B)   If an officer charged with the enforcement of this title shall
determine that a situation exists which immediately affects or threatens the
health, safety and well-being of the general public, and that immediate action
is necessary, such officer may take such action as shall be necessary,
including issuing citations for violations of the terms and provisions hereof
to the owner and/or occupant of the property upon which such condition exists,
as may be deemed appropriate and necessary.
   (C)   If an officer charged with enforcement of this title determines a
situation constitutes an immediate threat to the public health, safety and
welfare, and the owner or occupant of the property is absent or fails to
immediately remedy the violation, the City Council may, at a regular session or
at an emergency session called for the purpose of considering the issue, upon
evidence heard, determine that an emergency exists and order such action as may
be required to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   (D)   If any owner or occupant shall fail or refuse to remedy any of the
conditions prohibited by this title within seven days after notice to do so,
the city may terminate services.
   (E)   Notices required pursuant to this title shall be in writing. Such
notices may be served upon such owner and/or occupant as follows: in person by
an officer or employee of the city; by letter addressed to such or occupant at
his/her post office address; or, if personal service may not be had, or the
owner or occupant’s address be not known, then notice may be given by
publishing a brief summary of such order at least once in the official
newspaper of the city or by posting a notice on or near the front door of each
building on the property upon which the violation relates, or, if no building
exists, by posting notice on a placard attached to a stake driven into the
ground on the property to which the violation relates. Notices of termination
of services for non-payment will be noted on monthly bill.
   (F)   If an owner is mailed a bill in accordance with division (E) above and
the United States Postal Service returns the notice as "refused" or "unclaimed"
the validity of the notice is not affected, and the bill is considered as
delivered.
   (G)   Notices of nuisances provided by mail or by posting as set forth in
division (E) may provide for year round abatement of the nuisance and inform
the owner that should the owner commit any other violation of the same kind
that pose a danger to the public health and safety on or before the first
anniversary of the date of the notice, the city without further notice may
abate the violation at the owner's expense and assess the costs against the
property.
   (H)   Persons in violation of this title or causing or creating a prohibited
nuisance in the presence of a person authorized to enforce this title may be
cited or a complaint filed for such violation without notice of the violation,
or warning, and such citation or complaint shall be filed in the Municipal
Court of the City of Bryson.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 50.61 COSTS AND APPEALS.
   In addition to any other remedy provided in this title and cumulative
thereto, the Code Compliance Officer, after giving to the owner of the property
seven days notice in writing, as provided in §
50.60 above, may cause any of the work or improvements mentioned in this title
to be done at the expense of the city, and charge the utility bill of the
property on which such work or improvements are done, and cause all of the
actual cost to the city to be assessed on the real estate or lot on which such
expenses occurred; provided, that the owner of any such real estate may appeal
to the City Council from the order of the Code Enforcement Officer by filing a
written statement with the Code Compliance Officer within seven days after
receipt of the notice provided for above, stating that such real estate
complied with the provision of this title before the expiration of a seven-day
period. The City Council shall set a date, within 30 days from the date of
appeal, for hearing the appeal to determine whether the real estate complied
with the provisions of this title before the expiration of such seven-day
period. The authority of the Code Compliance Officer to proceed to cause such
work to be done shall not be suspended while an appeal from the order is
pending. If it shall be determined by the City Council that the premises
complied with the provisions of this title before the expiration of the seven-
day period, then no personal liability of the owner shall arise nor shall any
lien be created against the premises upon which such work was done.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 50.62 COST OF ABATEMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   Cumulative of the city's remedy by fine, as set forth herein, the city may
do such work or cause the same to be done to remedy such condition to remove
such matter from such owner's premises at the city's expense and charge the
same to the utility bill of such property and assess the same against the real
estate or lot or lots upon which such expense is incurred.
   (A)   Expenditures plus 12% per annum interest on the expenditures from the
date of such payment by the city shall be added to the next billing cycle for
utility bills for the real estate or lot or lots, if not already paid. Payment
shall be due and payable in full by the owner or occupant at the time of
payment of such utility bill. If the property is unoccupied, no utilities shall
be furnished to the property where the work occurred until such obligation, as
herein set out, payable to the city for abatement of any nuisance described
herein is paid in full.
   (B)   Upon filing with the county clerk of Jack County, Texas, of a
statement by the City Secretary or designee of such expense, the city shall
have a privileged lien upon said real estate or lot or lots, second only to tax
liens and liens for street improvements, to secure the expenditure so made and
ten percent per annum interest on the amount from the date of such payment so
made by the city.
   (C)   The city may, additionally, institute suit and recover such expenses
and foreclose such lien in any court of competent jurisdiction, and the
statement so filed with the County Clerk or a certified copy thereof shall be
prima facie proof of the amount expended in any such work or improvements to
remedy such condition or remove any such matter.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 50.63 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   The civil and criminal provisions of this Title V shall be enforced by the
persons or agencies designated by the city, including, but not limited to, the
City of Bryson Police Department, the Building Official, and the Code
Compliance Officer. It shall be a violation of this title to interfere with a
Code Compliance Officer, or other person authorized to enforce the provisions
of this title in the performance of his or her duties.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this title, or
shall fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, within
the city limits shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall be liable for a
fine not to exceed the sum of $2,000.00. Each day the violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense. Such penalty shall be in addition to all the
other remedies provided herein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to receive water, wastewater or solid waste
collection service from the city and fail to pay the fees and charges for such
service or services. It shall be prima facie evidence that a delinquent
customer is in violation of this section, if the service fee or charges remain
unpaid 30 days after receiving written notice of such delinquency. Conviction
of the offense of failure to pay a service fee or charge shall be a misdemeanor
subject to a fine of not less than $200.00 nor more than $2,000.00. Each day in
violation shall be deemed a separate offense and subject to the penalty herein
provided.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND WASTEWATER
Section
Water and Wastewater Service
   
51.01   Mandatory connection to city system
   
51.02   Application for water connections
   
51.03   Connections and taps to water and wastewater systems
   
51.04   Interconnections
Waterworks System
   
51.20   Damage or injury to waterworks system
   
51.21   Repair of damages
Industrial Waste; Sanitary Sewer
   
51.35   Definitions
   
51.36   Use of public sewers
   
51.37   Payment for industrial waste discharges
   
51.38   Permits for discharge of industrial waste
   
51.39   Tampering, damaging and the like
   
51.40   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
51.41   Authority to disconnect service
Miscellaneous Water Provisions
   
51.60   Emergency medical team; funds
   
51.61   Commercial water hauler customers
   
51.62   Landlords of rental property
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   For provisions concerning rates, billing and enforcement, see
Chapter 50
**** WATER AND WASTEWATER SERVICE ****
§ 51.01 MANDATORY CONNECTION TO CITY SYSTEM.
   (A)   Except as provided otherwise in this title, no building, tract of land
or structure in an area of the city for which water service is available shall
be occupied for residential, commercial, industrial or other such purposes
unless such buildings or structures are connected by a separate connection to
the city water system, unless specifically excepted herein. Property that abuts
a street, road or other public way in which a public water supply is located
and deemed to have access to the city water system.
   (B)   Each residential unit and business unit, and any additional
residential unit and business unit, within the city shall be connected by
separate connection to the city water system as soon as city water service is
available to such unit, unless specifically exempted herein.
   (C)   Any two or more business or commercial units that are found to be
obtaining water service through a single meter shall be required to pay the
base amount according to the meter size times the number of units, plus the per
thousand gallon charge as per the rate schedule in affect at that time. Any
persons receiving water through a joint sharing of a single meter without the
consent of the city must pay the cost of connecting an additional meter and may
be disconnected from the system should either refuse to be responsible for
connection through a single meter to each individual lot.
   (D)   Any residential unit within the city being served by a privately-owned
water well on the effective date of this title shall be connected to the city
water system by a separate connection at such time as the well fails to meet
permit or department of health requirements or other regulatory statutes or
regulations of the state.
   (E)   Each business unit within the city shall be connected by a separate
connection to the city water system as soon as the city water service is
available to such unit, unless permission is granted by the city administration
to do so otherwise.
   (F)   Any commercial or industrial establishments or entities located within
a single building or upon a single property and served by a master meter on the
effective date of this title may elect to continue to receive water service
through such master meter. All new premises seeking to receive service from a
master meter must receive permission from the city administration.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 51.02 APPLICATION FOR WATER CONNECTIONS.
   Each person desiring water service shall be required to complete an
application for such service and pay such fees as are established by ordinance.
No service shall be rendered until such fees are paid, and application
received.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 51.03 CONNECTIONS AND TAPS TO WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Certification. Connections shall not be made to either the city water
or the wastewater system until the city's operator or other party designated by
the City Council has certified that the respective system or applicable portion
thereof is adequate and operational. Water or wastewater service shall not be
provided to any residential or business unit not in compliance with rules and
regulations promulgated by the Texas Department of Health, the Texas Commission
on Environmental Quality, as set out in the Texas Water Code or as otherwise
required by statute or regulation.
   (B)   Service Access. Upon application for connection to the water or
wastewater system the applicant shall grant an easement of ingress and egress
to and from the meter or point of service for such installation, maintenance
and repair as the city, in its judgment, may deem necessary. Taps and
connections will not be made when, in the opinion of the city's operator, the
work area is obstructed by building materials and debris or the work area is
not completed to finished grade. When sidewalks, driveways or other
improvements have been constructed prior to application for service, such
application shall be construed and accepted as a waiver of a claim for damages
to such improvements resulting from the reasonable actions of the city's
operator in installation of the customer's connection.
   (C)   City property. All meters, fittings, boxes, valves and appurtenances
installed by city personnel shall remain the property of the city. City
maintenance of the water service ends at the customer side of the connection to
the water meter itself. City maintenance of the wastewater service ends at the
tap, or point of connection, of the lateral line into the city wastewater line.
   (D)   Connections. All connections to the city water system and/or
wastewater system shall be made by the city's operator unless specified
otherwise by the City Council. No person, other than the properly authorized
agents of the city, shall be permitted to tap or make any connections with the
mains, distribution or collection lines of the city's water system, or
wastewater system, except for emergency fire fighting purposes, or make any
repairs or additions to or alterations in any meter box, tap, pipe, or other
fixture connected with the water service except by the written permission of
the City Council. No new dual or multiple connections (being more than one user
on a single meter) shall be permitted without written permission of the City
Administration.
   (E)   Plan approval required.  
      (1)   Each applicant for a connection shall within ten days prior to
payment of tap fees submit to the city operator the following information:
         (a)   One set of drawings showing details of building plumbing, site
plumbing and the location, size and number of proposed connections to the
city's water system and/or wastewater system; and
         (b)   A general description of the type of proposed establishment.
      (2)   The city's operator or other party designated by the City Council
shall review the information presented and may approve or reject the
application, or request that further information be submitted prior to approval
of the application. The applicant shall be notified in writing as to the basis
for rejection. Failure to construct the facilities in accordance with approved
drawings shall not constitute a basis for denial of city water and/or
wastewater services. If the application information is not timely made, the
city shall not be held responsible for delays in the installation of any water
or wastewater connection. Payment of tap fees to the city prior to the approval
of plans shall not constitute approval of said plans or approval for service as
set forth herein; any unauthorized connection or connections may be removed at
the expense of the person or firm causing such connection or connections to be
made.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 51.04 INTERCONNECTIONS.
   Interconnections or cross connection of the city's water or wastewater
system, whether directly or through the customer's private system to another
source of water or otherwise, is strictly prohibited. Initial customers shall
construct, and each customer shall maintain, water connections and
appurtenances so as to avoid infiltration of any substance into the city water
system. City personnel shall have access to all customer water and wastewater
line connections and appurtenances within reasonable time periods to inspect
for suspected unauthorized connections. The city reserves the right to
immediately and without notice disconnect water services to any customer whose
internal private system has been found to be interconnected or cross connected,
and to assess against the customer such penalties as are provided by law and
penalties provided herein in addition to any charges necessary to repair the
damaged or contaminated portion of the system.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
**** WATERWORKS SYSTEM ****
§ 51.20 DAMAGE OR INJURY TO WATERWORKS SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way, to intentionally or
carelessly break, deface or in any manner damage, injure or destroy any
hydrant, standpipe, lock box or other property belonging to the city or
belonging to others, and used in connection with the waterworks system of the
city. No person other than a duly authorized agent of the city shall remove,
repair, or tamper with, or in any way interfere with the city's meter boxes,
meters, lock boxes, water service lines, wastewater service lines, or other
water or wastewater system appurtenances. The city reserves the right to
immediately and without notice remove the meter or disconnect water service to
any customer whose meter has been tampered with and to assess actual repair
charges to the customer plus a damage fee of $50.00.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 51.21 REPAIR OF DAMAGES.
   (A)   All meters, fittings, boxes, valves and appurtenances installed by
city personnel shall remain the property of the city. The city reserves the
right on 24-hour notice and no appeal being filed, to remove the meter or
disconnect water service to any customer whose meter or lock box has been
tampered with and to assess actual repair charges to the customer plus a damage
fee of $50.00. As necessary or advisable to protect the public health or the
operation and function of the city's water or wastewater system, the city
further reserves the right and authority to proceed immediately and without
notice to disconnect, or to repair when and as necessary and appropriate, any
meter, pipe, line or other appurtenance connected to the city water or
wastewater system.
   (B)   (1)   Failure to repair or failure to pay for repairs performed by the
city shall constitute cause for the city to terminate services to the customer
charged with the repairs. The city requires each customer to "CALL BEFORE YOU
DIG" so the Water Department will be able to locate lines for the customer.
Repair charges will be assessed to the customer if NO attempt is made to
contact the city Water Department before digging and damage occurs. Repair
charges are due within ten days from the date of invoice and are as follows:
         (a)   Labor charges. Regular time for repairs needed during normal
business hours. After 5:00 p.m. and weekends - time and one/half.
         (b)   Equipment rental. Actual cost to city.
      (2)   If not paid within ten days from the date of invoice, the city
reserves the right to immediately and without notice remove the meter or
disconnect water service until all repair charges are paid in full.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
**** INDUSTRIAL WASTE; SANITARY SEWER ****
§ 51.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Public Works Director or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   B.O.D. (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen by weight,
expressed in mg/l, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter
under standard laboratory conditions for five days at a temperature of 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys to the building sewer beginning
five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the sewer or other
place of disposal (also called HOUSE LATERAL and HOUSE CONNECTION).
   CITY. The City of Bryson, Texas or any authorized person acting in its
behalf.
   C.O.D. (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). A measure of the oxygen consuming capacity,
expressed in mg/l, of inorganic and organic matter present in water or
wastewater. It is expressed as the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical
oxidant in a specific test. It does not differentiate between stable and
unstable organic matter and thus does not necessarily correlate with
biochemical oxygen demand.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Water-borne wastewater normally discharging into the
sanitary conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels),
office buildings, factories and institutions, which may or may not contain
storm water and industrial wastes.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable wastes and residue from the preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food; and from the handling, processing, storage and
sale of food products and produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE CHARGE. The charge made on those persons who discharge
industrial wastes into the city’s sewerage system.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Water-borne solids, liquids or gaseous wastes resulting
from and discharged, permitted to flow or escaping from the industrial,
manufacturing or food processing operation or process, or from the development
of any natural resource, or any mixture of these with water or domestic
wastewater, or distinct from normal domestic wastewater.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l). The same as parts per million and is a weight-
to-volume ratio; the milligram-per-liter value multiplied by the factor 8.34
shall be equivalent to pounds per million gallons of water.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, ditch, lake or other body of
surface or ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Normal wastewater for the city in which the
average concentration of suspended solids and five-day B.O.D. is established at
not more than (blank) mg/l of each.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, industry, municipal or private corporation,
association, governmental agency or other entity and agents, servants or
employees.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm (base 10) of the hydrogen ion
concentration expressed in grams per liter.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
shall be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particles greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties shall have
equal rights and the use of (sewer) which is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys domestic wastewater or industrial
wastes or a combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground
waters or unpolluted wastes are not intentionally passed.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, wastewater or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in any quantity of flow, exceeds for
any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average
24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
latest edition at the time of analysis of Standard Methods for the Examination
of Water and Wastewater as prepared, approved and published jointly by the
American Public Health Association, the American Water Works Association, and
the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage but excludes domestic wastewater and polluted industrial wastes.
   STORM WATER. Rainfall or any other forms of precipitation.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Water and Wastewater Superintendent of the City of
Bryson or his or her duly authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which are largely
removable by a laboratory filtration device.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER OR WASTE. Water or waste containing none of the following:
free or emulsified grease or oil; acids or alkalis; phenols or other substances
producing taste or odor in receiving water; toxic or poisonous substances in
suspension, colloidal state or solution; and noxious or otherwise obnoxious,
odorous gases. It shall contain not more than ten mg/l each of suspended solids
and B.O.D. The color shall not exceed 50 color units as measured by the
Platinum-Cobolt method of determination as specified in Standard Methods.
   WASTEWATER. A combination of the water-carried waste from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments; together with
the ground, surface and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. All facilities for collection, pumping, treating and
disposing of wastewater and industrial wastes.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any city-owned facilities, devices and
structures used for receiving and treating wastewater, industrial waste and
sludge from the city wastewater facilities.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge on all users of the public sewer
system whose wastes do not exceed in strength the concentration values
established as representative of normal wastewater.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or human-made channel in which a flow of water
occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 80, passed 10-9-1972)
§ 51.36 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharges any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any storm water, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial
process waters to any sanitary sewer. Storm water and all other unpolluted
drainage shall be discharged to the sewers as are specifically designated as
combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural watercourse approved by the
approving authority. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process water may
be discharges, on approval of the approving authority, to a storm sewer,
combined sewer or natural watercourse;
      (3)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150ºF/65ºC, or
any discharge which causes the temperature of the total wastewater treatment
plant influent to increase at a rate of 10°F or more per hour, or a combined
total increase to a plant influent temperature of 110°F;
      (4)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150ºF, and 0°C to
65ºC;
      (5)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the approving authority;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing objectionable or toxic substances,
or wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to a degree that any such
material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works
exceeds the limits established by the approving authority for the materials;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing obnoxious, toxic or poisonous
solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any wastewater
treatment process, constitute any hazard to humans or animals, or create any
hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant, including but
not limited to:
         (a)   Any cyanide greater than 1.0 mg/l;
Element Mg/l
Element          Mg/l
Arsenic          .05
Barium           5.0
Boron            1.0
Cadmium          .02
Chromium (total) 5.0
Copper           1.0
Lead             .10
Manganese        1.0
Mercury          .005
Nickel           1.0
Selenium         .02
Silver           .10
Zinc             5.0
 
         (b)   Any fluoride other than that contained on the public water
supply;
         (c)   Concentrations of the following heavy metals greater than the
mg/l amounts indicated below:
         (d)   Any chlorides greater than 250 mg/l; or
         (e)   All other heavy metals and toxic materials, including but not
limited to the following, shall be excluded from the wastewater system unless a
permit specifying the conditions of pretreatment, concentrations, volumes and
the like is obtained from the city:
            1.   Antimony;
            2.   Molybdenum;
            3.   Rhenium;
            4.   Beryllium;
            5.   Tin;
            6.   Strontium;
            7.   Bismuth;
            8.   Uranylion;
            9.   Tellurium;
            10.   Cobalt;
            11.   Pesticides;
            12.   Herbicides;
            13.   Fungicides; and
            14.   Any substance causing an excessive chemical oxygen demand
(C.O.D.).
      (9)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel at the wastewater facilities;
      (10)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operations of the wastewater works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, hair and fleshing, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk
containers and the like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders; lime
slurry, lime residues, slops, chemical residues, paint residues or bulk solids;
      (11)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols, hydrogen sulfide or other
taste and odor producing substances, in a concentration exceeding limits which
may be established by the approving authority, as necessary, after treatment of
the composite wastewater, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or
other public agencies having jurisdiction for the discharge to the receiving
waters;
      (12)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half-life or
concentration, as may exceed limits established by the approving authority, in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (13)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentration of inert suspended solids greater than 250
mg/l (such as, but not limited to: Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime
residues) or of dissolved solids greater than (blank) mg/l (such as, but not
limited to: sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but no limited to: dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual B.O.D. (greater than the amount established in §
51.35 above), chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine demand in quantities as to
constitute a significant load on the wastewater treatment works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein shall be regulated to equalize the flow and/or
concentration to levels acceptable to the city if the waste can cause damage to
collection facilities, impair the treatment process, incur treatment costs
exceeding those for normal wastewater or render the waste unfit for stream
disposal or industrial use.
      (14)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to a degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
      (15)   Except in quantities or concentrations, or with provisions as
stipulated herein, it shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or
individual, to discharge water or wastes to the sanitary sewer that:
         (a)   Can deposit grease or oil in the sewer lines in a manner as to
clog the sewers;
         (b)   Can overload skimming and grease handling equipment;
         (c)   Are not amenable to bacterial action and will, therefore, pass
to the receiving waters without being affected by normal wastewater treatment
processes; or
         (d)   Can have deleterious effects on the treatment process due to the
excessive quantities.
      (16)   The public sewer system will be used, whenever the system is
available, by all persons discharging any wastewater, industrial waste, other
polluted liquids or unpolluted waters or liquids; unless an exception is
granted by the approving authority; and
      (17)   No person shall deposit or discharge any wastewater, industrial
waste, other polluted liquids or unpolluted waters or liquids on public or
private property, in or adjacent to any natural outlet or any natural
watercourse, or in any storm sewer within the city, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the city, without the approval of the approving authority. In
providing approval, the approving authority will verify that the wastes will
receive suitable treatment within the provisions of federal, state or local
laws, regulations and/or ordinances, before discharge.
   (B)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharges, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in division (A) above, and which, in the judgment of
the approving authority, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a health hazard or public nuisance, the approving
authority may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the cost of handling and treating the
wastes under the provisions of §
51.37 below.
      (2)   If the approving authority permits the pretreatment or equalization
of waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the approving authority, and subject to
the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (C)   Grease, oil and sand traps shall be provided for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that the traps shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All traps shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the approving authority and shall be located as
to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (D)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (E)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together with the
necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when
required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the approving authority. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or
her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (F)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided,
or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
health, life, limb and property. (The particular analyses involved will
determine whether a 24-hour composite sample from all outfalls of a premise is
appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but
not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24-hour
composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab
samples.)
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the
industrial concern, as set forth in §
51.37 below; provided that the waste control order (discharge permits), State
Water Quality Board Orders, and other federal, state and local laws are not
violated.
(Ord. 80, passed 10-9-1972)
§ 51.37 PAYMENT FOR INDUSTRIAL WASTE DISCHARGES.
   (A)   If the approving authority determines that an industrial waste is
acceptable under the discretionary powers given him or her under §
51.36(B) and (E) above, the contributor of the industrial waste shall be
required to make payment of a charge to cover the cost of handling and treating
the wastes. As permitted by §
51.36(G) above, if the city accepts the waste, the city and the industrial
concern contributing the waste shall enter into an arrangement or agreement
whereby the city will accept the waste and the industrial concern will make
payment therefore by one of the methods set forth in divisions (B) or (C)
below.
   (B)   (1)   If the volume or character of the waste to be accepted by the
city is such that wastewater collection, pumping, handling, treating or
disposal facilities of the city must be improved, expanded, enlarged or added
to in order to take care of the waste, then prior to the acceptance, the city
and the industrial concern shall make full payment for all added costs the city
may incur due to acceptance of the waste.
      (2)   Added costs to the city shall include:
         (a)   Amortization of all capital outlay for handling and treating the
waste, including new capital outlay and the proportionate part of the value of
the existing system used in handling and treating the waste. The amortization
shall be completed in a one–year period and payments shall include all debt
service costs; and
         (b)   All operation and maintenance costs including salaries and
wages, power costs, costs of chemicals and supplies, proper allowances for
maintenance, depreciation, overhead and office expense.
   (C)   If the volume or character of the waste to be accepted by the city is
such that it will not overload the sewage collection, pumping, handling,
treating or disposal facilities of the city, then prior to the acceptance, the
city and the industrial concern shall enter into an agreement whereby the
industrial concern shall make payment of an industrial waste charge to be
determined as set forth below.
      (1)   The industrial charge shall be calculated by the following formula:
BOD= five-day BOD in mg/l, and SS = Suspended Solids in mg/l, as defined
elsewhere, and shall be determined from a 24-hour composite sample.
         (a)   The determination of flow, BOD and suspended materials shall be
made by an independent firm or laboratory selected by the city.
         (b)   The time of selection of the sample shall be at least on an
annual basis to adjust the industrial charge to reflect the current costs of
wastewater treatment.
         (c)   The applicable surcharge determined by the tests shall be
retroactive for two billing periods and shall continue for six billing periods
unless subsequent tests determine that the surcharge should be further
increased.
      (2)   The basis for determining the surcharge shall be reviewed annually
and shall be adjusted to reflect any increase or decrease in wastewater
treatment costs based on the previous year’s experience.
      (3)   Billing shall be by the month and shall be shown as a separate item
on the regular bill for water and sewer charges, and shall be paid monthly in
accordance with existing practices.
(Ord. 80, passed 10-9-1972)
§ 51.38 PERMITS FOR DISCHARGE OF INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   (A)   No person:
      (1)   After the effective date of this subchapter, not now so doing,
shall deposit or discharge any industrial waste into any sanitary sewer which
leads to any of the city’s treatment plants, or deposit or discharge any waste
stipulated in §
51.36(A) above without first obtaining a permit therefore; or
      (2)   After the effective date of this subchapter, shall discharge any
industrial waste into any sanitary sewer which leads to any of the city’s
sewage treatment plants or deposit or discharge any waste stipulated in §
51.36(A) above without first obtaining a permit therefor.
   (B)   Permits granted after the effective date of this subchapter will be
issued only after the following conditions are met:
      (1)   New persons.
         (a)   Formal application is submitted on a form issued by the
approving authority.
         (b)   Where applicable, pretreatment facilities and/or flow regulating
devices approved by the approving authority have been installed.
         (c)   Estimated amount and strength of any wastes have been agreed
upon by both parties. When a discharger discharges 20,000 gallons or more
daily, strength shall be based on actual samples from the point or points of
discharge.
         (d)   Agreement forms have been completed by the discharger agreeing
to payment of any surcharges as required and/or agreeing to the installation of
pretreatment facilities, and operation and maintenance of any pretreatment
facilities where applicable.
         (e)   All new dischargers shall provide a sampling point subject to
approval of the approving authority.
      (2)   Existing persons.
         (a)   Formal application is submitted on a form issued by approving
authority within 120 days after the effective date of this subchapter.
         (b)   Where applicable, plans and specifications for pretreatment
facilities have been approved by the approving authority.
         (c)   Estimated amount and strength of any wastes have been agreed
upon by both parties. When a discharger discharges 20,000 gallons or more
daily, strength shall be based on actual samples from the point or points of
discharge.
         (d)   Agreement forms have been completed by the discharger agreeing
to payment of any surcharges as required and/or agreeing to the installation of
pretreatment facilities by (date), and operation and maintenance of any
pretreatment facilities where applicable.
(Ord. 80, passed 10-9-1972)
§ 51.39 TAMPERING, DAMAGING AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is part of the sewage works. Any person
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 80, passed 10-9-1972) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.40 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind
and source of discharge to the sewers, waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises, established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for any injury or death of
the city employees; and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by city employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and/or sampling operation, except as such may be
caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as
required in §
51.36(E) above.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewerage system lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 80, passed 10-9-1972)
§ 51.41 AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT SERVICE.
   In the following situations, the city shall retain the right to terminate
water and wastewater disposal service and immediately disconnect an industrial
customer from the system:
   (A)   Where acids or chemicals damaging to sewer lines or treatment process
are released to the sewer causing rapid deterioration of these structures or
interfering with proper conveyance and treatment of wastewater;
   (B)   When the customer discharges industrial waste or wastewater that is in
violation of the permit issued by the approving authority;
   (C)   Where any governmental agency informs the city that the effluent from
the wastewater treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted for
discharge to a water course, and it is found that the customer is delivering
wastewater to the city’s system that cannot be sufficiently treated or requires
treatment that is not provided by the city as normal domestic treatment. In
this instance, the city shall immediately supply the customer with the
governmental agency’s report and provide the customer with all pertinent
information.
      (1)   The customer’s water and wastewater lines will then be disconnected
when the city is informed that it can no longer continue to release their
effluent for discharge to a watercourse.
      (2)   The customer’s water and wastewater treatment service shall remain
disconnected until the time as he or she has provided additional pretreatment
facilities designed to remove the objectionable characteristics from his or her
industrial wastes; and
   (D)   Where the owner delivers his or her wastewater at an uncontrolled,
variable rate in sufficient quantity that it causes an imbalance in the
wastewater treatment system.
(Ord. 80, passed 10-9-1972)
**** MISCELLANEOUS WATER PROVISIONS ****
§ 51.60 EMERGENCY MEDICAL TEAM; FUNDS
   (A)   Each household and business listed with a water meter will be billed
each month for the sum of $4 to offset the expenses of the Emergency Medical
Team (EMT).
   (B)   Billing will appear on the water bill in the “misc.” box and be marked
“EMT”.
   (C)   Apartment houses and trailer parks will be billed as to the number of
units in each one.
   (D)   Billing will begin with the April 15 billing date and be collected
same as water and sewer bills.
(Ord. 121, passed 4-4-1983; Ord. 140, passed 5-4-1991)
§ 51.61 COMMERCIAL WATER HAULER CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      WATER HAULER. Any person, organization or company that engages in the
hauling of water by means of a tank truck with a tank size equal to or greater
than 50 barrels.
   (B)   Deposit requirement. A deposit of $1,000 is required to be paid to the
city from any water hauler wishing to use the privileges of the water system of
the city. Deposit and utility application are required prior to the approval of
any water hauler usage of the water system of the city.
   (C)   Billing and collecting. Water usage will be billed at the current
water haul rate in effect when water is sold. Usage will be figured one of two
ways, depending on location of water:
      (1)   Metered location. City will read meters and usage will be figured
from the last reading.
      (2)   Un-metered location. Water hauler is required to provide to city a
load ticket for each load of water hauled. City will figure usage of water
based on number of truck loads and size of truck tank.
   (D)   General. Water bills will be mailed and payments will be due in
accordance with current billing procedures already established for residential
and commercial customer accounts.
(Ord. 184, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 51.62 LANDLORDS OF RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LANDLORD. The owner, manager or authorized agent of record of property
used for residential rental housing.
      RENTER or OCCUPANT. The person or persons living in a rental unit with no
ownership rights to the property.
   (B)   Procedure. When an occupant has moved out of a rental unit and already
closed their water account with the city, and the landlord wishes to have the
water connected for the purpose of cleaning the rental unit, the following
procedure is hereby established.
      (1)   Landlord must notify City Hall to request temporary water service
for cleaning. For the purpose of this section, “temporary water service” means
any amount of time under one month for the purpose of cleaning;
      (2)   Meter reading will be taken at start of request and meter will be
unlocked;
      (3)   Landlord must notify City Hall to request turn-off of temporary
water service; and
      (4)   Meter will be read at end of temporary service and re-locked.
   (C)   Billing. The water usage for temporary water service will be figured
in the same manner as all water bills based on the beginning and ending meter
readings. Water usage will be charged at the current usage per 1,000 gallon
water rate in effect at the time of the water usage, not to include the monthly
minimum charge. The bill will be sent to the landlord for payment. Bills will
become past due and accrue late penalty in the same manner as all water bills,
already established by ordinance.
   (D)   Penalty provisions. If landlord fails to notify city of need for
temporary water usage prior to the actual usage of the water, then the water
rates will be charged as a regular usage bill with the minimum charge incurred
as well as any additional usage.
(Ord. 181, passed 5-11-2009)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
50.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
51.35 through
51.41 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice,
permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
51.99(B)(1), shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $200.00 for each violation. Each day
in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.35 through
51.41 shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the city by reason of the violation.
      (4)   Failure to pay monthly bills for water and/or sanitary sewer
services when due, or failure to pay the established sewer charge for
industrial waste when due, or repeated discharge of prohibited waste to the
sanitary sewer shall result in disconnection of any and all services to the
water and/or sanitary sewer mains of the city. The same penalties and charges
now or hereafter provided for by the ordinances of the city for failure to pay
the bill for water and/or sanitary sewer service when due shall be applicable
in like manner in case of failure to pay the established charge for industrial
waste discharges to the sanitary sewer mains as established in §
51.37.
(Ord. 80, passed 10-9-1972)
CHAPTER 52: SOLID WASTE
Section
Residential Service Regulations
   
52.01   Residential service
   
52.02   Mandatory participation by residential units
   
52.03   Curbside service
   
52.04   Container placement at curb
   
52.05   Hours of operation
   
52.06   Holidays
   
52.07   Complaints
   
52.08   Appeal
Cross-reference:
   For provisions concerning rates, billing and enforcement, see
Chapter 50
**** RESIDENTIAL SERVICE REGULATIONS ****
§ 52.01 RESIDENTIAL SERVICE.
   The following rules, regulations and provisions shall, in addition to the
other applicable provisions of this title, govern the provision of solid waste
services to residential units.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 52.02 MANDATORY PARTICIPATION BY RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
   Every residential unit within the corporate limits of the city shall be
required to utilize garbage collection and disposal services provided under
contract by the city when such residential unit is occupied. A residential unit
shall be deemed occupied when water, wastewater or electrical power services
are being supplied. No person within the city limits shall be permitted to burn
residential trash.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.03 CURBSIDE SERVICE.
   The contractor shall provide curbside collection service for the collection
of refuse as provided for in the contract to each residential unit one time per
week. Customers must place containers as stipulated in contract at curbside by
7:00 a.m. on the designated collection day. In addition to the scheduled weekly
collection of residential refuse, the contractor may from time to time provide
special collection of bundles, bulky waste, construction debris, dead animals
and hazardous waste at residential units at the request of the city.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.04 CONTAINER PLACEMENT AT CURB.
   Each container for collection shall be placed at curbside for collection.
Curbside refers to that portion of the right-of-way adjacent to paved or
traveled city roadways with placement as close to the roadway as practicable
without interfering with or endangering the movement of vehicles or
pedestrians. When construction work is being performed in the right-of-way,
containers shall be placed as close as practicable to an access point for the
collection vehicle. The contractor may decline to collect any container not so
placed.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 52.05 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Collection of residential refuse and special collections scheduled by the
city shall not start before 7:00 a.m. or continue after 5:00 p.m. on the same
day. Exceptions to collection shall be effected only upon the mutual agreement
of the city and contractor, or when the contractor reasonably determines that
an exception is necessary to complete collection on an existing collection
route due to unusual circumstances.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 52.06 HOLIDAYS.
   In the event of suspension of regular collection service on a holiday,
collection service shall be provided on the next business day after the
holiday.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 52.07 COMPLAINTS.
   All complaints shall be made directly to the city. In the case of verified
missed scheduled collections, the city shall arrange for the collection within
24 hours after the complaint is received. The city shall notify customer of
complaint procedures, and of the location and telephone number at which the
contractor and city can be reached between the hours from 8:00 a.m. to noon
Monday through Friday for regular collection days.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 52.08 APPEAL.
   Any determination by the city, the contractor or the city's operator
regarding the terms and provisions of this chapter may be appealed to the City
Council, which shall conduct a hearing on the matter. The city, the contractor
or the city's operator, as applicable, shall, upon request, provide the
customer with information regarding appeals and hearing procedures.
(Ord. O-2010-01, passed 2-8-2010)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   VEHICLES; TOWING, IMPOUNDING
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.001   State Uniform Act adopted
   
70.002   Definitions
   
70.003   Use of engine brakes prohibited
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.010   Traffic control devices to be consistent with Texas Manual
   
70.011   Director of Public Works to implement placement and maintenance
   
70.012   Driver to obey traffic control devices
   
70.013   Unauthorized signs and signals
   
70.014   Defacement of traffic devices
Accidents
   
70.020   Accident reports
   
70.021   Removing vehicle from scene of accident
   
70.022   Restrictions on activities of wrecker drivers at scene of accident
   
70.023   Garages to keep records of damaged vehicles
Emergency Vehicles
   
70.040   Emergency vehicles exempted from certain regulations
   
70.041   Operators of emergency vehicles required to drive responsibly
Traffic Obstruction
   
70.050   Unlawful to maintain traffic obstruction
   
70.051   Municipality may abate obstruction and assess lien
   
70.052   Filing statement of expenses
Fire Trucks and Fire Hoses
   
70.060   Drivers to stop for fire trucks; parking near fires
   
70.061   Driving over fire hose
Speed Limits
   
70.070   Speed limits generally
   
70.071   Excessively slow speed prohibited
   
70.072   Residential speed limit established
   
70.073   School zone speed limit established
   
70.074   Speed humps
Truck Routes
   
70.080   Director of Public Works authorized to establish truck routes
   
70.081   Compliance required
   
70.082   Separate offenses
Parades and Processions
   
70.090   Permit for parades and processions required
   
70.091   Funeral processions
   
70.092   Escorts and traffic safety
   
70.093   Funeral escorts
Bicycles
   
70.100   Rules for operation
   
70.101   Impoundment; sale of impounded bicycles
   
70.102   Penalties for minors violating bicycle riding regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001 STATE UNIFORM ACT ADOPTED.
   (A)   For the purpose of regulating traffic on the streets, alleys and
thoroughfares of the city, there is hereby adopted the State Uniform Act
Regulating Traffic on Highways, codified as the Tex. Transportation Code, and
all other state motor vehicle laws, which act and laws, together with the
provisions contained in this chapter, shall be controlling in the regulation of
traffic in the municipality.
   (B)   A violation of the act or any state motor vehicle law for which the
municipal court has jurisdiction shall constitute and be punishable as a
violation of this code.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.002 DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases in this chapter shall have the same meanings and
definitions ascribed to them in the Tex. Transp. Code, or any other state motor
vehicle law or municipal ordinance as may be provided.
Statutory reference:
   General powers and limitations on municipalities relative to regulating
traffic, see Tex. Transp. Code §§ 542.201 et seq.
§ 70.003 USE OF ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Engine brakes. This section applies to the use or operation of an
auxiliary or compression engine brake (also known as “Jake Brake”) which
induces any noise in addition to the normal operating engine noise is
prohibited within the city limits. This provision is not intended to prohibit
the passage of vehicles equipped with engine brakes or “Jake Brakes” in posted
areas but rather prohibit the use of such equipment in posted areas.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful of any driver of a truck or truck-tractor to
activate or use the unit’s engine brake within the city limits except in an
emergency situation.
      (2)   The term “emergency situation,” for the purpose of this section,
shall mean one in which there is imminent danger of collision with property,
persons or animals.
      (3)   Emergency vehicles will be exempt from this section.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person, or persons, violating or failing to comply with
any provision of this section shall be fined, upon conviction, not less than
$1, or more than $500 dollars, for each offense.
(Ord. O-2024-01, passed 9-9-2024)
**** TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES ****
§ 70.010 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES TO BE CONSISTENT WITH TEXAS MANUAL.
   All traffic control devices including signs, signals and markings (pavement
or curb) installed or used for the purpose of directing and controlling traffic
within the municipality shall conform with the Texas Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices for Streets and Highways, Volumes I and II (hereafter called
the manual). All signs, signals and markings erected or used by the
municipality shall be uniform and located so far as practicable according to
the directions shown in the manual. All existing traffic control devices and
those erected in the future by the municipality being consistent with the
manual, state law, and this chapter shall be official traffic control devices.
§ 70.011 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS TO IMPLEMENT PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works is authorized and directed to adopt
signs, signals, devices and markings to regulate, warn and guide traffic.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works is authorized to place and maintain, or
cause to be placed and maintained, any traffic control devices, signals, signs
and markings as he or she may deem necessary to continue and carry out the
provisions of this chapter, subject to the approval of the Council.
   (C)   The existence of a traffic control device signal or sign shall
constitute prima facie evidence that such is an official traffic control
device, signal or sign lawfully erected and placed.
§ 70.012 DRIVER TO OBEY TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle, motor vehicle or animal shall obey the
instructions of any official traffic control device, sign, signal or marking
applicable thereto placed in accordance with this chapter and municipal
ordinances, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the
exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle permitted by
this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.013 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway, street or alley any unauthorized signs, signal, marking or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the
movement of traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway, street or alley any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising.
   (C)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance, and the Public Works Director or designee is hereby empowered
to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
   (D)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways, streets or alleys of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official
signs.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.014 DEFACEMENT OF TRAFFIC DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device, sign
or signal or any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia
thereon, or any part thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority regarding traffic control devices, see Tex. Transp. Code § 544.002
   Destruction of traffic control device unlawful, see Tex. Transp. Code §
544.005
   Drivers to obey traffic control devices, see Tex. Transp. Code § 544.004
**** ACCIDENTS ****
§ 70.020 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to
or death of any person or property damage to an apparent extent of $25 or more
shall immediately, by the quickest means of communication, either verbal or
written, give notice of the accident to the Public Works Director or designee
if the accident occurs within this city.
   (B)   The Public Works Director or designee may require any driver of a
vehicle involved in an accident, of which report must be made as provided in
this section, to make a supplemental oral or written report whenever the
original report is found to be insufficient or inadequate, and may require
witnesses of the accident to render reports to the Public Works Director or
designee.
   (C)   Every city officer who, in the regular course of duty, investigates an
accident of which report must be made as required in this section, either at
the time of and at the scene of the accident or thereafter by interviewing
participants or witnesses, shall, within 24 hours after completing the
investigation, forward a written report of the accident to the Public Works
Director. Every report shall be made on the appropriate form provided by the
Public Works Director and shall contain all of the information required
therein, unless not available. The report shall be without prejudice to the
officer so reporting and shall be for the confidential use of the Public Works
Director.
   (D)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making a
required accident report and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the
time of the accident capable of making the report, the occupant shall make or
cause to be made the report.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to require accident reports, see Tex. Transp. Code § 550.067
§ 70.021 REMOVING VEHICLE FROM SCENE OF ACCIDENT.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or any other person to remove any
vehicle from the scene of an accident, a report of which is required by §
70.020 above, until authorized to do so by Public Works Director or designee.
This section shall not apply if there exists or arises a duty on the part of
the driver or other person in control of the vehicle to use the vehicle in
carrying any person injured in the accident to a clinic or hospital for medical
or surgical treatment.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.022 RESTRICTIONS ON ACTIVITIES OF WRECKER DRIVERS AT SCENE OF ACCIDENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any person in charge of any
vehicle equipped with a crane, hoist, winch or towing device, who has answered
a call to or is attending the scene of any collision or accident of one or more
vehicles on any highway in this municipality, to remove or attempt to remove
any vehicle involved in the collision or accident, or in any way to interfere
with or change the position of any vehicle, except upon authority or direction
and in the presence of the Public Works Director or designee, unless the change
is made or attempted for the purpose of releasing a person or persons
imprisoned within or under the vehicle involved in the collision or accident.
   (B)   It shall likewise be unlawful for the driver or person in charge of
any vehicle equipped with a crane, hoist, winch or towing device to remove any
vehicle from the scene of an accident or collision, without the consent of the
owner of the vehicle so removed, unless directed by the Public Works Director
or designee to remove the vehicle as a public safety measure or for the
protection of private property.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   General regulations regarding towing and wrecker services, see
Ch. 72
§ 70.023 GARAGES TO KEEP RECORDS OF DAMAGED VEHICLES.
   (A)   The person in charge of any garage or repair shop shall keep a record
of all damaged vehicles which show evidence of having been involved in an
accident or wreck or struck by bullets.
   (B)   This record shall be available for inspection by the Public Works
Director or designee and shall show the name of the driver or person in charge
of the vehicle, the license number, model and type of same, a description of
the damage to the vehicle, and the date brought in for repair.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to require garage to make reports, see Tex. Transp. Code § 550.067
**** EMERGENCY VEHICLES ****
§ 70.040 EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXEMPTED FROM CERTAIN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, as the term “authorized
emergency vehicle” is defined by state law, when responding to an emergency
call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, or
when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may exercise the
privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the conditions herein
stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this or any
section;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
§ 70.041 OPERATORS OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES REQUIRED TO DRIVE RESPONSIBLY.
   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons nor shall those provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
reckless disregard for the safety of others.
Statutory reference:
   Traffic regulations applicable to emergency vehicles, see Tex. Transp. Code
§ 546.002
**** TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTION ****
§ 70.050 UNLAWFUL TO MAINTAIN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully obstruct or injure or
cause to be obstructed or injured or to maintain an obstruction in any manner
whatsoever upon any street, alley or other public way.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who shall own
or occupy any lot in the municipality to allow any plant or tree to accumulate
or grow or any object or vehicle to be maintained on the lot in a manner as to
obstruct the vision of persons using any street or alley contiguous thereto.
§ 70.051 MUNICIPALITY MAY ABATE OBSTRUCTION AND ASSESS LIEN.
   (A)   Should any owner of any lot within the municipality who shall be in
violation of §
70.050 fail or refuse to remove any object or vehicle or to cut down or remove
the plant or tree within ten days after notice to the owner to do so, in
writing, or by letter addressed to the owner at his or her post office address,
or within ten days after notice by publication as many as two times within ten
consecutive days in any newspaper in the municipality, the municipality may
remove the object or vehicle or cut down or remove the plants or trees, or
cause the same to be done and may pay therefore, and charge the expenses
incurred in doing the work or having the work done or improvements made to the
owner of the lot or real estate. If the work is done or improvements made at
the expense of the municipality, then the expenses shall be assessed on the lot
or real estate upon which the expense was incurred.
   (B)   Should any plant, tree, object or vehicle encroach upon any public
right-of-way, the municipality shall have the authority to cut back or trim the
plant or tree and to remove the object or vehicle or portion thereof from the
right-of-way.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.052 FILING STATEMENT OF EXPENSES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall file a statement of the expenses incurred under §
70.051, giving the amount of the expenses, and the date on which the work was
done or improvements made, with the County Clerk, and the municipality shall
have a privileged lien on the lot or real estate upon which the work was done
or adjacent to any street which shall be cleared or any work done under this
section in accordance with the provisions of Tex. Health & Safety Code §
342.007, which the lien shall be second only to tax liens and liens for street
improvements.
   (B)   The amount shall bear 10% interest from the date the statement was
filed.
   (C)   It is further provided that for any expenditures and interest, as
aforesaid, suit may be instituted and recovery and foreclosure of the lien may
be had in the name of the municipality and the statement of expenses so made,
as aforesaid, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie proof of the
amount expended for the work or improvements.
**** FIRE TRUCKS AND FIRE HOSES ****
§ 70.060 DRIVERS TO STOP FOR FIRE TRUCKS; PARKING NEAR FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of any vehicle or apparatus of the Fire Department
in answering a fire alarm, the drivers of any vehicle other than a vehicle of
the Fire Department shall drive as close as possible to the right hand curb and
stop and shall not follow within 200 feet after the fire apparatus of the Fire
Department has passed.
   (B)   No driver of any vehicle of any kind shall park within 150 feet of a
fire at any time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.061 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   Any vehicle pertaining to the Fire Department shall have prior right-of-way
upon all streets, avenues or alleys of this city during a fire or practice, and
it shall be unlawful for any person, driver, chauffeur in charge or control of
any buggy, wagon, automobile or any other vehicle to carelessly, wantonly,
willfully or maliciously drive over a fire hose of the Fire Department during
practice or actual fire.
Penalty, see §
10.99
**** SPEED LIMITS ****
§ 70.070 SPEED LIMITS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on any street in the municipal limits
at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and
having regard for the actual and potential hazards then existing. In every
event, speed shall be so controlled as may be necessary to avoid colliding with
any person, vehicle or other conveyance or on entering a highway or street in
compliance with legal requirements, and it shall be the duty of all persons to
use due care.
   (B)   No person shall operate or drive any vehicle within the municipal
limits on any street at a speed greater than 15 mph unless signs are erected
designating another speed limit.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Exemptions for emergency vehicles, see §
70.040
§ 70.071 EXCESSIVELY SLOW SPEED PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as
to impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced
speed is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law or at the
direction of a law enforcement officer.
   (B)   Police officers are hereby authorized to enforce this provision by
directions to drivers. In the event of apparent willful disobedience to this
provision and refusal to comply with the direction of an officer in accordance
herewith, the continued slow operation of a motor vehicle by a driver shall be
a misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish or alter speed limits, see Tex. Transp. Code §
545.356
§ 70.072 RESIDENTIAL SPEED LIMIT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, RESIDENTIAL STREET
shall mean any public street or roadway within the city that is primarily
intended to provide access to residential properties, including subdivisions
and neighborhoods, and that is not designated as an arterial or state highway.
   (B)   Establishment of residential speed limit. The maximum prima facie
speed limit on all residential streets within the corporate limits of the city
is hereby established at 15 miles per hour, unless otherwise posted. This speed
limit is further intended to reduce dust generation on gravel and unpaved
streets and to support the city’s ongoing efforts to maintain safe, clean, and
livable residential neighborhoods.
   (C)   Posting of signs. The Public Works Director, or designee, is
authorized and directed to cause appropriate traffic control signs to be
erected and maintained giving notice of the residential speed limit established
by this section, in accordance with the Texas Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices (TMUTCD).
   (D)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforced by the Jack County
Sheriff’s Office or any other law enforcement officer authorized to enforce
traffic laws within the City of Bryson. A violation of this section shall
constitute a violation of the city’s traffic regulations.
   (E)   Penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this section shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a
fine in accordance with the general penalty provisions of the city’s code of
ordinances, as amended, not to exceed the maximum amount allowed by state law.
(Ord. O-2026-02, passed 2-9-2026)
§ 70.073 SCHOOL ZONE SPEED LIMIT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
      SCHOOL HOURS. The times during which SCHOOL ZONE speed limits are in
effect, as indicated by posted signs, including times when students are
arriving at or leaving school.
      SCHOOL ZONE. A designated area on a public street or roadway adjacent to
or in the immediate vicinity of a public or private school, as identified by
official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   School zone speed limit established. A maximum speed limit of ten
miles per hour is hereby established for all vehicles traveling within any
designated school zone located within the corporate limits of the City of
Bryson during posted school hours.
   (C)   Signs and markings.
      (1)   The City Administrator or designee shall cause appropriate traffic-
control devices, including signs and pavement markings, to be installed and
maintained in compliance with the Texas Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices (TMUTCD).
      (2)   The school zone speed limit established by this section shall be
effective only when the required signs are erected and visible to motorists.
   (D)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforced by the Jack County Sheriff
Department or any other law enforcement officer authorized by law. The school
zone speed limit shall be enforceable only during posted school hours.
   (E)   Penalty. Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined in accordance with the city’s
general penalty provisions, as authorized by state law. Each violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. O-2026-03, passed 2-9-2026)
§ 70.074 SPEED HUMPS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish a policy for the
installation, maintenance, and removal of speed humps on residential streets
within the City of Bryson in order to promote traffic safety while maintaining
reasonable access for emergency and service vehicles.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
      PETITION. A written request submitted by residents seeking the
installation of speed humps on a specific street segment.
      RESIDENTIAL STREET. A public street primarily intended to provide access
to residential properties and not designated as a collector or arterial
roadway.
      SPEED HUMP. A raised area of pavement, typically three to four inches in
height and 12 to 14 feet in length, designed to reduce vehicular speed.
      STREET SEGMENT. A portion of a street between two intersections or
between an intersection and a dead end.
   (C)   Streets eligible for speed humps. Speed humps may be considered only
on streets that meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Classified as residential streets;
      (2)   Have a posted speed limit of 30 miles per hour or less;
      (3)   Are not designated emergency response routes, school bus routes, or
primary truck routes, unless approved by the City Council after consultation
with emergency service providers; and
      (4)   Have documented speeding or traffic safety concerns as determined
by the city.
   (D)   Petition requirements. 
      (1)   Requests for speed humps shall be initiated by a petition signed by
at least 70% of property owners fronting the affected street segment.
      (2)   All property owners on the affected street segment shall be
notified of the petition.
      (3)   Submission of a petition does not guarantee approval or
installation.
   (E)   Evaluation and approval.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a valid petition, the city shall conduct a traffic
evaluation which may include speed studies, traffic volume counts, and
consultation with police, fire, and emergency medical services.
      (2)   The City Council shall have final authority to approve or deny the
installation of speed humps.
      (3)   Approval may be conditioned upon available funding and
prioritization of public safety needs.
   (F)   Design and installation standards.
      (1)   Speed humps shall conform to city-adopted engineering standards and
applicable state guidelines.
      (2)   Appropriate advance warning signs and pavement markings shall be
installed.
      (3)   Speed humps shall be placed at locations determined by the city to
maximize effectiveness and safety.
   (G)   Maintenance and removal.
      (1)   The city shall be responsible for maintenance of approved speed
humps.
      (2)   Speed humps may be removed if:
         (a)   Traffic patterns change;
         (b)   Safety concerns arise;
         (c)   A majority of affected property owners submit a removal
petition; or
         (d)   The City Council determines removal is in the public interest.
   (H)   Liability. The City of Bryson shall not be liable for any damage to
vehicles resulting from lawful installation of speed humps constructed in
accordance with this section.
(Ord. O-2026-04, passed 2-9-2026)
**** TRUCK ROUTES ****
§ 70.080 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORIZED TO ESTABLISH TRUCK ROUTES.
   The Director of Public Works shall cause signs to be erected as necessary
prohibiting truck traffic except on marked truck routes and to mark the truck
routes with signs.
§ 70.081 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle with gross
vehicular weight rating in excess of 18,000 pounds, or 18,000 pounds gross
cargo weight rating in the case of a truck trailer or tractor trailer unit, to
use, travel upon or drive over any street or highway within the municipality
not designated as a truck route, except that if the point of origin or
destination, for commercial purposes only, for any motor vehicle shall be off
the truck route, then the vehicle may proceed by the shortest possible route to
and from the destination to the nearest truck route.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.082 SEPARATE OFFENSES.
   Each deviation either in the direction of or in the direction away from a
truck route shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
**** PARADES AND PROCESSIONS ****
§ 70.090 PERMIT FOR PARADES AND PROCESSIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No procession or parade excepting the forces of the United States
military, the military forces of this state, and the Fire Department shall
occupy, march or proceed along any street, sidewalk or any other public place
or way except in accordance with a permit issued by the Public Works Director
or designee. This section shall not apply to funeral processions, school
functions such as marching bands, provided the activities are under the
direction of appropriate school authorities, or a governmental agency.
   (B)   The application for a permit shall be made 15 working days prior to
the proposed parade or procession. The permit application shall state the name
of the sponsoring organization or person, the reason for the procession or
parade, the proposed route of the parade, and the number of persons, vehicles,
floats, units or other participants in the parade or procession, time of day
requested, any special requirements such as extremely wide or long vehicles,
special effects, such as lighted units, and the use of any hazardous materials
or live fires.
   (C)   The Public Works Director or designee shall review the permit
application and shall issue the permit for the parade or procession on the
application of the applicant except in the following circumstances in which the
Public Works Director or designee is authorized to deny or modify the permit to
be issued:
      (1)   Where the parade or procession is of a length or duration that it
will inhibit the flow of traffic for a period in excess of two hours;
      (2)   Where, in the opinion of the Public Works Director or designee,
there is substantial danger to life or bodily harm or property damage to a
participant in the parade or procession, or to a spectator, or a person is
likely to be affected because of the use of hazardous materials, toxic
chemicals or live fires in the parade or procession; and/or
      (3)   Where the hours proposed for the parade or procession will cause a
direct interference with the traffic flow along the proposed route to the point
that personal injury or property damage is likely to result to the parade or
procession participants or others displaced by the parade or procession along
the parade or procession route or on detours caused by the parade or procession
route.
   (D)   Each application for a permit shall be accompanied with a permit fee,
as the city may decide. This fee shall be non-refundable regardless of whether
the permit is granted or denied.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.091 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as
such by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other
identifying insignia or by the display of headlights on each of the automobiles
in the daytime.
   (B)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when the
vehicles are conspicuously designated as required by division (A) of this
section. This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic-control signals or designated city officers.
   (C)   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to
the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle
ahead as closely as is practical and safe.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.092 ESCORTS AND TRAFFIC SAFETY.
   All parades and funeral processions operating at any point in the municipal
limits shall be required to be escorted by an escort officer operating a
motorcycle or automobile displaying flashing red or blue lights or a
combination thereof, and the escort officer shall precede the procession at
each intersection or shall hold traffic at intersections for a reasonable
length of time for the continuous passage of the funeral procession or parade.
§ 70.093 FUNERAL ESCORTS.
   (A)   Any person who escorts a funeral or other procession in the municipal
limits shall apply to the Public Works Director for permission to do so.
   (B)   Expense of the escorts shall be borne by the person responsible for
the procession.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate processions, see Tex. Transp. Code § 542.202
**** BICYCLES ****
§ 70.100 RULES FOR OPERATION.
   The following rules and regulations shall be observed in the operation of a
bicycle on the streets and public places.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle shall at all times operate the
bicycle with due regard for the safety of other persons and vehicles lawfully
upon the streets, highways, parkways and public places, as well as for his or
her own safety, and shall at all times and under all conditions yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians on the streets, highways, parkways, public places
and on crosswalks.
   (B)   Every person operating a bicycle shall comply with all vehicle traffic
laws, except where the laws by their nature do not apply to bicycles, and all
vehicle traffic signs and signals erected for the regulation of traffic.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle upon the
streets, highways, parkways and public places during the period of one hour
after sunset to one hour before sunrise unless the bicycle is equipped with a
front light, casting a beam of white light in front of the bicycle visible for
not less than 500 feet, and also a rear signal, which is an official reflector
or red light visible for not less than 300 feet.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to operate a bicycle upon the streets, highways,
parkways and public places that is not equipped with adequate brakes, lights
and warning signal, all of which are in proper working order during all of the
time of the operation of the bicycle that has the approval and has passed
police inspection.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of all persons operating a bicycle to ride single
file, in a straight line, and as near the right-hand curb as possible, on all
main highways and thoroughfares and in central business sections, and when
riding on other streets must not ride in groups and more than two abreast.
   (F)   Before turning or changing the direction of any bicycle upon any
street, highway, parkway or public place, it shall be the duty of the bicycle
rider to give a signal, by the extension of the hand, to indicate the direction
it is the intention to proceed.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a bicycle upon any
street, highway, parkway or public place to attach himself or herself to any
other moving vehicle.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a bicycle equipped for
carrying only the rider to carry another person on the front or rear frame or
handlebar of a bicycle.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a bicycle to engage in
fancy or trick riding and without maintaining full control of the bicycle,
keeping both hands on the handlebar, except when necessary to signal.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.101 IMPOUNDMENT; SALE OF IMPOUNDED BICYCLES
   (A)   Whenever any bicycle shall be impounded for violation of the
provisions of this chapter, it shall be surrendered at the expiration of the
impounded period to the parents or the guardian of the offender on the payment
of a charge for storage, at the discretion of the Public Works Director. If a
charge is made, it shall not exceed $10.
   (B)   In the case of the seizure of a bicycle because it has been found in
the possession of a person not the legal owner thereof, and the bicycle is not
reclaimed by the legal owner thereof, it shall be sold at public auction, after
the expiration of 60 days from the date of seizure. Notice containing a
description of the bicycle shall be published in a newspaper circulating in the
municipality at least one week prior to the date of the sale. The proceeds of
the sale shall be remitted to the general fund.
§ 70.102 PENALTIES FOR MINORS VIOLATING BICYCLE RIDING REGULATIONS.
   Any person 16 years of age and under who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter relating to the bicycle safe riding rules and regulations and the
official police instructions for the safe operation of a bicycle shall be, for
the first offense, reprimanded in writing by the Public Works Director or
designee, addressed to the parents or guardian of the offender, stating the
nature of violation. Any additional violations shall be considered as
misdemeanors under §
10.99 of this code.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Operation of bicycles and mopeds generally, see Tex. Transp. Code §§ 551.001
et seq.
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Parking on public roadways prohibited
   
71.02   Parking of heavy trucks on streets prohibited
   
71.03   Parallel parking
   
71.04   Angle parking
   
71.05   Parking in marked spaces
   
71.06   Vehicle owner not to permit parking violations
   
71.07   Impoundment of unlawfully parked vehicle
§ 71.01 PARKING ON PUBLIC ROADWAYS PROHIBITED.
   Except where specifically provided in this code, parking of any vehicle
shall be prohibited on the street surface of any public roadway used for
vehicular travel within the corporate limits of the municipality.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 PARKING OF HEAVY TRUCKS ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any truck with a carrying
capacity of five tons or more to park the truck on any public street, parking
lot, right-of-way or other public place in the municipality.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of parking on public property, see Tex. Transp. Code § 542.202
   Regulation of parking on private property, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code §
601.001
§ 71.03 PARALLEL PARKING.
   At places in the municipality as the Council shall, by ordinance, determine
that parallel parking shall be permitted and shall cause the same to be marked
or signed, every vehicle parked shall be parked so that the right-hand wheels
thereof are parallel to and within 18 inches of the right-hand curb or edge of
the roadway.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to permit parallel parking, see Tex. Transp. Code § 545.303
§ 71.04 ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be lawful to park vehicles at an angle not greater than 45
degrees to the line of traffic at places in the municipality as the Council
shall, by ordinance, determine that angle parking shall be permitted and shall
cause the same to be marked or signed.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, angle parking
shall not be permitted on any federal-aid or state highway within the
municipality, unless an authorized official of the State Department of Highways
& Public Transportation has determined that the roadway is of sufficient width
to permit angle parking without interfering with the free movement of traffic.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to permit angle parking, see Tex. Transp. Code § 545.303
§ 71.05 PARKING IN MARKED SPACES.
   Whenever the municipality shall have designated the manner in which motor
vehicles shall be parked on any public street, by marking parking spaces on
those streets, it shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any street
other than in the manner so designated and entirely within the lines of the
space.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 VEHICLE OWNER NOT TO PERMIT PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   No person shall allow, suffer or permit any vehicle registered in his or her
name to stand or be parked in any street in the municipality in violation of
any of the ordinances of the municipality or laws of the state regulating the
standing or parking of vehicles.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 IMPOUNDMENT OF UNLAWFULLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any vehicle parked in violation of the traffic ordinances of the
municipality at a place where parking is prohibited or parking time is limited
may be removed and impounded by the Public Works Director or designee, the
removal to be accomplished by an authorized wrecker service.
   (B)   An impounding fee of $20, plus the wrecker service charge, shall be
assessed against and collected from the owner or driver of the vehicle before
the release of the vehicle.
   (C)   The payment of the impounding fee shall not excuse the owner or driver
of the vehicle from the charge of violating the regulation prohibiting or
limiting parking.
Cross-reference:
   Regulations regarding use of wrecker services and impoundment, see
Ch. 72
CHAPTER 72: VEHICLES; TOWING, IMPOUNDING
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Wrecker to be invited to accident scene; exception
   
72.03   Soliciting business prohibited
   
72.04   Application for placement on rotation list
   
72.05   Inspection by officials; notice to applicants seeking placement on
rotation list
   
72.06   Annual requests for placement on rotation list
   
72.07   Maximum charges
   
72.08   Insurance
   
72.09   Minimum equipment
   
72.10   Inspection of equipment
   
72.11   Driver registration
   
72.12   Fencing of yards
   
72.13   Rotation list
   
72.14   Answering calls
   
72.15   Wrecker selection form
   
72.16   Wrecker used in absence of designation
   
72.17   City prohibited from influencing selection of wrecker
   
72.18   Following vehicle in response to accident report prohibited
   
72.19   Impoundment of wrecked vehicle
   
72.20   Signs required on wreckers
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   OWNER. Any person who holds the legal title of a motor vehicle or who has
the legal right of possession thereof, or the legal right of the vehicle.
   STREET. Any street, alley, public place, square or highway within the
corporate limits of the municipality.
   VEHICLE. Every device in or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway except devices moved only by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rail or tracks, and shall include
trailers and semi-trailers.
   WRECKER. Any motor vehicle used for the purpose of towing or removing
disabled or wrecked vehicles.
   WRECKER BUSINESS. The business of towing or removing disabled or wrecked
vehicles on the public streets, regardless of whether the purpose of the towing
is to remove, repair, wreck, store, trade or purchase the disabled or wrecked
vehicles.
   WRECKER COMPANY. Any person engaged in the wrecker business.
   WRECKER SELECTION FORM. The form for selection of wrecker companies,
prepared and used as provided in §
72.15.
§ 72.02 WRECKER TO BE INVITED TO ACCIDENT SCENE; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall drive a wrecker to or near the scene or situs of an accident
or collision on the streets of the municipality, unless the person has been
called to the scene by the Public Works Director or designee; provided, that
when it is necessary to prevent death or bodily injury to any person involved
in an accident or collision, any other person may summon a wrecker and the
prohibition of this section shall be inapplicable.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 SOLICITING BUSINESS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall solicit in any manner, directly or indirectly, on the
streets of the municipality, the business of towing any vehicle which is
wrecked or disabled on a public street, regardless of whether the solicitation
is for the purpose of soliciting the business of towing, removing, repairing,
wrecking, storing, trading or purchasing the vehicle.
   (B)   Proof of the presence of any person engaged in the wrecker business or
the presence of any wrecker or motor vehicle owned or operated by any person
engaged in the wrecker business, either as owner, operator, employee or agent,
on any public street in the city, at or near the scene or situs of a wreck,
accident or collision within one hour after the happening of a wreck, accident
or collision, shall be prima facie evidence of a solicitation in violation of
this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 APPLICATION FOR PLACEMENT ON ROTATION LIST.
   (A)   All operators of a wrecker business desiring to be called for wrecker
service by the Public Works Director shall make application, in writing, to the
Public Works Director, and upon the application shall list the operator’s
qualifications and equipment for providing the service, provide a copy of
insurance policies or a certificate of insurance stating coverage, and agree
not to charge more than the amounts prescribed in §
72.07 and to abide by the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Operators making application agree to pay the municipality $10 per
call referred to offset the municipality’s costs in administering the rotation
system. Operators failing to pay charges billed shall be removed from the
rotation list.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 INSPECTION BY OFFICIALS; NOTICE TO APPLICANTS SEEKING PLACEMENT ON
ROTATION LIST.
   (A)   After application is made, the Public Works Director shall inspect the
equipment of the applicant for compliance with the standards and specifications
as set out in this chapter.
   (B)   The Public Works Director shall notify all applicants complying with
the provisions of this chapter that their name has been placed on the approval
list.
   (C)   Applicants not complying with provisions of this chapter shall be
notified in writing of the reasons for the rejection of the application.
§ 72.06 ANNUAL REQUESTS FOR PLACEMENT ON ROTATION LIST.
   During the month of September each year, the wrecker operators in the
municipality desiring to have their names retained or placed on the list
authorizing them to answer requests for wrecker service by the city shall make
the requests in writing to the Public Works Director.
§ 72.07 MAXIMUM CHARGES.
   (A)   Operators under the municipality’s rotation system shall agree to
charge no more than the prices for services within the city (calls by Public
Works Director or designee) as the city may decide.
   (B)   No charges shall be made for calls or service in the municipality
except those listed charges. A comprehensive list of service rates must be
posted in a public area for customer viewing. For hauls to points outside the
municipality, or originating outside of the municipality, the operator and
owner shall negotiate a price and the municipality shall not be responsible for
supervision of this charge.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.08 INSURANCE.
   (A)   All wrecker operators shall carry standard liability insurance in
limits of not less than the following sums:
      (1)   For damage arising out of bodily injury to or death of one person
in any one accident, $250,000;
      (2)   For damage arising out of bodily injury to or death of two or more
persons in any one accident, $500,000; and
      (3)   For injury to or destruction of property in any one accident,
$50,000.
   (B)   All wrecker operators who have storage yards shall carry a minimum of
$25,000 insurance to cover theft or vandalism from the yard.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.09 MINIMUM EQUIPMENT.
   All wrecker or towing equipment operators desiring to be called by the
Public Works Director or designee shall have the following minimum equipment:
two one-ton wreckers equipped with dolly, winch, line, booster brakes, axe, tow
bar, spare chains, blinker lights, emergency light, working light, broom,
flares, wheel chocks, hydraulic jack and fire extinguisher, in addition to
other standard equipment on wreckers.
§ 72.10 INSPECTION OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Public Works Director shall have the right to inspect the
equipment of all operators providing wrecker service under the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   The inspection may be made at any and all reasonable hours and places.
   (C)   The Public Works Director, after inspection, may authorize the removal
of an operator’s name from the list for failure to operate and maintain its
equipment in an efficient and good manner.
§ 72.11 DRIVER REGISTRATION.
   All drivers for the wrecker operators shall be required to register with the
Public Works Director, and a driver’s license report from the Department of
Public Safety shall be requested.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.12 FENCING OF YARDS.
   All yards and storage areas for damaged vehicles which are towed in by
wrecker operators shall be fenced in order to provide protection for the
vehicles in custody.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.13 ROTATION LIST.
   The Public Works Director shall maintain a wrecker rotation list in
alphabetical order which shall contain the names and addresses of each wrecker
service operator who complies with the provisions of this chapter in order that
the operator might be called upon for wrecker service by the Public Works
Director or designee in the absence of an expressed preference by the owner or
operator of the vehicle requiring assistance. After the operator at the top of
the list receives a call, then that name shall be placed at the bottom of the
list and the next operator shall be moved to the top of the list to receive
calls. This process shall be repeated until each operator providing wrecker
service under the provisions of this chapter has received calls. The Public
Works Director or designee shall notify each wrecker operator in sufficient
time prior to his or her rendering the wrecker service in order that the
operator might adequately provide the necessary personnel and equipment to
answer the calls.
§ 72.14 ANSWERING CALLS.
   In the event a wrecker service operator is requested by the Public Works
Director or designee to make a call and the operator agrees to make the call,
then the operator shall proceed immediately to the scene where he or she is
directed and shall be given a reasonable length of time in which to reach the
location. If the wrecker service operator answering the call has not reached
the location within a reasonable length of time, then the officer at the scene
may proceed to call the next wrecker service operator on the list and that
operator shall have priority in that particular call. In the event that the
wrecker service operator called fails to comply with the provisions of this
section by proceeding to the designated place within the time specified above,
then this wrecker service operator shall be removed from the top of the list
and placed at the bottom of the list. This section shall not apply where the
operator’s name at the top of the list is called and he advises the officer
requesting the wrecker service that he or she will be unable to make the call
nor will it apply where there has been a delay caused by some act or commission
of another person other than the wrecker operator or his or her employees or by
an act of God.
§ 72.15 WRECKER SELECTION FORM.
   (A)   Content of form. The Public Works Director shall develop a wrecker
selection form which shall:
      (1)   Contain a statement by the owner of the disabled vehicle
designating in blank spaces therein the wrecker company (a company authorized
under this chapter to engage in the wrecker business) which he or she desires
to remove the disabled vehicle and the place to which he or she desires the
vehicle removed;
      (2)   Contain a list of charges authorized by this chapter for rotation
operators;
      (3)   Contain a statement authorizing any designated city officer to call
the designated wrecker company to remove the disabled vehicle;
      (4)   Contain a statement in the alternative that the owner has no
preference as to a wrecker company and authorizes any designated city officer
to call the wrecker service under contract to the municipality and that he or
she desires the vehicle to be removed to the place designated by him or her in
the blank spaces therein; and
      (5)   Provide space for signature of the owner of the vehicle.
   (B)   Use of form.
      (1)   When a designated city officer investigating an accident determines
that any vehicle involved in an accident or collision upon a public street is
unable to proceed safely under its own power, or when the owner thereof is
physically unable to drive the vehicle, the officer shall request the owner to
designate on a wrecker selection form the wrecker company the owner desires to
remove the vehicle. The designation by the owner shall be indicated on the form
and when completed shall be signed by the owner. The officer shall give a copy
of the authorization thus made on the form to the owner and shall retain for
record the original thereof. Upon leaving duty on the same day, the officer
shall place the original in a well-bound book in the office of the Public Works
Director provided for that purpose.
      (2)   When the owner has designated the wrecker company desired, the
designated city officer shall communicate the fact immediately to the Public
Works Director or designee and it shall be the duty of the officer receiving
the information to call the designated company to send a wrecker to the scene
of the accident or collision.
§ 72.16 WRECKER USED IN ABSENCE OF DESIGNATION.
   If the owner of a disabled vehicle involved in an accident or collision
fails or refuses to designate a wrecker company, or if it becomes necessary to
have an abandoned or untended vehicle removed from public or private property,
the investigating officer shall cause the wrecker company then first on the
rotation list maintained by the municipality for the service to be summoned to
provide the service.
§ 72.17 CITY PROHIBITED FROM INFLUENCING SELECTION OF WRECKER.
   No city official shall, directly or indirectly, either by word, gesture,
sign or otherwise, recommend to any person the name of any particular person
engaged in the wrecker service or repair business nor shall any official
influence or attempt to influence in any manner the decision of any person in
choosing or selecting a wrecker or repair service.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.18 FOLLOWING VEHICLE IN RESPONSE TO ACCIDENT REPORT PROHIBITED.
   No person in a wrecker shall follow any ambulance or police car which is
traveling on a public street in response to a report of an vehicular collision
or accident.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.19 IMPOUNDMENT OF WRECKED VEHICLE.
   The Public Works Director or designee may direct that any vehicle shall be
taken by the driver of the wrecker towing the vehicle directly to the municipal
pound and there held by the municipality for inspection or investigation to
determine the cause or reason for the accident the vehicle was involved in or
the vehicle’s disability or for any lawful purpose.
§ 72.20 SIGNS REQUIRED ON WRECKERS.
   Each wrecker doing business in the municipality shall be marked by
displaying a sign on each door with the name, address and telephone number of
the wrecker service in letters at least one inch high.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Records required for garages and repair shops storing damaged vehicles, see
§
70.023
   Restrictions on wrecker drivers at scene of accident, see §
70.022
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Speed limits in the city are as follows:
Street Location Speed Limit
Street                   Location                    Speed Limit
                         From North City Limits on
FM 1191 North            FM 1191 N southerly 0.410   45 mph
                         miles to intersection of US
                         Hwy 380 (Dempsey St.)
                         From intersection of US Hwy
FM 1191 South            380 with FM 1191 South      35 mph
(South Depot St.)        southerly 0.284 miles to
                         Station 20+00
                         From Station 20+00
FM 1191 South            southerly 0.215 miles to    50 mph
(South Depot St.)        South City Limits on FM
                         1191 South
US Hwy 380               From West City Limits on US
(Dempsey St.)            Hwy 380 easterly 0.175 mile 55 mph
                         to station 773+20
                         From Station 773+20,
US Hwy 380               easterly 0.203 mile to
(Dempsey St.)            Station 762+50 (apx. 200    45 mph
                         feet west of intersection
                         of US Hwy 380 and West St.)
                         From Station 762+50 (apx.
                         200 feet west of
                         intersection of US Hwy 380
US Hwy 380               and West St.) easterly      35 mph
(Dempsey St.)            0.407 mile to Station
                         741+00 (apx. 200 feet west
                         of intersection of US Hwy
                         380 and Lovers Lane)
                         From Station 741+00 (apx.
                         200 feet west of
US Hwy 380               intersection of US Hwy 380  45 mph
(Dempsey St.)            and Lovers Lane) easterly
                         0.287 mile to East City
                         Limits on US Hwy 380
                         School zone; from Station
                         750 + 40 (east of East      25 mph when so signed for
38US Hwy 380             Street), easterly 0.178     school crossing; 35 mph at
(Dempsey St.)            mile to Station 741 + 00    all other times
                         (east of Old Jermyn Rd.),
                         zoned
                         From U.S. 380 north on Old
                         Jermyn Road to Newsome
                         Street; U.S. 380 north on
                         McCloud Street to entrance
                         of Bryson independent
                         school district property;
Old Jermyn Road, McCloud U.S. 380 north on Boland
Street, Boland Street,   Street to Newsome Street;   20 mph
York Street, and North   Newsome Street east and
Street                   west from Boland Street and
                         Old Jermyn Road; York
                         Street east and west from
                         Boland Street and Old
                         Jermyn Road; North Street
                         east and west from Boland
                         Street and Old Jermyn Road
 
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this schedule shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in
any sum not more than $200.
(Ord. 38, passed 11-9-1953; Ord. 44, passed 5-14-1956; Ord. 56, passed 8-12-
1963; Ord. 63, passed 6-14-1965; Ord. 74, passed 4-3-1972; Ord. 119, passed 2-
14-1983; Ord. 149, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. O-2014-06, passed 9-8-2014)
Cross-reference:
   Residential speed limit, see §
70.072
   School zone speed limit, see §
70.073
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parallel parking
SCHEDULE I. PARALLEL PARKING.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this schedule, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PARALLEL. In regard to regulating the parking of vehicles, is meant
parallel to the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street, with the
right-hand wheels next to, more or less equidistant from and not more than 18
inches from the curb or edge, with the vehicle completely within the designated
parking space, where the spaces have been designated.
   (B)   Parking regulations. That from and after the effective date of this
schedule, vehicles which are parked on below designated streets or sections
thereof will be done in a parallel fashion. The streets designated for parallel
parking are as follows:
 
Side       Street                            Location
                                             From northwest corner of McCloud
North side U.S. Highway 380 (Dempsey Street) Street to northeast corner of West
                                             Street
 
   (C)   The parking of vehicles on any of the above designated streets or
portions thereof in any manner other than that set out herein is prohibited.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
schedule will be subject to a fine in any amount not exceeding $200.
(Ord. 72, passed 10-26-1971)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   GENERAL NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   FIREWORKS
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: GENERAL NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Notice of violation; abatement
   
90.02   Depositing of waste, garbage
   
90.03   Abatement of nuisance lots; rates established
Mosquito Control
   
90.10   Collection of water to be treated; what constitutes
   
90.11   Methods of treatment
   
90.12   Notice of violation
   
90.13   City to treat at cost of property owner
   
90.14   Enforcement and penalty
Junked Vehicles
   
90.30   Adoption of Texas Junked Vehicle Act
   
90.31   Definitions
   
90.32   Declaration of nuisance
   
90.33   Abatement and removal procedure
   
90.34   Cancel of certificate of title upon notification to state
   
90.35   Disposition of junked vehicles or parts
   
90.36   Administration of procedures
   
90.37   Right of entry upon private property
   
90.38   Effect of state law as to traffic obstruction
Noise Regulations
   
90.50   Intent and policy of city
   
90.51   Definitions
   
90.52   Maximum permissible sound levels
   
90.53   Prohibited acts; generally
   
90.54   Specific prohibitions
   
90.55   Affirmative defenses
   
90.56   Methods of sound measurement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 90.01 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Upon the discovery of any of the following public nuisances upon any
property in the corporate city limits or extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
city, notice shall be given to the owner, tenant, lessee and/or occupant of the
premises that they are in violation of this section through the existence of
one or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   The growth of grass, weeds, brush or other uncultivated plants to a
height greater than ten inches on any property;
      (2)   The accumulation of garbage, trash, rubbish, refuse or other
objectionable, unsightly or unsanitary matter on any property;
      (3)   The accumulation of stagnant water on any property; and/or
      (4)   The visual line of sight obstruction of an intersection onto a
right-of-way, street, road or alley within 15 feet of the intersection,
attributable to any natural growth or human-made barriers, on any property.
   (B)   Notice shall be given to one or more of the owner(s), tenant(s),
lessee(s) and/or occupant(s) of the premises for a violation of any one or more
of the provisions contained in divisions (A)(1) through (4) above. The notice
shall grant the party(ies) in question ten days from receipt of the notice to
cause correction of the violation and come within complete compliance of this
section. Notice shall be through personal delivery of notice or certified/
registered return receipt via mail delivery. If a person cannot be personally
served, and the owner’s address is unknown, the city has the option of public
notice of the violation at least twice within ten consecutive days or by
posting the notice on or near each building on a placard attached to a stake
driven into the ground on the property to which the violation relates, if the
property contains no buildings. The notice shall also inform the owner that if
they do not comply with the ordinance within the ten-days’ period, the city
may:
      (1)   Do the work or make the improvements required; and
      (2)   Pay for the work done or improvements made and charge the expenses
to the owner of the property.
   (C)   If the owner of the property does not abate the nuisance and come
within complete compliance of this section within the ten-day notice period,
the city may assess all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in doing the
work and making the improvements required in abating the nuisance against the
owner of the property, and may assess a privileged lien against the property
upon which the work was conducted. To obtain a lien against the property, the
Mayor, or other municipal officer designated by the Mayor, must file a
statement of expenses or affidavit with the County Clerk.
      (1)   The lien obtained is security for the expenditures made and
interest accruing at the rate of 10% on the amount due from the date of payment
by the city.
      (2)   The lien is inferior only to:
         (a)   Tax liens; and
         (b)   Liens for street improvements.
      (3)   The city may bring a lawsuit for foreclosure of the property in the
name of the city to recover the expenditures and interest due.
(Tex. Health and Safety Code § 342.007) (Ord. 173, passed 9-8-2008) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.02 DEPOSITING OF WASTE, GARBAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to throw,
deposit or place, or cause or permit to be thrown, deposited or placed upon or
into any sidewalk, street, alley or other public grounds in the city any trash,
paper, garbage or waste of any kind.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation owning or
conducting any mercantile business of any character, or of any barber shop,
drug store, cold drink stand, café or restaurant, grocery store, dry goods
store, motion picture theater or place of amusement, to keep and maintain a
metal garbage can or barrel in which shall be deposited all trash, paper,
garbage and waste of any kind which may accumulate incident to the business, to
use services of trash removal provided by the city, and to haul or cause to be
hauled the same, except such as may be otherwise disposed of as provided in the
succeeding section thereof.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to burn or permit to be burned upon any business
premised or upon any sidewalk, street or alley in the city, any paper, trash,
waste, garbage or other material, unless the same shall be burned in a metal
container which shall be covered and which contains no holes or apertures of
more than three-fourths inch in diameter or three-fourths inch square.
(Ord. 13, passed 5-28-1937) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Solid waste collection regulations, see
Chapter 52
§ 90.03 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE LOTS; RATES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Upon request by a citizen, after being served with a notice of
violation of §
90.01(A)(1), fees for the rental of city equipment performed by city employees
shall be:
Equipment Fee per hour
Equipment                Fee per hour
   16’ Utility trail   $45
   Chainsaw              $30
   Cutting torch         $45
   Dump truck            $85
   Gas welder            $60
   Sewer machine         $60
   Three-inch trash pu   $30
   Tractor               $60
   Utility saw           $35
   Weed eater            $35
   Zero-turn mower       $60
 
   (B)   All prices include labor and equipment and are on a per-hour basis.
Services performed will be billed out with a one-hour minimum fee, thereafter
the fees will be billed in half-hour increments. The Director of Public Works
will be responsible for forwarding billing charges to the City Secretary’s
office.
   (C)   Materials to be provided at the cost of the citizen and will be
charged based upon the city’s material cost.
   (D)   All requests for work to be performed must be:
      (1)   Initiated by property owner or responsible party within the ten-day
period, as required by §
90.01(B);
      (2)   In writing on a form approved by the city including a waiver of
liability releasing the city from any liability or damage incurred as a result
of work performed by city workers; and
      (3)   Signed by the responsible party requesting the work.
   (E)   Payment for work performed will be due and payable within 30 days from
date of work performed and may be invoiced through the city’s water billing
system or separately. If payment is not made within the 30-day period, the city
may proceed with collection efforts and/or lien against property, as authorized
by §
90.01.
   (F)   The following schedule of rates shall apply to all lots in non-
compliance mowed by the city, after proper notice of violation and time period
has passed and lot is found to still be in non-compliance:
Lot size              Service                                    Fee
                      Mowing and trimming only                   $200
Half-acre or less     Second time forced mowing at same property $300
                      Tree pruning, brush removal and the like   $50/hour
                      Disposal fee                               $30/yard
                      Mowing and trimming only                   $300
                      Second time forced mowing at same property $500
Half-acre to one acre Third and every subsequent time         $700
                      Tree pruning, brush removal and the like   $50/hour
                      Disposal fee                               $35/yard
                      Mowing and trimming only                   $300
                      Second time forced mowing at same property $500
Greater than one acre Third and every subsequent time         $700
                      Tree pruning, brush removal and the like   $50/hour
                      Disposal fee                               $35/yard
Administrative fees                                              $25
 
   (G)   The above fees will be charged for each lot, for each occurrence that
the lot is in non-compliance with §
90.01 of this code. The above rates and fees are meant to establish a base rate
for non-compliance with §
90.01 and shall also be used for calculation when filing a statement of expense
with the County Clerk of Jack County when a privileged lien against the
property is filed, as provided for by division (C) of said section.
   (H)   The City Council reserves the right to review and amend the rates
included in this section from time to time as needed, however may increase the
rates no more than once in any 12-month period.
(Ord. O-2025-01, passed 4-16-2025)
**** MOSQUITO CONTROL ****
§ 90.10 COLLECTION OF WATER TO BE TREATED; WHAT CONSTITUTES .
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to have, keep, maintain, cause or permit within
the city any collection of standing or flowing water in which mosquitoes breed
or are likely to breed, unless the collection of water is so treated as
effectually to prevent breeding.
   (B)   Any collections of water considered by division (A) above shall be
held to be those contained in ditches, pools, ponds, excavations, holes,
depressions, open cesspools, privy vaults, fountains, cisterns, tanks, shallow
wells, barrels, troughs (except horse troughs in frequent use), urns, cans,
boxes, bottles, tubs, buckets, defective house roof gutters, automobile tires,
tanks of flush closets or other similar water containers.
(Ord. O-2010-04, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 90.11 METHODS OF TREATMENT.
   The methods of treatment of collections of water directed toward the
prevention of breeding of mosquitoes shall be approved by the City Health
Officer, or other duly authorized agent, and shall be one or more of the
following:
   (A)   Screening with wire netting of at least 16 meshes to the inch each
way, or with any other material which will prevent the ingress of mosquitoes;
   (B)   Complete emptying every seven days of unscreened containers, together
with their thorough drying and cleaning;
   (C)   Using a larvicide approved by and applied under the direction of the
City Health Officer;
   (D)   Covering completely the surface of the water with kerosene, petroleum
or paraffin oil once every seven days;
   (E)   Cleaning and keeping sufficiently free of vegetable growth and other
obstructions and stocking with mosquito-destroying fish;
   (F)   Filling or draining to the satisfaction of the City Health Officer or
accredited representative; and/or
   (G)   Proper removal or destruction of tin cans, tin boxes, broken or empty
bottles, and similar containers likely to hold water.
(Ord. O-2010-04, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 90.12 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The natural presence of mosquito larvae or pupae in standing water shall be
sufficient evidence that mosquitoes are breeding there, and failure to prevent
the breeding within three days after notice by the City Health Officer,
authorized agent or representative, shall be deemed a violation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. O-2010-04, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 90.13 CITY TO TREAT AT COST OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   Should the person responsible for conditions giving rise to the breeding of
mosquitoes fail or refuse to take such measures necessary to prevent the same
within three days after notice has been given him or her by the City Health
Officer or authorized agent, the city is hereby authorized to do so, and all
necessary costs incurred by the city for this purpose shall be charged against
the property owner or other person offending and against the property.
(Ord. O-2010-04, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 90.14 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY.
   For the purpose of the provisions of this subchapter, the Health Officer or
his or her duly accredited agent acting under his or her authority may at all
reasonable times enter in and upon any premises within his or her jurisdiction,
and any person charged with any of his or her duties imposed by this subchapter
failing within the time designated by this subchapter or within the time stated
in the notice of the City Health Office, as the case may be, to perform such
duties or to carry out the necessary measures to the satisfaction of the City
Health Officer, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. O-2010-04, passed 7-12-2010)
**** JUNKED VEHICLES ****
§ 90.30 ADOPTION OF TEXAS JUNKED VEHICLE ACT.
   Texas Transportation Code, Chapter 683, Subchapter E, pertaining to junked
vehicles is hereby adopted and made effective as a municipal law, together with
the definitions recited in this subchapter and with the procedures established
therein.   
(Ord. O-2010-05, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 90.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply:
   ABANDONED NUISANCE VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is at least ten years old
and is of a condition only to be junked, crushed, or dismantled.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is inoperative and which does
not have lawfully affixed thereto both an unexpired license plate or plates and
a valid motor vehicle safety inspection sticker, and which is wrecked,
dismantled, partially dismantled or discarded, or that remains inoperable for a
continuous period of more than 45 days, with the exception of the following:
      (1)   Any motor vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or
constructed for racing or operation on privately-owned drag strips or raceways.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle retained by the owner as an antique auto (a
passenger car or truck that is at least 35 years old) for collection purposes
rather than for salvage or for transportation.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle retained by the owner as a special interest
vehicle (a motor vehicle of any age that has not been altered or modified from
original manufacture's specification) and is being preserved by him for its
historic interest rather than for salvage or for transportation.
      (4)   Any motor vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted,
constructed for or used in a farming or other agricultural type of activity.
      (5)   Any motor vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed
forces of the United States who is on active duty assignment.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motor driven or propelled vehicle required to be registered
under the laws of this state;
      (2)   A trailer or semitrailer, other than manufactured housing, that has
a gross vehicle weight that exceeds 4,000 pounds;
      (3)   A house trailer;
      (4)   An all-terrain vehicle or a recreational off-highway vehicle, as
those terms are defined by Texas Transportation Code, Section 502.001, designed
by the manufacturer for off-highway use that is not required to be registered
under the laws of this state; or
      (5)   A motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped that is not required to
be registered under the laws of this state, other than a motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle, or moped designed for and used exclusively on a golf course.
   MOTOR VEHICLE DEMOLISHER. A person in the business of:
      (1)   Converting motor vehicles into processed scrap or scrap metal; or
      (2)   Wrecking or dismantling motor vehicles.
   OUTBOARD MOTOR. An outboard motor subject to registration under Tex. Parks
and Wildlife Code, Chapter 31.
   STORAGE FACILITY. Includes a garage, parking lot, or establishment for the
servicing, repairing, or parking of motor vehicles.
   VEHICLE STORAGE FACILITY. A vehicle storage facility, as defined by Tex.
Occupations Code, Section 2303.002, that is operated by a person who holds a
license issued under Chapter 2303 of that code to operate that vehicle storage
facility.
   WATERCRAFT. A vessel subject to registration under Chapter 31, Tex. Parks
and Wildlife Code.
(Ord. O-2010-05, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 90.32 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Junked vehicles which are located in any place in the city where they
are visible from a public place or public right-of-way are declared to be
detrimental to the safety and welfare of the general public, tending to reduce
the value of private property, to invite vandalism, to create fire hazards, to
constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health and safety of
minors, and are detrimental to the economic welfare of the state and of this
city, by producing urban blight which is adverse to the maintenance and
continuing proper development of this municipality.
   (B)   Junked vehicles are therefore declared to be a public nuisance.
   (C)   Exemptions: This section shall not apply with regard to:
      (1)   Any junked motor vehicle, or a part thereof, which is parked or
stored within an enclosed building in a lawful manner where it is not visible
from the street or any other public or private property;
      (2)   Any junked motor vehicle, or part thereof, stored or parked in a
lawful manner on private property in connection with the business of a licensed
vehicle dealer or a junkyard;
      (3)   Any junked motor vehicle, or part thereof, parked in an appropriate
storage place or depository maintained at a location officially designated and
in a manner approved by the city.
(Ord. O-2010-05, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 90.33 ABATEMENT AND REMOVAL PROCEDURE.
   The following procedures are established for the abatement and removal of
junked vehicles or parts thereof, as public nuisances, from private property or
public property:
   (A)   Ten days written notice shall be given by any official, officer or a
duly authorized agent to be mailed by certified or registered mail with a five-
day return requested to the owner or the occupant of the premises whereupon the
public nuisance exists, stating the nature of the public nuisance and that it
must be removed and abated within ten days, and further that a request for a
hearing must be made in writing before the expiration of the ten-day period,
addressed to the Municipal Court. If the notice to remove or abate is returned
undelivered by the United States Post Office service, official action to abate
the nuisance shall be continued to a date not less than ten days from the date
of the return.
   (B)   (1)   A request for a public hearing shall be in writing and shall be
addressed to the Municipal Judge of the city, within ten days after service of
notice to abate the nuisance. A public hearing, when requested, shall be held
before the Judge of the Municipal Court.
      (2)   At the public hearing, the Municipal Judge shall hear and consider
all relevant evidence, objections and protests, and shall receive testimony
from the owner, witnesses, city personnel and interested persons relative to
the alleged public nuisance. The hearing may be continued from time to time.
   (C)   (1)   Following the public hearing, the Municipal Judge shall consider
all evidence to determine whether the vehicle or any part thereof constitutes a
public nuisance as alleged. If the municipal judge finds that a public nuisance
does exist and there is sufficient cause to abate the nuisance, and if the
notice requirements provided for herein have been met, the municipal judge
shall make a written order setting forth his or her findings and ordering that
the nuisance be abated.
      (2)   The order shall include a description of the vehicle and a correct
identification number if the information is available at the site of the
vehicle, and shall state that the vehicle shall be disposed of in accordance
with Tex. Transp. Code, Ch. 683, Subchapter E.
(Ord. O-2010-05, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 90.34 CANCEL OF CERTIFICATE OF TITLE UPON NOTIFICATION TO STATE.
   The city designate shall give to the Texas Highway Department, within five
days after the date of removal, a notice identifying the vehicle or part
thereof, which has been removed, and requesting that the Department shall
forthwith cancel the certificate of title to the vehicle.
(Ord. O-2010-05, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 90.35 DISPOSITION OF JUNKED VEHICLES OR PARTS.
   Junked vehicles or parts thereof shall be disposed of by removal to a
scrapyard, demolisher or to any suitable site operated for processing as scrap
or salvage, which process shall be consistent with Texas Transp. Code §
683.078.
(Ord. O-2010-05, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 90.36 ADMINISTRATION OF PROCEDURES.
   The administration of this subchapter shall be executed by regularly
salaried, fulltime employees of the city, except that the removal of vehicles
or parts thereof, from property may be by any other duly authorized person; and
that the Municipal Court of this city shall enact and enforce procedures and
issue orders necessary to enforce the procedures.
(Ord. O-2010-05, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 90.37 RIGHT OF ENTRY UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Any person authorized by the city to administer the provisions of this
subchapter shall be, and he or she hereby is, authorized to enter upon private
property at all reasonable times and confined to the purposes specified in this
subchapter to examine vehicles or parts thereof, obtain information as to the
identity of vehicles and to remove or to cause the removal of a vehicle or
parts thereof declared to be nuisance pursuant to this subchapter. The entry
shall be conducted efficiently and no person authorized under this subchapter
shall remain or stay on property beyond the time that is necessary to execute
their duty under this subchapter. The Municipal Court of this city shall have
the authority to issue all orders necessary to enforce this subchapter.
(Ord. O-2010-05, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 90.38 EFFECT OF STATE LAW AS TO TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall affect statutes that permit immediate
removal of a vehicle left on public property which constitutes an obstruction
to traffic.
(Ord. O-2010-05, passed 7-12-2010)
**** NOISE REGULATIONS ****
§ 90.50 INTENT AND POLICY OF CITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to minimize the exposure
of citizens to the physiological and psychological harm of excessive noise and
to protect, promote and preserve the public health, comfort, convenience,
safety and welfare. It is the express intent of the city to control the level
of noise in a manner which promotes commerce; protects the sleep and repose of
citizens; promotes the use, value and enjoyment of property; and preserves the
quality of the environment.
§ 90.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   DAYTIME HOURS. The hours between 7:00 a.m. on one day and 10:00 p.m. the
same day.
   Db(A). The intensity of a sound expressed in decibels read from a calibrated
sound level meter utilizing the A-level weighting scale and the slow meter
response, as specified by the applicable publications of the American National
Standards Institute or its successor body.
   EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage or loss which demands immediate
action.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating the physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an
emergency, or which is otherwise necessary to restore property to a safe
conditions following a fire, accident, or natural disaster, or which is
required to protect persons or property from exposure to danger, or which is
required to restore public utilities.
   NIGHTIME HOURS. The hours between 10:00 p.m. on one day and 7:00 a.m. the
following day.
   NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any real property within the limits of the city
which is not included in the definition of residential property.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, road,
thoroughfare, sidewalk, alley or other property which is owned or controlled by
a governmental entity.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any real property developed and used for human
habitation and which contains living facilities, including provisions for
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation, unless the premises are actually
occupied and used primarily for purposes other than human habitation.
   SOUND NUISANCES. Any sound which either exceeds the maximum permitted sound
levels specified in this subchapter, or otherwise unreasonably disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, and/or safety of a
person of ordinary sensibilities.
(Ord. O-2010-06, passed 10-11-2010)
§ 90.52 MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE SOUND LEVELS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, permit, or allow any activity or sound source
to produce a sound that is discernable beyond the property lines of the
property on which the sound is being received that when measured, as provided
in this subchapter, exceeds the applicable dB(A) level listed as follows for
the property on which the sound is received:
      (1)   Residential property:
         (a)   During daytime hours, 65 dB(A); and
         (b)   During nighttime hours, 60 dB(A).
      (2)   Nonresidential property: during either daytime or nighttime hours,
70 dB(A).
   (B)   The dB(A) levels set forth in this section apply to the property where
the sound is being received. Any sound that, when measured at the property
where the sound is being received, exceeds the dB(A) levels set forth in this
section is a violation of this section. Evidence that an activity or sound
source produces a sound that exceeds dB(A) levels specified in this section,
when measured at the site where the sound is being produced, if available,
shall be prima facie evidence of a sound nuisance which unreasonably disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of others
within the limits of the city in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. O-2010-06, passed 10-11-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.53 PROHIBITED ACTS, GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, assist in making, permit,
continue, cause to be made, or continue or permit the continuance of any sound
which either exceeds the maximum permitted sound levels specified or otherwise
unreasonably disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace, or safety of others within the limits of the city.
   (B)   The acts enumerated in the following sections of this subchapter,
among others, are declared to be sound nuisances which are unreasonably loud,
irritating, disturbing, or excessive sounds in violation of this subchapter,
but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive.
(Ord. O-2010-06, passed 10-11-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.54 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   The following sounds are hereby determined to be specific noises which can
constitute a noise disturbance, and violations are hereby defined:
   (A)   Noisy vehicles generally. The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or
other vehicle so out of repair, so loaded, or in such a manner so as to create
loud and unreasonable grating, grinding, rattling, squealing, screeching, or
any other loud and unreasonable sound is hereby prohibited and declared to be
unlawful.
   (B)   Amplified sound from motor vehicle. The production or reproduction of
sound from amplification equipment contained in or mounted on a motor vehicle
that produces sound in excess of limits set forth in this ordinance, when
measured at or near 30 feet from the nearest external point on the vehicle, or
otherwise produces noises which are unreasonably loud, irritating, or
disturbing, are hereby prohibited and declared to be unlawful as a sound
nuisance in violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Animals. The keeping of any animal which barks, whines, howls, crows,
cackles, or makes any noise excessively and continuously, and the noise
disturbs a person of ordinary sensibilities, is hereby prohibited and declared
to be unlawful as a sound nuisance in violation of this subchapter, regardless
of whether the sound so created by the animal or bird is within the permissible
levels specified in this ordinance.
   (D)   Refuse collection. The collection of garbage, waste, or refuse during
nighttime hours in any residential area.
   (E)   Emergency signaling devices. The intentional sounding or permitting
the sounding outdoors of any burglar or civil defense alarm, whistle, or
similar stationary emergency signaling device for more than five minutes during
any consecutive 60-minute period except for the sound caused in the performance
of emergency or public service work, including public utility operations,
acting to protect the health, safety, or welfare of the community.
(Ord. O-2010-06, passed 10-11-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.55 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   The following defenses shall apply to any offense established herein:
   (A)   The emission of any sound was for the purpose of alerting persons to
the existence of an emergency;
   (B)   The sound was produced by an authorized emergency vehicle;
   (C)   The sound was produced by emergency work necessary to restore public
utilities, or to restore property to a safe condition, or to protect persons or
property from imminent danger, following a fire, accident, or natural disaster;
   (D)   The sound was generated:
      (1)   At a lawfully scheduled stadium event;
      (2)   By a parade and spectators and participants on the parade route
during a permitted parade;
      (3)   By spectators and participants of any outdoor event, fun run, race,
festival, or concert which was sponsored, cosponsored, or permitted by the
city; or
      (4)   A governmental entity, as defined by Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, §
271.021(2).
   (E)   The sound was produced by the erection, excavation, construction,
demolition, alteration, or repair work, or the permitting or causing the
operation of any tools or equipment used in any such activity conducted during
daytime hours and which activity did not produce a sound exceeding the maximum
permissible sound level for residential property when measured from the nearest
residential property where sound is being received;
   (F)   The sound was produced by aircraft in flight or in operation at an
airport, or railroad equipment in operation on a railroad right-of-way;
   (G)   The sound was produced by operating or permitting the operation of any
mechanically powered saw, drill, sander, router, grinder, lawn or garden tool,
lawnmower, or any other similar device used during daytime hours and which
device did not produce a sound exceeding the maximum permissible sound level on
residential property when measured from the nearest residential property where
the sound is being received and was used for the maintenance or upkeep of the
property on which it was used; and/or
   (H)   The sound was produced by the operation of any air conditioning unit
which did not produce a sound exceeding the maximum permissible sound level as
designated for residential property and nonresidential property, when measured
at or near 15 feet from the air conditioning unit producing the sound being
measured.
(Ord. O-2010-06, passed 10-11-2010)
§ 90.56 METHODS OF SOUND MEASUREMENT.
   Whenever portions of this subchapter prohibit sound over a certain decibel
limit, measurement of the sound shall be made with a type 1 or type 2
calibrated sound level meter utilizing the A-weighting scale and the slow meter
response as specified by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI S 1/
4 1984/85A). Noise levels shall be measured in decibels and A-weighted. The
unit of measurement shall be designated dB(A). Meters shall be maintained in
calibration and good working order. Calibrations shall be employed which meet
ANSI S 1.40 1984 prior to and immediately after every sampling of sound.
Measurements recorded shall be taken so as to provide proper representation of
the sound being measured. The microphone of the meter shall be positioned so as
not to create any unnatural enhancement or diminution of the measured sound. A
windscreen for the microphone shall be used.
(Ord. O-2010-06, passed 10-11-2010)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing provisions, any person, firm or
corporation, partnership, association of persons, owner, agent or anyone having
supervision or control over any lot, tract or parcel of land, or portion
thereof, failing to abate a nuisance as prescribed in §
90.01, within ten days’ receipt of notice of the nuisance, commits a criminal
offense and, if found guilty, may be fined a sum of money not to exceed $200.
Each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
90.02 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be
fined in a sum not to exceed $100.
(Ord. 13, passed 5-28-1937; Ord. 173, passed 9-8-2008)
   (D)   Any person, firm, association of persons, company, corporation or
their agents, servants, or employees violating or failing to comply with any of
the provisions of §§
90.50 through 
9.56 shall be fined upon conviction not less than $100 nor more than $2,000,
and each day any violation of non- compliance continues shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. O-2010-06, passed 10-11-2010)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Running at large; livestock
   
91.02   Wild animals
   
91.03   Dog and cat vaccination.
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Vaccination of dogs and cats required, see Tex. Health and Safety Code §
826.021
§ 91.01 RUNNING AT LARGE; LIVESTOCK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having control or charge of
any horses, mules, donkey, cow, bull, steer, hog, sheep, goat or any other
livestock to permit the same to run at large on any public street, alley or
other public grounds within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 15, passed 8-2-1937) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense of he or she owns, possesses or harbors a
wild animal within the city limits of the city. There shall be a separate
offense for each wild animal involved.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      WILD ANIMAL. Lion, tiger, ocelot, cougar, leopard, cheetah, jaguar,
hyena, bear, lesser panda, binturong, wolf, ape, elephant, skunk, lynx, ferret,
opossum, panther, poisonous or dangerous reptiles, or any other animal which
can normally be found in the wild state, not normally capable of being
domesticated unless certified for medical, biological, herpetological or other
scientific research or study.
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to an “exhibitor”
within the meaning of § 2(h) of the Federal Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. §
2132h) who holds a Class “C” exhibitor’s license issued by the Secretary of
Agriculture pursuant to that Act.
(Ord. 154, passed 9-8-1997) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 DOG AND CAT VACCINATION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following words
shall have the following meanings unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning:
   BITE. The physical act of a dog encircling or attempting to encircle or
ensnare any part of the human anatomy or another animal’s anatomy with its
mouth, whether or not the dog actually accomplishes that act and regardless of
whether skin is actually broken.
   CAT. A domesticated feline of either sex, including one neutered or
sterilized.
   DOG. A domesticated canine of either sex, including one neutered or
sterilized. ADULT DOG means any dog over the age of six months.
   HARBORING. The act of keeping and caring for an animal or of providing a
premise to which the animal returns regularly.
   LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITY. The reporting agent or his or her designee, as
determined by the City Council, for the purpose of rabies control, whose duties
consist of the following:
      (1)   Receiving reports of animal bites and scratches to humans;
      (2)   Receiving reports of suspected rabid animals;
      (3)   Investigation of reported animal bites and scratches and suspected
rabid animals;
      (4)   Ordering quarantine, if appropriate, of any animal which may have
exposed an individual to rabies or which may be rabid;
      (5)   Enforcement of all ordinances and/or rules of the city pertaining
to rabies and animal control;
      (6)   Enforcement of the provisions of state law and administrative rules
of the Texas Board of Health pertaining to rabies and animal control.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, or corporation having title to any animal(s); or
who has, harbors, or keeps, or who causes or permits to be harbored or kept, an
animal in his or her care, or who permits an animal to remain on or about his
or her premises.
   RUN AT-LARGE. Not completely confined by a building, wall, or fence of
sufficient strength or construction to restrain the dog except when such dog is
either on a leash or held in the hands of the owner or keeper, or under
supervision of the owner within the limits of the owner’s private property. An
animal not under restraint and intruding upon the property of a person other
than its owner shall be termed “running at-large.” An animal within an
automobile or other vehicle of its owner shall not be deemed “running at-
large.”
   STRAY ANIMAL. Any animal for which there is not an identifiable owner or
harborer or any animal which does not exhibit evidence of vaccination and/or
license.
   VACCINATED. Properly injected with a rabies vaccine licensed for use in that
species by the United States Department of Agriculture and administered by a
veterinarian licensed to practice in the state.
      (1)   The animal must be at least three months of age at the time of
vaccination.
      (2)   Not more than 12 months shall have elapsed since the most recent
vaccination.
   (B)   Registration of dogs and cats required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or cat over the age
of three months to keep or maintain said animal within the city limits without
registering said animal with the city and paying the registration fee of $5 per
animal annually, as set forth in this section. This registration herein
described shall be dated as of the date fee is collected and shall be renewable
on each anniversary date thereafter, upon payment of the required fee.
      (2)   At the time of the payment of the above described dog or cat
registration fee, the owner of said animal shall:
         (a)   Present proof of current vaccination in the form of a written,
dated, and signed paper certificate of anti-rabies vaccination by a registered
veterinarian duly licensed to practice by the state Board of Veterinary Medical
Examiners; and
         (b)   Submit completed written application on form as provided by
city, stating name and address of owner or keeper of said animal containing a
description of the color, breed, sex, and weight of said animal, together with
the kind and amount of vaccine used and the date of administration, and certify
that said dog or cat was so vaccinated and immunized against rabies.
      (3)   Upon presentation of the certificate, as required, and payment of
the fee as set forth above, the owner shall receive a license tag stamped with
the year for which the same is paid and an identification number which shall be
assigned to said animal to which it is issued. Such tag shall be at all times
securely attached to a collar around the neck of the dog or cat for which said
registration is paid. If the tag is subsequently lost, a replacement tag shall
be issued for a fee of $5. No refunds shall be made on any license fee because
of the death of the animal or its removal from the city before the expiration
date of the license period.
      (4)   Registration fee shall be reduced to $3 per animal annually for
persons over the age of 60 when proper identification is presented verifying
age of owner.
      (5)   Registration fee shall be waived for dogs serving the handicapped
or governmental dogs used for law enforcement.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any metal tag issued
under the provisions of this section from any dog or cat without the written
consent of the owner of such dog or cat.
   (C)   Limitation on numbers of pets.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, or shelter
more than five dogs and/or cats or any combination thereof, plus one litter to
age of three months, within the city, without a written permit. Any person
desiring to keep, maintain, or shelter more than five dogs or cats plus one
litter to age three months shall make a written request to the city for a
permit to keep a specified number of animals at a specified location. Only one
permit may be exercised on a lot or parcel of real property. Said lot or parcel
or real property shall be at least one acre in size. The city may issue such
permit if it determines that such person has a proper and adequate enclosure in
which to keep the dogs and/or cats, and a proper and sanitary shelter for the
animals.
      (2)   A permit may be revoked by the city in the event either of the
above criteria is not maintained, if the permittee is convicted of any
violation of this section, if any one of the dogs is on two separate occasions
found at-large by an animal control officer, or if the city determines that the
animals have become a nuisance.
      (3)   The fee for the permit shall be $5 in addition to the registration
fees previously established and may be adjusted from time to time by ordinance
as city council may see fit to ensure adequate funding for the administration
of this section.
      (4)   The limitations of division (C) of this section shall not apply to
dogs or cats kept upon the business premises of any veterinarian, kennel,
animal shelter, pet shop, or nonprofit animal welfare organization group.
   (D)   Rabies control.
      (1)   The city hereby adopts Chapter 826 of the Tex. Health and Safety
Code, the Rabies Control Act of 1981.
      (2)   The local health authority for the city may be the county health
officer, municipal health officer, animal control officer, peace officer, or
any entity that the City Council considers appropriate.
   (E)   Unlawful for animals to run at-large. It shall be unlawful for any
person who owns, harbors, or keeps any dog or cat within the corporate limits
of the city to permit that animal to run at-large within the corporate limits
of the city. A stray dog or cat running at-large is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance.
   (F)   Unlawful for dogs to bite.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a dog to bite within the corporate limits
of the city. An owner shall be liable for a Class C misdemeanor for a dog’s
violation of division (F) of this section and punished as the Municipal Court
directs as provided for by §
91.99.
      (2)   It shall be an affirmative defense to division (F) of this section
if an owner shows that the dog bit while on the owner’s property, and the dog
was properly fenced, restrained, or leashed, and bit only in response to the
victim’s unlawful trespass or provocation.
      (3)   A postal worker, meter reader, police officer or any other person
who is on the owner’s property through a routine performance of his or her
duties will not constitute an unlawful trespass.
   (G)   City may impound, destroy animal.
      (1)   Any animal found to be in violation of this section may be
impounded by the city. The owner shall be liable for any costs associated with
the impounding of the animal. The city may impound the animal by its own direct
action or seek other local governmental or county governmental assistance in
this regard.
      (2)   Upon five days notice to the owner at his or her last known
address, the city may apply to the Justice Court of the county to destroy the
animal shown to be vicious or dangerous to humans or other animals.
      (3)   The five days notice requirement may be waived by the city if it is
shown that the animal is rabid. The Municipal Court upon the showing that the
animal has clinical signs of rabies, may destroy the animal. Any charge for
this determination, as well as for the cost of a veterinarian to testify to
this can be charged against the owner.
(Ord. O-2010-21, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
91.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be fined in
any sum not exceeding $200; and each day that any animal as aforesaid is
allowed or permitted to run at large on any public street, alley or other
public grounds in this city shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   An offense under §
91.02(A) is punishable by a fine of not less than $200 or more than $2,000.
      (2)   If a person is found guilty of an offense under §
91.02(A), the Council shall order the forfeiture of the wild animal(s) involved
in the offense to the animal control authority for the city or if none, to the
County Sheriff or his or her designated agent.
      (3)   In addition to criminal prosecution, a person who commits an
offense under §
91.02(A) is also liable for a penalty not to exceed $1,000 for each day of the
violation. An attorney having civil jurisdiction in this county may file suit
in a court of competent jurisdiction to collect the civil penalty. Civil
penalties collected under this division (C)(3) shall be retained by the city.
(Ord. 15, passed 8-2-1937; Ord. 154, passed 9-8-1997)
   (D)   (1)   A violation of §
91.03 shall constitute a Class C Misdemeanor.
      (2)   The owner of any animal found to be in violation of any part of §
91.03 shall be fined an amount not less than $25 nor more than $500; provided,
however, that if it be shown that an owner has been previously convicted under
§
91.03, the owner shall be fined an amount not less than $50, and shall be fined
an amount not less that $100 for a third or more conviction.
      (3)   This penalty is cumulative of any other remedy provided under this
§
91.03.
      (4)   Each day that a violation occurs shall be deemed to be a separate
offense.
      (5)   The Municipal Court of the city may order restitution for charges
incurred against the owner in addition to any other remedy or penalty ordered
against the owner.
(Ord. O-2010-21, passed 12-13-2010)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Prohibited conduct
Parks and Recreation Board
   
92.15   Creation; terms; compensation
   
92.16   Dual office holding limitations
   
92.17   Procedures
   
92.18   Duties
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Juvenile curfew, see §
130.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. The meaning assigned by the Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code
§ 1.04.
   CITY. The City of Bryson, Texas.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Bryson, Texas.
   LITTER. The meaning assigned by the Tex. Health and Safety Code § 365.011.
   PUBLIC PARK. Any land designated, used, obtained or acquired by the city for
use as a public park, recreation or playground area, and any building of
facility thereon, operated by the city as a public park, recreation or
playground area, whether or not the areas have been formally dedicated to that
purpose.
(Ord. 151, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 92.02 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   Except as may be otherwise specifically provided, a person commits an
offense if, within the limits of any public park, the person intentionally or
knowingly:
   (A)   Discharges a firearm or other deadly weapon;
   (B)   Possesses, carries, displays or consumes an alcoholic beverage;
   (C)   Disposes or allows or permits the disposal of litter in a place that
is not an officially designated refuse container or disposal unit; or
   (D)   Makes an excessive or unreasonable noise.
(Ord. 151, passed 8-11-1997)
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 92.15 CREATION; TERMS; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   A Parks and Recreation Board is hereby established and created and
shall consist of five members. Members shall be residents within the City
Independent School District and appointed by the City Council. Members shall be
appointed to serve two-year terms with the first Board to consist of three two-
year terms and two one-year terms. All subsequent members shall serve for two-
year terms.
   (B)   Terms shall begin effective July 1, 2009 and upcoming terms shall be
reappointed in June of each year to be effective each July 1 of each year.
Members of the Board shall serve without pay.
(Ord. 182, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 92.16 DUAL OFFICE HOLDING LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No member of the Parks and Recreation Board may be an employee of the
municipality or a current City Council member.
   (B)   Board members may serve on no more than two boards of the municipality
at one time.
(Ord. 182, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 92.17 PROCEDURES.
   The Board shall select from among its members a Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson and may adopt, subject to the approval of the City Council, the
rules and regulations for the government of its proceedings as it may deem
proper. The Board shall be required to meet at least quarterly on the first
Mondays of January, April, July and October of each year and provide reports to
the Mayor and Council prior to that month’s City Council Meeting for approval.
The Board may meet more often as deemed necessary by the Chairperson.
(Ord. 182, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 92.18 DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Parks and Recreation Board to:
      (1)   Recommend policies and procedures for the proper administration of
the parks and recreation program of the municipality subject to the approval of
the Council;
      (2)   Establish guidelines to be followed by Little League, the Bryson
Independent School District, the public and any other organizations that may
have an interest in use of any parks or recreational facilities of the
municipality;
      (3)   Encourage and facilitate the establishment and maintenance of
parks, playgrounds and other park and recreational facilities of the properties
owned and controlled by the municipality or on private or public properties
with the consent of the owners and mangers thereof;
      (4)   Recommend acquisition by the municipality of the land and buildings
as are deemed necessary for a parks and recreation program;
      (5)   Study and submit recommendations for improvement and expansion of
the parks and recreation facilities and programs of the municipality for final
approval by Council for the dispersal of funds;
      (6)   Cooperate with all agencies, groups and clubs concerned with
recreation in the municipality;
      (7)   Organize and oversee volunteer work days for park improvements; and
      (8)   Make the studies concerning parks and recreation as may be
requested by the Council.
   (B)   The Parks and Recreation Board shall have additional duties as may be
conferred on the Board by ordinance.
(Ord. 182, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §§
92.01 or
92.02 shall be guilty of a criminal offense punishable by a fine not to exceed
$500 for each offense.
(Ord. 151, passed 8-11-1997)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS
Section
   
93.01   General provisions
   
93.02   Permits for discharge of fireworks
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Except as permitted by §
93.02, it shall be unlawful for any person owning or having control or charge
of any amount of any type of explosive fireworks to permit the sale, handling
or exploding of the same in or at their place of business in the streets or
anywhere else, including private or public grounds, within the corporate limits
of the city.
(Ord. 104, passed 8-14-1978)
§ 93.02 PERMITS FOR DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Any adult 21 years of age or older may be issued a permit for
supervised public displays of fireworks. An application permit shall be made in
writing at least ten days in advance of the date of display to the City
Marshal, City Fire Marshal or other city designated official, setting forth the
nature of fireworks to be delivered or discharged, safety procedures to be
observed, and posting of bond or policy of insurance naming city as loss payee,
or additional loss payee in an amount satisfactory to the City Marshal, City
Fire Marshal, or other city designated official.
   (B)   The City Marshal, City Fire Marshal or other city designated official
shall issue a permit by letter stating the time, date, place and safety
measures to be observed for the delivery or discharge of the fireworks.
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
93.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be fined in
any sum not to exceed $200; and each day that any such possession, sale or
exploding as aforesaid is allowed or permitted anywhere in this city shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 104, passed 8-14-1978)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
94.03   Financing of housing; discrimination
   
94.04   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
94.05   Exemptions and exclusions
   
94.06   Fair Housing Administrator
   
94.07   Complaints
   
94.08   Investigation
   
94.09   Cumulative legal effect
   
94.10   Unlawful intimidation
   
94.11   Cooperation with Secretary of HUD
   
94.12   Education and public information
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
94.02,
94.03 or
94.04 below.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed and intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more families
or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees,
fiduciaries and any other organization or entity of whatever character.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 135, passed 5-11-1987)
§ 94.02 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   Except as exempted by §
94.05 below, it shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell or rent, after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, sex, religion or
national origin;
   (B)   Discrimination against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of service or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, sex, religion or
national origin;
   (C)   Make, print, publish or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement or advertisement regarding the sale or rental of a dwelling
that includes any preference, limitation or discrimination based on race,
color, sex, religion or national origin, or an intention to make any
preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   Represent to any person because of race, color, sex, religion or
national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or
rental when the dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)   For profit, or with the hope or expectation of profit, include or
attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any dwelling by representations
regarding the entry or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or
persons of a particular race, color, sex, religion or national origin; or
   (F)   For profit, or with the hope or expectation of profit to influence or
attempt to influence, by any words, acts or failure to act, any seller,
purchaser, landlord or tenant of a dwelling so as to promote the maintenance of
racially segregated housing or as to retard, obstruct or discourage racially
integrated housing.
(Ord. 135, passed 5-11-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 FINANCING OF HOUSING; DISCRIMINATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part of the making of commercial or residential real
estate loans, to deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying
therefore for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or to discriminate against any such person in the
fixing of the amount, interest rate, brokerage points, duration or other terms
or conditions of the loan or other financial assistance, because of:
   (A)   The race, color, sex, religion or national origin of the person or of
any person associated with him or her in connection with the loan or other
financial assistance; or
   (B)   The race, color, sex, religion or national origin of the present or
prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings
for which the loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given.
(Ord. 135, passed 5-11-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deny access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate in the terms or
conditions of the access, membership or participation, on account of race,
color, sex, religion or national origin.
(Ord. 135, passed 5-11-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   There shall be exempted from the application of §
94.02 above all transactions involving:
      (1)   The rental of units in dwellings containing living quarters
occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living
independently of each other if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of
the units as his or her residence;
      (2)   The rental of a single room in a dwelling containing living
quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than one family if the
person offering the room for rental actually maintains and occupies the
remainder of the dwelling as his or her residence and not more than four rooms
are offered; and
      (3)   The sale or rental of any single house by a private individual who
owns the house, provided that:
         (a)   The sale or rental is made without the use in any manner of the
sales or rental facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate
broker, agent or salesperson, or of the facilities or services of any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent, salesperson or person;
         (b)   The sale is made without the publication, posting or mailing of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
94.02(C) above (this shall not prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow agents,
abstractors, title companies and other professional assistance as necessary to
perfect or transfer the title);
         (c)   The owner does not own more than three single-family houses at
the time of the sale;
         (d)   The owner does not own any interest in, nor is there owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement, title
to or any right to all or any portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental
of more than three single-family houses at any one time; and
         (e)   If the owner does not reside in the house at the time of sale or
was not the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale, the exemption
granted by this division shall apply only with respect to one sale within any
24-month period.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society or any non- profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious association, or
society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to those persons, unless membership in the
religion is restricted on account of race, color, sex or national origin.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a bona fide private club, not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose,
provides lodging which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose,
from limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodgings to its members or from
giving preference to its members.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall bar any person from owning and operating
a housing accommodation in which a room or rooms are leased, subleased or
rented only to persons of the same sex, when the housing accommodation contains
common lavatory, kitchen or similar facilities available for the use of all
persons occupying the housing accommodation.
(Ord. 135, passed 5-11-1987)
§ 94.06 FAIR HOUSING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Mayor shall appoint and Council shall confirm a Fair Housing
Administrator (hereinafter referred to as “Administrator”), who shall have the
responsibility for implementing this chapter. The Administrator may delegate
his or her authority to investigate and conciliate complaints to other city
employees under his or her direction.
(Ord. 135, passed 5-11-1987)
§ 94.07 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Only the person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory
housing practice who believes he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that has occurred or is occurring (hereinafter
referred to as “person aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the Administrator.
The complaints shall be in writing and shall identify the person alleged to
have committed or alleged to be committing a discriminatory housing practice
and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a discriminatory
housing practice are based. The Administrator shall prepare complaint forms and
furnish them without charge to any person, upon request.
   (B)   If at any time the Administrator shall receive or discover credible
evidence and shall have probable cause to believe that any person or persons
have committed or are committing a discriminatory housing practice as to which
no complaint has been filed, the Administrator may prepare and file a complaint
upon his or her own motion and in his or her own name and the complaint shall
thereafter be treated in the same manner as a complaint filed by a person
aggrieved.
   (C)   The Administrator shall receive and accept notification and referral
complaints from the U.S. Attorney General and the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development pursuant to the provisions of Title VII, Fair Housing Act of
1968, Pub. L. 90-284, being 42 USC 3601 et seq., and shall treat the complaints
hereunder in the same manner as complaints filed pursuant to division (A)
above.
   (D)   All complaints shall be filed within 60 days following the occurrence
of an alleged discriminatory housing practice. Upon the filing or referral of
any complaint, the Administrator shall provide notice of the complaint by
furnishing a copy of the complaint to the persons named therein who allegedly
committed or were threatening to commit an alleged discriminatory housing
practice. The accused may file an answer to the complaint within 15 days of
receipt of the written complaint.
   (E)   All complaints and answers shall be subscribed and sworn to before an
officer authorized to administer oaths.
(Ord. 135, passed 5-11-1987)
§ 94.08 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Upon the filing or referral of a complaint as herein provided, the
Administrator shall cause to be made a prompt and full investigation of the
matter stated in the complaint.
   (B)   During or after the investigation, but subsequent to the mailing of
the notice of complaint, the Administrator shall, if it appears that a
discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is threatening to occur,
attempt by informal endeavors to effect conciliation, including voluntary
discontinuance of the discriminatory housing practice and adequate assurance of
future voluntary compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Nothing said
or done in the course of the informal endeavors may be made public by the
Administrator, by the complainant or by any other party to the proceedings
without the written consent of all persons concerned.
   (C)   Upon completion of the investigation and informal endeavors at
conciliation by the Administrator, but within 30 days of the filing of the
complaint with the Administrator, if the efforts of the Administrator to secure
voluntary compliance have been unsuccessful, and if the Administrator has made
a determination that a discriminatory housing practice has in fact occurred,
the Administrator shall recommend to the City Attorney that the violation be
prosecuted in the municipal court of the city.
      (1)   With that recommendation, the Administrator shall refer his or her
entire file to the City Attorney. The City Attorney shall, within 30 days after
the referral make a determination as to whether to proceed with prosecution of
the complaint in municipal court.
      (2)   If the City Attorney determines to prosecute, he or she shall
institute a complaint and prosecute same to conclusion within 30 days after the
determination or as soon thereafter as practicable.
(Ord. 135, passed 5-11-1987)
§ 94.09 CUMULATIVE LEGAL EFFECT.
   This chapter is cumulative in its legal effect and is not in lieu of any and
all other legal remedies which the person aggrieved may pursue.
(Ord. 135, passed 5-11-1987)
§ 94.10 UNLAWFUL INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to harass, threaten, harm, damage or
otherwise penalize any individual, group or business because he or she or they
have complied with the provisions of this chapter, because he or she or they
have exercised his or her or their rights under this chapter, or enjoyed the
benefits of this chapter, or because he or she or they have made a charge,
testified or assisted in any manner in any investigation, or in any proceeding
hereunder or have made any report to the Administrator.
(Ord. 135, passed 5-11-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 COOPERATION WITH SECRETARY OF HUD.
   The Administrator and the City Attorney are directed to cooperate with the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the U.S. Attorney General
pursuant to the provisions of Title VII, Fair Housing Act of 1968, Pub. L. 90-
284, being 42 USC 3601 et seq., and shall provide for a referral system of
housing discrimination complaints filed with the city to the HUD regional
office and shall provide for legal counsel to those complainants who wish to
file a private suit for relief.
(Ord. 135, passed 5-11-1987)
§ 94.12 EDUCATION AND PUBLIC INFORMATION.
   In order to further the objectives of this chapter, the Administrator may
conduct educational and public information programs.
(Ord. 135, passed 5-11-1987)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined a sum not
to exceed $200 for each violation. Each day a violation continues after passage
of 75 days from date of the filing of the initial complaint with the
Administrator shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. Any person,
firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter may be enjoined by
a suit filed by the city in a court of competent jurisdiction, and this remedy
is in addition to any other penalty provision.
(Ord. 135, passed 5-11-1987)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Bingo games
   
110.02   Plumbing business
   
110.03   Recreation halls
§ 110.01 BINGO GAMES.
   Bingo games sponsored by non-profit organizations are now legal and may be
played at any time the organization so desires.
(Ord. 122, passed 4-4-1983)
§ 110.02 PLUMBING BUSINESS.
   (A)   All plumbers or firm of plumbers or corporations in the plumbing
business, who desire to do sewer plumbing within the corporate limits of the
city, shall at the time of filing petition for a license to do business in
connection with the city sewer system, pay to the City Secretary the sum of $10
as an occupation tax for plumbers.
   (B)   No occupation tax receipt will be issued nor fee accepted until
required bond signed by an approved surety company is registered with the city.
   (C)   The fact that the sewerage system of the city is now completed in part
and that the intending patrons thereof are desirous of making immediate
connection therewith while the streets are already torn up to install the
system and that there are now no rules and regulations governing connections
herewith, creates an imperative public necessity that the rules requiring
ordinances to be read at more than one meeting be dispensed with and that this
section shall effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval.
(Ord. 20, passed 2-6-1939)
§ 110.03 RECREATION HALLS.
   All recreation halls operating pinball machines, foosball machines,
billiards and the like, must close doors by 11:00 p.m. on week nights and 12:00
midnight on Fridays and Saturdays and remain closed until regular business
hours on following morning. Week nights are Sunday through Thursday nights.
(Ord. 88, passed 3-11-1974)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   City policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
111.12   Prohibited solicitation
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the city.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof. Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk. This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the city, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts, will
constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter. The license shall contain the words "Licensed Peddler" or
"Licensed Solicitor," the expiration date of the license, and the number of the
license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such time as he is
engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 CITY POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupants of the
residences in the city shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
"NO SOLICITORS INVITED"
   (B)   The letters shall be at least 1/3-inch in height. For the purpose of
uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to persons
requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 111.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the city upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states "NO SOLICITORS INVITED," then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
      
131.   DRUG OFFENSES
      
132.   HUNTING; DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Permit for signs on or over public property
   
130.02   Posting advertising matter on utility poles
   
130.03   Open wells
   
130.04   Juvenile curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   Pursuant to Tex. Penal Code § 1.08, “No government subdivision or agency may
enact or enforce a law that makes any conduct covered by the [Texas Penal Code]
an offense subject to a criminal penalty . . . .” Therefore, offenses contained
in the Texas Penal Code have preempted duplicative municipal ordinances. This
chapter only contains offenses that have not been addressed in the Texas Penal
Code.
§ 130.01 PERMIT FOR SIGNS ON OR OVER PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect any sign which will
project or extend over any street, alley, sidewalk or other public property, or
which will be supported by a pole, pipe or other support located or set on any
street, alley, sidewalk or other public property, without first obtaining a
permit to do so from the City Secretary.
   (B)   Application for the permit shall be filed with the City Secretary, and
shall set forth the proposed location of the sign, the material out of which
same is to be constructed, its dimensions, the exact location of the pole, pipe
or other support, if located on city property, and the height of the sign,
measured from the bottom of the sign to the ground.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued unless the application is approved by the
Mayor.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 POSTING ADVERTISING MATTER ON UTILITY POLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tack, tie or in any other manner
fasten upon any electric light pole, telephone or telegraph pole, or street
light in the municipality any poster, placard or other advertising matter for a
period of time longer than 60 days or for more than ten days after the date of
the event being advertised.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 OPEN WELLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any well, cistern or other
excavation to be or remain open or uncovered to the danger of others, on any
premises owned, controlled or occupied by him or her.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 JUVENILE CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
      (1)   CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   From 11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
         (b)   From 12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday.
      (2)   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not
limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any
situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury and/or
loss of life.
      (3)   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      (4)   GUARDIAN.  
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      (5)   MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      (6)   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or
corporation operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term
includes the members or partners of a partnership or association, and the
officers of a corporation, and any adult employee in charge of its operation.
      (7)   PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent of a minor; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      (8)   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or substantial group of
the public has access. The term includes, but is not limited to, streets,
alleys, highways and the common areas of schools, parks, hospitals, apartment
houses, office buildings, transport facilities and shops.
      (9)   REMAIN. Shall mean to:
         (a)   Linger or stay on or in premises; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
      (10)   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial
risk of death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or
protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor, or other adult person having care
and custody of a minor, commits an offense if he or she knowingly permits, or
by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      (3)   The owner, operator or any other adult person or employee in charge
of any establishment commits an offense if he or she does knowingly allow a
minor to remain upon the premises of the establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   Defenses.
      (1)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B) that the minor
was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor, providing the neighbor did not complain to
the Police Department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from such activity, without any detour or stop;
         (h)   Exercising rights protected by the First Amendment of the United
States Constitution, such as free exercise of religion. freedom of speech, or
the right of a peaceable assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married, or had otherwise had the
disabilities of minority removed in accordance with Tex. Family Code, Ch. 31.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) above, if the
owner, operator, or other adult person or employee in charge of an
establishment promptly notified the Police Department that a minor was present
on the premises of the establishment during curfew hours and the minor refused
to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
an officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the
public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under
this chapter unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
division (C) is present.
   (E)   Review of curfew ordinance. This section shall be reviewed every third
year prior to May of such year as required by Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code 370.002.
The first review shall be conducted no later than April 30, 2013 and every
third year thereafter. Such review shall be conducted following a public
hearing regarding the need to continue the section and the City Council shall
have the option to continue, abolish or modify the section based upon their
review of the section’s effects on the community and on the problems the
section is intended to remedy.
(Ord. O-2010-03, passed 4-15-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A person who violates §
130.04 is guilty of a separate offense for each day or part of a day during
which the violation is committed, continued, or permitted. Each offense, upon
conviction or plea, is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
      (2)   When required by the Tex. Family Code, § 51.08, as amended, the
Municipal Court shall waive original jurisdiction over the minor who violates
this chapter and shall refer the minor to juvenile court.
(Ord. O-2010-03, passed 4-15-2010)
CHAPTER 131: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
Synthetic Cannabinoids
   
131.01   Purpose
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Sale, offer, gift, display, or possession
   
131.04   Illegal ingestion device
   
131.05   Defenses to prosecution
 
   
131.99   Penalty
**** SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS ****
§ 131.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to prohibit the use, sale, possession,
ingestion, or smoking of illegal smoking products and ingestion devices
hereinafter defined within the city limits.
(Ord. O-2010-08, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ILLEGAL INGESTION DEVICE. Any paraphernalia, equipment, or utensil that is
used or intended to be used in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing an
illegal smoking product into the human body and may include:
      (1)   A metal wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipe
with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or punctured metal
bowl;
      (2)   A water pipe;
      (3)   A carburetion tube or device;
      (4)   A smoking or carburetion mask;
      (5)   A chamber pipe;
      (6)   A carburetor pipe;
      (7)   An electric pipe;
      (8)   An air-driven pipe;
      (9)   A chillum;
      (10)   A bong; or
      (11)   An ice pipe or chiller.
   ILLEGAL SMOKING PRODUCT.
      (1)   Any substance however marketed which can reasonably be converted
for smoking purposes, whether it is presented as incense, tobacco, herbs,
spices, or any blend thereof if it includes any of the following chemicals or a
comparable chemical:
         (a)   Salvia divinorum or Salvinorin A – all parts of the plant
presently classified botanically as salvia divinorum, whether growing or not,
the seeds thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its
seeds, or extracts;
         (b)   2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl) phenol
(also known as CP47,497) and homologues;
         (c)   (6aS,10aS)-9-(hydroxymethyl) – 6,6-dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-
yl)-6a, 7, 10, 10a-tetrahydrobenzo [c] chromen-1-ol) (also known as HU-211 or
Dexanabinol);
         (d)   1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-018);
         (e)   1-butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-073); or
         (f)   1-pentyl-3 (4-methoxynaphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-081).
      (2)   Products containing some of the above substances are currently
being marketed under the following commercial names: “K-2,” “K-2 SUMMIT,” “K-
2 SEX,” “GENIE,” “DASCENTS,” “ZOHAI,” “SAGE,” “SPICE,” “KO KNOCK-OUT 2,” “SPICE
GOLD,” “K-2 4:20,, “K-2 8 BALL,” “SPICE DIAMOND,” “YUCATAN FIRE,” “SOLAR
FLARE,” “PEP SPICE,” “FIRE N’ ICE,” and “SALVIA DIVINORUM.”
      (3)   Any new products marketed under different names will be subject to
the above definition if they contain any of the chemical components set forth
above.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, wholesaler, retailer, or
any licensed or unlicensed business.
(Ord. O-2010-08, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 131.03 SALE, OFFER, GIFT, DISPLAY, OR POSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, possess, purchase, barter, give,
display, sell, or offer for sale any illegal smoking product in the city.
(Ord. O-2010-08, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 131.04 ILLEGAL INGESTION DEVICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or possess with intent to use an
ingestion device to inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the
human body an illegal smoking product in the city.
(Ord. O-2010-08, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 131.05 DEFENSES TO PROSECUTION.
   It shall be a defense to prosecution for a violation of this subchapter if
the use of the restricted smoking material is at the direction or under a
prescription issued by a licensed physician or dentist authorized to prescribe
controlled substances within the state.
(Ord. O-2010-08, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
131.01 through
131.05, as amended hereby, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction in the Municipal Court of the city shall be punished by a fine not
to exceed the sum of $2,000 for each offense, and each and every day any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. O-2010-08, passed 9-13-2010)
CHAPTER 132: HUNTING; DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS
Section
   
132.01   Purpose
   
132.02   Definitions
   
132.03   Prohibition on hunting
   
132.04   Prohibition on discharge of weapons
   
132.05   Exceptions
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote public safety by prohibiting
hunting and the discharge of weapons within the city limits of the City of
Bryson, Texas, except as expressly allowed herein.
(Ord. O-2026-01, passed 1-12-2026)
§ 132.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings assigned to them below:
   CITY LIMITS. The incorporated boundaries of the City of Bryson, Texas, as
now existing or as hereafter amended.
   DISCHARGE. Firing, shooting, releasing, or propelling a projectile from a
weapon.
   HUNTING. Pursuing, capturing, taking, or attempting to capture or take
wildlife, whether by firearm, bow, trap, or any other means.
   WEAPON. Any firearm, air gun, BB gun, pellet gun, bow and arrow, crossbow,
or any device designed to expel a projectile by force, air, gas, explosion, or
mechanical means.
(Ord. O-2026-01, passed 1-12-2026)
§ 132.03 PROHIBITION ON HUNTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt within the city limits of the
City of Bryson, Texas.
(Ord. O-2026-01, passed 1-12-2026)
§ 132.04 PROHIBITION ON DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   Except as provided in §
132.05 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any
weapon within the city limits of the City of Bryson, Texas.
(Ord. O-2026-01, passed 1-12-2026)
§ 132.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Peace officers or other law enforcement officers acting within the
scope of their official duties;
   (B)   The lawful discharge of a weapon in defense of persons or property
when justified under Texas law;
   (C)   Activities expressly required or authorized by state or federal law;
and
   (D)   Any other exception required under Texas Local Gov’t Code, § 229.001,
or other applicable state law.
(Ord. O-2026-01, passed 1-12-2026)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500, as authorized
by state law. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. O-2026-01, passed 1-12-2026)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SUBSTANDARD BUILDING CONTROL
      
152.   OIL; GAS WELLS; DRILLING
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
155.   ELECTRONIC ADVERTISING SIGNS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Standard Codes adopted
   
150.02   Building permit required; issuance of permit
§ 150.01 STANDARD CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The following codes are hereby adopted by reference as though they
were copied herein fully:
      International Building Code – 2006 Edition
      International Energy Code – 2006 Edition
      International Fire Code – 2006 Edition
      International Fuel Gas Code – 2006 Edition
      International Mechanical Code – 2006 Edition
      International Plumbing Code – 2006 Edition
      International Residential Code – 2006 Edition
      National Electrical Code – 2006 Edition
      Standard Amusement Device Code – 1985 Edition
      Standard Housing Code – 1991 Edition with 1992/1994 Revisions
      Standard Swimming Pool Code – 1991 Edition with 1993/1994 Revisions
      Standard Unsafe Building Abatement Code – 1985 Edition
   (B)   Within said codes, when reference is made to the duties of a certain
official named therein, that designated official of the City of Bryson, Jack
Co., Texas who has duties corresponding to those of the named official in said
code shall be deemed to be the responsible official insofar as enforcing the
provisions of said code are concerned.
(Ord. 139, passed 10-10-1994; Ord. O-2010-12, passed 11-21-2010; Ord. O-2010-
13, passed 11-21-2010; Ord. O-2010-14, passed 11-21-2010; Ord. O-2010-15,
passed 11-21-2010; Ord. O-2010-16, passed 11-21-2010; Ord. O-2010-17, passed
11-21-2010; Ord. O-2010-18, passed 11-21-2010; Ord. O-2010-19, passed 11-21-
2010; Ord. O-2010-20, passed 11-21-2010; Ord. O-2013-05, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 150.02 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations for
the issuance of building permits to:
      (1)   Ensure compliance with applicable building, zoning, fire,
electrical, plumbing, and mechanical codes;
      (2)   Protect public health, safety, and welfare;
      (3)   Maintain orderly development within the city; and
      (4)   Provide a standardized permitting process for construction,
alteration, repair, demolition, and relocation of structures.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following terms
shall have the meanings indicated:
      APPLICANT. The property owner or authorized agent seeking a building
permit.
      BUILDING PERMIT. A legal authorization issued by the city to commence
construction, alteration, demolition, or repair of a structure.
      CITY OFFICIAL. A city official responsible for issuing and approving
permits.
      STRUCTURE. Any building, fence, wall, deck, shed, or other man-made
improvement attached to land.
   (C)   Permit requirements. 
      (1)   Permit required. No person shall construct, alter, repair, move,
demolish, or change the occupancy of any structure without first obtaining a
building permit from the city, except as exempted.
      (2)   Exemptions. The following work is exempt from permit requirements
(subject to compliance with zoning and other ordinances):
         (a)   Minor repairs (under $500 in value) not affecting structural
integrity, electrical, plumbing, or mechanical systems;
         (b)   Prefabricated sheds under 50 square feet not used for
habitation;
         (c)   Fences under six feet in height (unless in a designated historic
district); and
         (d)   Painting, flooring, and cosmetic work not involving structural
changes.
   (D)   Application process.
      (1)   Submission. Applicants must submit:
         (a)   A completed permit application form;
         (b)   Detailed construction plans (if required by the city official);
         (c)   Site plan showing property lines, setbacks, and proposed work;
and
         (d)   Payment of applicable fees as adopted by the City Council.
      (2)   Review and approval. The city official shall:
         (a)   Review applications for compliance with codes and ordinances;
and
         (b)   Approve, deny, or request modifications within ten business
days.
   (E)   Inspections. Permitted work shall be subject to inspections at the
following stages (as applicable):
      (1)   Footing/Foundation: Before pouring concrete.
      (2)   Framing: Before covering walls.
      (3)   Electrical/Plumbing/Mechanical: Before concealment.
      (4)   Final inspection: Prior to occupancy.
   (F)   Fees. Permit fees shall be established by ordinance of the city.
Whereas the City of Bryson, having no official Building Inspector fees may
include at the applicant’s own cost, plan review, permit issuance, and
inspection and reinspection costs by a licensed inspector hired by the
applicant.
Permit type                    Permit rate
Construction                   $30
Demolition                     $30
Installation                   $30
Moving                         $30
Building - Residential
   Less than 1,500 square fe$150
   More than 1,500 square fe$300
Building - Commercial          $0.29 per square foot
 
   (G)   Violations & penalties. 
      (1)   Stop-work order. A city official may halt work conducted without a
permit or in violation of approved plans.
      (2)   Penalties. Violators may be subject to:
         (a)   Fines of up to $25 per day until compliance is achieved.
         (b)   Legal action, including injunctive relief.
   (H)   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by a decision under this section may
appeal to the City Council within ten days of the decision.
(Ord. 96, passed 2-9-1976; Ord. 145, passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 139, passed 10-10-
1994; Ord. O-2025-04, passed 5-12-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151: SUBSTANDARD BUILDING CONTROL
Section
   
151.01   Findings of fact
   
151.02   Popular name
   
151.03   Purpose
   
151.04   Definitions
   
151.05   Declaration of nuisance
   
151.06   Inspection
   
151.07   Notice of violation
   
151.08   Standards
   
151.09   Hearing
   
151.10   Order for repair or demolition
   
151.11   Notice of repair or demolition
   
151.12   Appeal
   
151.13   Demolition and repair expenses
   
151.14   Assessment of lien
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   All of the premises below are hereby found to be true and correct
legislative and factual findings of the City of Bryson and are hereby approved
and incorporated into the body of this chapter as if copied in their entirety.
   (A)   The City Council seeks to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the community by preventing death, injuries and property damage
within the City of Bryson; and
   (B)   The City Council seeks to protect property values within the city
limits; and
   (C)   The City Council finds that substandard buildings or structures pose
aesthetic harm to the city; and ;
   (D)   The City Council finds that substandard buildings or structures are
fire hazards and often attract vermin and insects; and
   (E)   Pursuant to the laws of the State of Texas, including Texas Local
Government Code § 51.001, the City Council has the authority to adopt, publish,
amend or repeal an ordinance that is for the good government, peace or order of
the City; and
   (F)   Pursuant to Tex. Local Government Code § 54.012, a municipality may
bring a civil action for, among other things, the enforcement of an ordinance
relating to dangerously damages or deteriorated structures or improvements; and
   (G)   Pursuant to Tex. Local Government Code § 214.001 et seq., the City
Council has authority to regulate substandard buildings or structures; and
   (H)   Pursuant to Tex. Local Government Code section 214.002, the City
Council has authority to order the repair, removal or demolition of a
substandard building or structure and to repair, remove, or demolish a
substandard structure and assess such costs against the property owner or owner
of the structure;
(Ord. O-2010-02, passed 4-15-2010)
§ 151.02 POPULAR NAME.
   This chapter shall be commonly referred to as the City's Substandard
Building Ordinance.
(Ord. O-2010-02, passed 4-15-2010)
§ 151.03 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted so that the City Council may promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare within the city through the regulation of
substandard and dangerous buildings or structures. By requiring the repair and/
or demolition and dangerous buildings and structures, the City Council seeks to
protect property values and prevent bodily injury, death, and property damage
within the city limits.
(Ord. O-2010-02, passed 4-15-2010)
§ 151.04 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter the following terms shall be defined as follows:
   APPRAISED VALUE. The value given the structure by the county tax assessor's
office.
   BUILDING. Any structure of any kind or any part thereof, erected for the
support, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattel or property of any
kind.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The person appointed by the city to conduct periodic
inspections of buildings and structures to insure that the same are being
maintained in a manner consistently with prescribed building codes of the city
and not in violation of this chapter.
   CITY. The City of Bryson, Texas.
   CITY COUNCIL. The governing body of the City of Bryson.
   DILIGENT EFFORT.  Best or reasonable effort to determine the identity and
address of an owner, a lienholder, or a mortgagee including a search of the
following records:
      (1)   County real property records of the county in which the building is
located;
      (2)   Appraisal district records of the appraisal district in which the
building is located;
      (3)   Records of the secretary of state;
      (4)   Assumed name records of the county in which the building is
located;
      (5)   City tax records; and
      (6)   City utility records.
   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS. Those standards found in the city's adopted
standard building, electrical, plumbing, gas, mechanical, existing building and
fire prevention codes and any other housing and structure regulations adopted
under Chapter 214, Tex. Local Government Code.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, firm, corporation, or other entity named in the
real property records of the county where the building is located as owning the
property.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner, or any part thereof.
(Ord. O-2010-02, passed 4-15-2010)
§ 151.05 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   Any building or structure requiring repair, removal or demolition, as
described and defined herein below and all buildings or structures within the
city which because of their condition are unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise
dangerous to the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the city
are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and unlawful and subject to the
provisions of this chapter regarding repair, removal or demolition.
(Ord. O-2010-02, passed 4-15-2010)
§ 151.06 INSPECTION.
   An inspection shall be made of every building located within the city which
is suspected of being in violation of this chapter. The Building Inspector, or
his or her official designee, is hereby authorized to conduct inspections of
buildings suspected of being in violation of this chapter, and take such
actions as may be required to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-2010-02, passed 4-15-2010)
§ 151.07 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever a violation of this chapter has been discovered and reported
by the Building Inspector or his or her designee, a public hearing shall be
held by the City Council to determine whether a building complies with the
standards set out in this chapter.
   (B)   A notice of the hearing shall be sent to the occupant, if any, and
record owner, lienholder or mortgagee. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be served by personal delivery or by certified mail return receipt
requested. Additionally, a copy of the notice shall be posted on the front door
of each affected structure situated on the property or as close to the front
door as practicable. It is not necessary that the notice to the occupant of the
property list an occupant by name. Service of the notice may be accomplished by
the first class U.S. mail or by personal delivery to any occupant of the
property who is above the age of 18 years.
   (C)   The notice shall contain:
      (1)   The names of all persons to whom notice is being served,
      (2)   The street address or legal description of the premises,
      (3)   The date of inspection,
      (4)   The nature of the violation,
      (5)   The date, time and location of the hearing, and
      (6)   A statement that the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee will be
required to submit at the hearing proof of the scope of any work that may be
required to comply with this chapter and the time it will take to reasonably
perform the work.
(Ord. O-2010-02, passed 4-15-2010)
§ 151.08 STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall be utilized in determining whether a building
should be ordered repaired, removed or demolished:
   (A)   The building or structure is liable to partially or fully collapse.
   (B)   The building or structure was constructed or maintained in violation
of any provision of the city's building code, or any other applicable ordinance
or law of the city, county, state, or federal government.
   (C) Any wall or other vertical structural members list, lean or buckle to
such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center of gravity falls
outside of the middle one-third of its base.
   (D)   The foundation or the vertical or horizontal supporting members are
25% or more damaged or deteriorated.
   (E)   The nonsupporting coverings of walls, ceilings, roofs, or floors are
50% or more damaged or deteriorated.
   (F)   The structure has improperly distributed loads upon the structural
members, or the structural members have insufficient strength to be reasonably
safe for the purpose used.
   (G)   The structure or any part thereof has been damaged by fire, water,
earthquake, wind, vandalism, or other cause to such an extent that it has
become dangerous to the public, health, safety and welfare.
   (H)   The structure does not have adequate light, ventilation, or sanitation
facilities as required by the city.
   (I)   The structure has inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or
other emergency or has insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other
means of ingress or egress.
   (J)   The structure, because of its condition, is unsafe, unsanitary, or
dangerous to the health, safety or general welfare of the city's citizens
including all conditions conducive to the harboring of rats or mice or other
disease-carrying animals or insects reasonably calculated to spread disease.
(Ord. O-2010-02, passed 4-15-2010)
§ 151.09 HEARING.
   (A)   The date of the hearing shall not be less than ten days after notice
is made as described in §
151.07.
   (B)   If a building is found to be in violation of this chapter, the city
shall require the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee of the building to within 30
days repair, remove or demolish the building, unless it is proven at the
hearing that the work cannot reasonably be done in 30 days.
   (C)   If the city allows more than 30 days for the building to be repaired,
removed or demolished, the city shall establish specific time schedules for the
work to be commenced and performed and shall require the owner, lienholder, or
mortgagee to secure the property in a reasonable manner from unauthorized entry
while the work is being performed, as determined by the hearing official.
   (D)   The city shall not allow the owner, lienholder or mortgagee more than
90 days to repair, remove or demolish the building or fully perform all worked
required to comply with the order unless a detailed plan and time scheduled for
the work are submitted at the hearing and it is proven at the hearing that the
work cannot reasonably be completed within 90 days because of the scope and
complexity of the work. Additionally, the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee must
submit work progress reports to demonstrate compliance with the time schedule
established.
   (E)   In any case where repairs are estimated to cost 50% or more of the
appraised value, a building shall be demolished or removed, and in all cases
where a structure cannot be repaired so that it will no longer exist in
violation of the provisions of this chapter it shall be demolished or removed.
(Ord. O-2010-02, passed 4-15-2010)
§ 151.10 ORDER FOR REPAIR OR DEMOLITION.
   (A)   After the public hearing, if a building is found to be in violation of
the standards set out in this chapter, the city may order that the building be
repaired, removed or demolished within a reasonable time, as established under
§
151.09.
   (B)   If the building is ordered to be repaired, removed or demolished, the
city shall promptly mail by certified mail, return receipt requested, or
personally deliver a copy of the order to the owner of the building and to any
lienholder or mortgagee of the building. The city shall make a diligent effort
to discover each owner, mortgagee and lienholder having an interest in the
building or property on which the building is located.
   (C)   If the ordered action is demolition of the building or structure,
demolition shall not occur until a magistrate has issued a seizure and
demolition warrant supported by a probable cause affidavit stating that:
      (1)   The building or structure constitutes a nuisance;
      (2)   The city has complied with the procedures set forth in this
chapter;
      (3)   Demolition has been ordered by the city; and
      (4)   The time for appeal of the order to district court has expired and
no appeal has been taken or, in the alternative, the order was appealed to
district court but the appeal has been finally resolved in a manner that does
not prevent the city from proceeding with demolition.
(Ord. O-2010-02, passed 4-15-2010)
§ 151.11 NOTICE OF REPAIR OR DEMOLITION.
   (A)   In addition to the order, each identified mortgagee or lienholder
shall be sent a notice containing:
      (1)   An identification of the building and property on which it is
located (this does not have to be a legal description);
      (2)   A description of the violation of the chapter; and
      (3)   A statement that the municipality may demolish the building if the
ordered action is not taken.
   (B)   If the notice is returned "refused" or "unclaimed," the validity of
the notice is not affected and the notice shall be deemed delivered.
   (C)   Within ten days after the date that the order is issued, the city
shall:
      (1)   File a copy of the order in the office of the City Secretary; and
      (2)   Publish a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the city
(and where the building is located) stating:
         (a)   The street address or legal description of the property;
         (b)   The date of the hearing;
         (c)   A brief statement indicating the results of the order; and
         (d)   Instructions as to where a complete copy of the order may be
obtained.
(Ord. O-2010-02, passed 4-15-2010)
§ 151.12 APPEAL.
   The owner, lienholder, or mortgagee shall have the right to appeal the
decision made at the hearing to a district court. A notice of appeal must be
filed with the district court within 30 calendar days from the date the order
is mailed to the owner, lienholder or mortgagee, as provided herein.
(Ord. O-2010-02, passed 4-15-2010)
§ 151.13 DEMOLITION AND REPAIR EXPENSES.
   (A)   Whenever it is discovered upon reinspection that the owner, mortgagee
or lienholder has failed to repair, remove or demolish the building or take
other ordered action within the allotted time, the city shall make a diligent
effort to discover each mortgagee and lienholder having an interest in the
building or in the property on which the building is located and shall
personally deliver or send by certified mail, return receipt requested, to each
a notice containing:
      (1)   An identification of the building and property on which it is
located (this does not have to be a legal description);
      (2)   A description of the violation of the chapter; and
      (3)   A statement that the municipality will remove or demolish the
building if the ordered action is not taken.
   (B)   Whenever it is discovered upon reinspection that the owner, mortgagee
or lienholder has failed to repair, remove or demolish the building or take
other ordered action within the allotted time, the city, or its authorized
agent, may repair, remove or demolish and remove said building or cause the
same to be done and charge the expenses incurred in doing such work or having
the same done to the owner, mortgagee or lienholder of said land or otherwise
assess the expenses against the property on which the building is located.
   (C)   If such work is done at the expense of the city, then the expense
shall be assessed against any salvage resulting from the demolition of the
building and against the lot, tract, or parcel of land, or the premises upon
which such expense was incurred.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, any repair, alteration or
improvement made to a building by the city will only be to the extent necessary
to bring the building into compliance with the minimum housing standards and
only if the building is a residential building with ten or fewer dwelling
units; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, the city may elect to obtain a judicial determination
by a decree of a court of competent jurisdiction of the existence, in fact, of
a public nuisance in cases contemplated by this chapter. Such judicial
determination may include any available remedy for the abatement of such a
nuisance.
(Ord. O-2010-02, passed 4-15-2010)
§ 151.14 ASSESSMENT OF LIEN.
   (A)   When the city incurs expenses to repair, remove or demolish a
building, the city may assess the expenses on and obtain a lien against the
property on which the building is located, unless it is a homestead as
protected by the Texas Constitution. The lien arises and attaches to the
property when the city has the lien recorded and indexed with the county clerk
of the county in which the property is located. The notice shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner, if that information can be
determined with a reasonable effort;
      (2)   A legal description of the real property on which the building was
located;
      (3)   The amount of expense incurred by the city;
      (4)   The balance due; and
      (5)    The date on which said work was done or improvements made.
   (B)   The city shall have a privileged lien on such lot, lots, or other
premises or real estate upon which said building was located, to secure the
expenditure so made, second only to other liens as provided by law. It is
further provided that for any such expenditure suit may be instituted and
foreclosure of said lien may be made in the name of the city; and the statement
of expenses so made, as aforesaid, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima
facie proof of the amount expended for such work or expense.
   (C)   The lien is extinguished if the property owner or another person
having an interest in the legal title to the property reimburses the city for
the expenses.
(Ord. O-2010-02, passed 4-15-2010)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   The city shall have the power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this chapter as may be required by governing law.
   (A)   Civil remedies.
      (1)   A property owner violating any provision of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be fined a sum not exceeding $1,000.00 for each and every day
of violation, or, if the owner shows the property is the owner's lawful
homestead, in an amount not to exceed $10.00 per day for each violation,
provided that:
         (a)   The owner was notified of the requirements of the chapter and
the owner's need to comply with the requirements; and
         (b)   After notification, the owner committed an act in violation of
the chapter or failed to take action necessary for compliance with the chapter.
      (2)   If such a civil penalty is assessed, the city secretary shall file
a certified copy of the order containing such amount and duration of the
penalty with the county district clerk's office no later than three working
days after such order.
   (B)   Other remedies.
      (1)   The remedies provided herein shall be available to the city in
addition to any penal or other remedy provided by law or equity which the city,
state, or any other person may provide to remedy the unsafe building condition.
      (2)   The city may bring a civil action in a court of competent
jurisdiction to collect the amount due plus all associated costs and fees.
(Ord. O-2010-02, passed 4-15-2010)
CHAPTER 152: OIL; GAS WELLS; DRILLING
Section
   
152.01   Permit, cash payment required to drill
   
152.02   No more than one well per city block allowed
   
152.03   Surface pipe and cement required
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 PERMIT, CASH PAYMENT REQUIRED TO DRILL.
   (A)   The City Council requires that a permit be secured from the city,
which must be signed by the Mayor and City Secretary.
   (B)   This permit requires a cash payment, in an amount as set by the City
Council, to drill within Blocks No. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. Also, a cash payment
in an amount as set by the City Council, is required to drill within 200 feet
of a city street, when the same is not on multiple acres, or adjoining as an
offset to multiple acres; and a cash payment in an amount as set by the City
Council, is required to drill on multiple acres within 200 feet of streets, in
the city, the same payment applies to one-acre tracts or less when a well on
the tract is an offset to a tract containing five or more acres; and a cash
payment in an amount as set by the City Council, is required for all other
permits within the city limits.
(Ord. 10, passed 11-2-1936) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02 NO MORE THAN ONE WELL PER CITY BLOCK ALLOWED.
   Not more than one well shall be drilled on a city block, unless the block
contains two acres or more, and or has been segregated by a railroad, street or
highway into an irregular shape or triangle.
(Res. passed 11-2-1936)
§ 152.03 SURFACE PIPE AND CEMENT REQUIRED.
   All producers exploring for oil and /or gas within the limits of the city
shall set 300 feet of surface pipe and circulate cement to the top of the
ground.
(Res. passed 3-1-1937)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, company or corporation carrying on drilling operations
and/or having a well drilled who shall fail to comply with any provision of §
152.01 shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99. Each day of the violation shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 10, passed 11-2-1936)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
153.01   Authorization, findings, purpose and methods
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   General provisions
   
153.04   Administration
   
153.05   Flood hazard reduction
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND METHODS.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has in the Tex.
Water Code § 16.315 delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to
adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City
Council does ordain as follows.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
flood-proofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood- prone areas in a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      (7)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
   (D)   Methods of reducing flood losses. In order to accomplish its purpose,
this chapter uses the following methods:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve those uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 134, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Flood Plain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
      (1)   The land in the floodplain within a community subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year.
      (2)   The area may be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary
Map (FHBM).
      (3)   After detailed rate-making has been completed in preparation for
publication of the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AE, AH, AO,
A1-99, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building: built, in the case of a building
in Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor, or in the case of a building in Zones V1-30, VE or V, to have
the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member of the elevated floor
elevated above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers),
or shear walls parallel to the floor of the water; and adequately anchored so
as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of up
to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO,
AH, B, C, X, D, ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a building elevated by means of
fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate
the unimpeded movement of flood waters. In the case of Zones V1-30, VE or V,
ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a building otherwise meeting the definition of
ELEVATED BUILDING, even though the lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway
walls if the breakaway walls meet the standards of 44 CFR 60.3(e)(5) of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) related erosion areas having special hazards
have been designated as Zone A, M and/or E.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of flooding).
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided that the
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of 44 CFR 60.3 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes the term MANUFACTURED HOME also includes park trailers,
travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
180 consecutive days. For insurance purposes the term MANUFACTURED HOME does
not include park trailers, travel trailers and other similar vehicles.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348, being 16
USC 3501 et seq.)), includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the
permit date. The actual START DATE means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactures home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either: before the improvement or repair is started; or if the
structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
For the purpose of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural
part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include
either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, safety, sanitary or safety code specifications which are
solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A
VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise
prohibited by this chapter. (For full requirements see 44 CFR 60.6 of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10),
(d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time
as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 134, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 153.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazard with the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard. The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on
its Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM), Community No. 480877, dated July 11,
1975, and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to
be a part of this chapter.
   (C)   Establishment of development permit. A development permit shall be
requires to ensure conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered
or have its use charges without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and other conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (G)   Warning and disclaimer of liability.
      (1)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and
engineering considerations.
      (2)   On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
      (3)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special
flood hazards or uses permitted within those areas will be free from flooding
or flood damages.
      (4)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the
community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. 134, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 153.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator. The Mayor is hereby
appointed the Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter and other appropriate sections of 44 C.F.R.
(National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain
management.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. Duties
and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building
site will be reasonable safe from flooding;
      (3)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
      (4)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334) from which prior approval is
required;
      (5)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation;
      (6)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency, which is State Water Commission, prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of the notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (7)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained; and
      (8)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
153.03(B) above, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
§
153.05 below.
   (C)   Permit procedures.
      (1)   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, and the location of the foregoing in relation to areas of
special flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is required:
         (a)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure shall be flood-proofed;
         (c)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential flood-proofed structure shall meet the flood-
proofing criteria of §
153.05(B)(2) below;
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (e)   Maintain a record of all the information in accordance with
division (B)(1) above.
      (2)   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
         (a)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (b)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effects of the damage on the individual owner;
         (c)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (d)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (e)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (f)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems;
         (g)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
         (h)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (i)   The availability of alternate locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
         (j)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
for that area.
   (D)   Variance procedures.
      (1)   The Appeal Board as established by the community shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      (3)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal that decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
      (4)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
      (5)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
      (6)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in division (C)(2) above have been
fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the
technical jurisdiction required for issuing the variance increases.
      (7)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach the conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter (§
153.01(C) above).
      (8)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (9)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
         (a)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (b)   Variances shall only be issued upon: showing a good and
sufficient cause; a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional
threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause
fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws
or ordinances.
         (c)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (10)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
         (a)   The criteria outlined in divisions (D)(1) through (9) above are
met; and
         (b)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 134, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 153.05 FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all areas of special flood hazards the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      (1)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      (4)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all areas of special flood hazards where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in §
153.03(B) or §
153.04(B)(8) above, or division (C)(4) below, the following provisions are
required:
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division, as proposed
in §
153.04(C)(1)(a) above, is satisfied; and
      (2)   Nonresidential construction.
         (a)   New construction and substantial improvements of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated to or above the base flood level or, together
with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the
base flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy.
         (b)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop
and/or review structural design, specifications and plans for the construction,
and shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance
with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this division.
         (c)   A record of the certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the structures are flood-
proofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (3)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A,
shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage.
            1.   For the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes must
be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
            2.   Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
            3.   This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local
anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
         (b)   All manufactured homes shall be in compliance with division (B)
(1) above.
   (C)   Standards for subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals including manufactures home parks and
subdivisions shall be consistent with §
153.01(B), (C) and (D) above.
      (2)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including
manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development permit
requirements of §
153.03(C), §
153.04(C) and the provisions of this section.
      (3)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development including manufactures home parks and
subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is lesser,
if not otherwise provided pursuant to §
153.03(B) above or §
153.04(B)(8) above.
      (4)   All subdivision proposals including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have adequate drainage to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      (5)   All subdivision proposals including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
(Ord. 134, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this chapter an act is prohibited or is made or declared
to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in this chapter the
doing of an act is requires or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, the violation of any such provision shall be punished by a fine of
not exceeding $200; provided, however, that no penalty shall be greater or less
than the penalty provided for the same or similar offense under the laws of the
state.
   (B)   Each day any violation of this chapter shall continue shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Ord. 134, passed 4-6-1987)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Authority
   
154.02   Purpose
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Special provisions
   
154.05   Variance
   
154.06   Preliminary conference
   
154.07   Preliminary plat
   
154.08   Final plat
   
154.09   Standards and specifications
   
154.10   Responsibility for payment of installation costs
   
154.11   Parks and other public uses
   
154.12   Authority of the Superintendent
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority of the Constitution and laws of
the state, including particularly Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, Ch. 212.
(Ord. 98, passed 7-12-1976)
§ 154.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the orderly, safe and
healthful development of the area within the city and within the area
surrounding the city and to promote the health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the community.
(Ord. 98, passed 7-12-1976)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Definitions not expressly prescribed herein are to be determined in accordance
with customary usage in municipal planning and engineering practices.
   CITY ENGINEER. The city's on-staff engineer or consulting engineer.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of Bryson, Texas.
   EASEMENT. A right granted for the purpose of limited public or semi-public
use across, under or over private land.
   FILING. The state mandated 30-day period for action on any document
submitted in accordance with this subchapter under Tex. Loc. Gov't Code, §
212.009 shall begin when:
      (1)   The preliminary plat is deemed filed when all fees, documents and
drawings required hereunder are filed with the City Secretary;
      (2)   The final plat is deemed filed when the approved preliminary plat
along with any stipulations and/or conditions required by the Commission have
been filed with the City Secretary as a final plat and when all necessary fees,
documents, certifications and drawings required hereunder are in the possession
of the City Secretary;
      (3)   If at any time the City Secretary deems that required information
has not been provided for whatever reason, the filing shall be deemed canceled
and begin again upon the filing of the required information; and
      (4)   A rejected document, during the appeal, is deemed unfiled and time
limits are tolled (the appeal will be heard at the next meeting of the
Commission or Council or ten days, which ever is shortest).
   FINAL PLAT. A complete and exact subdivision plan submitted to the Council
for final approval and which, if approved, shall be submitted to the County
Clerk of Jack County, Texas, for recording.
   LOT. Any land occupied by a building and its accessory buildings, including
such open space as is required by ordinances of the city; and having its
principle frontage upon a public street or officially- approved place.
   LOT OF RECORD. Any lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Clerk of Jack County.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The person designated by the Mayor to administer the
provisions of this subchapter.
   STANDARD. The official city maps, master plan, ordinances and other
specifications of the city.
   STREET.  A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place or
however otherwise designated.
      (1)   ARTERIAL STREETS AND HIGHWAYS. Those which are used primarily for
fast or heavy traffic or which are designated in the Master Plan as a primary
street, expressway or freeway.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREETS. Those which carry traffic from minor streets to
a major system of arterial streets and highways, including the principle
entrance streets of a residential development and streets for circulation
within the development and which are designated in the Master Plan as secondary
streets.
      (3)   CUL-DE-SAC. A short, minor street having but one vehicular access
to another street and terminated by a vehicular turn-around.
      (4)   DEAD-END STREET. A street with only one opening, other than a cul-
de-sac.
      (5)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS. Minor streets which are parallel and
adjacent to arterial streets and highways, and which provide access to abutting
property and protection from through traffic.
      (6)   MINOR STREETS. Those which are used primarily for access to
abutting property.
   SUBDIVISION AND RELATED TERMS. The division of a parcel of land into three
or more lots or tracts for the purpose of transfer of ownership; the dedication
of streets or easements; or for use for building development, provided that a
division of land for agricultural purposes into lots or tracts of five acres or
more, and not involving a new street or alley, shall not be deemed to be a
subdivision. The term includes RESUBDIVISION and, when appropriate to the
context, shall relate either to the process of subdividing or to the land
subdivided. The terms, SUBDIVIDER and DEVELOPER are synonymous and are used
interchangeably and shall include any person, partnership, firm, association,
corporation and/or any officer, agent, employee, servant and trustee thereof
who does, or participates in the doing of, any act towards the subdivision of
land within the intent, scope and purview of this subchapter.
§ 154.04 SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued by the city for installation of septic tanks
upon any lot in a subdivision for which a final plat has not been approved and
filed for record, or upon any lot in a subdivision in which the standards
contained herein or referred to herein have not been complied with in full.
   (B)   No building, repair, plumbing or electrical permit shall be issued by
the city for any structure on a lot in a subdivision for which a final plat has
not been approved and filed for record, nor any structure on a lot within a
subdivision in which the standards contained herein have not been complied with
in full.
   (C)   The city shall not repair, maintain, install or provide any streets or
public utility services in any subdivision for which a final plat has not been
approved and filed for record, nor in which the standards contained herein have
not been complied with in full.
   (D)   The city shall not sell or supply any water or sewage service within a
subdivision for which a final plat has not been approved and filed for record,
nor in which the standards contained herein have not been complied with in
full.
   (E)   In behalf of the city, the City Attorney shall, when directed by the
City Council, institute appropriate action in a court of competent jurisdiction
to enforce the provisions of this chapter or the standards contained or
referred to herein with respect to any violation thereof which occurs within
the city, within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city, or within any
area subject to all or part of the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prohibit the
issuance of permits for any lots upon which a residence building exists and was
in existence prior to passage of this chapter, nor to prohibit the repair,
maintenance or installation of any street or public utility services for, to or
abutting any lot, the last recorded conveyance of which prior to passage of
this chapter was by metes and bounds, and/or any subdivision, or lot therein,
recorded or unrecorded, which subdivision was in existence prior to the passage
of this chapter.
(Ord. 98, passed 7-12-1976) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.05 VARIANCE.
   (A)   The City Council may authorize a variance from these regulations when,
in its opinion, undue hardship will result from requiring strict compliance.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the City Council finds:
      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the land
involved such that the strict compliance to this chapter would deprive the
applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the applicant;
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety or welfare, or injurious to other property in the area; and
      (4)   The granting of the variance will not have the effect of preventing
the orderly subdivision of other land in the area in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   These findings of the City Council, together with the specific facts
upon which the findings are based, shall be incorporated into the official
minutes of the Council meetings at which the variance is granted.
   (D)   Pecuniary hardship to the subdivider, standing alone, shall not be
deemed to constitute undue hardship.
(Ord. 98, passed 7-12-1976)
§ 154.06 PRELIMINARY CONFERENCE.
   Prior to the official filing of a preliminary plat, the subdivider should
consult with and present a proposed plan of subdivision to the City
Superintendent for comments and advice on the procedures, specifications and
standards required by the city for the subdivision of land.
(Ord. 98, passed 7-12-1976)
§ 154.07 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The subdivider shall cause to be prepared a preliminary plat by a
surveyor or engineer in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The subdivider shall file one copy of the plat together with the
original with the City Council at least 30 days prior to the date at which
formal application for the preliminary plat approval is made to the City
Council.
   (C)   The plat shall be accompanied by a filing fee in amounts as set by the
City Council from time to time.
      (1)   The fee shall be an amount set by City Council per acre for
multiple dwelling areas, commercial or industrial districts, and other areas
not subdivided into lots.
      (2)   No action by the City Council shall be valid until the filing fee
has been paid.
      (3)   This fee shall not be refunded.
   (D)   Formal application for preliminary plat approval shall be made by the
subdivider in writing to the City Council at an official meeting.
   (E)   The plat shall be drawn on a scale of one inch equals 100 feet.
   (F)   The plat shall be drawn to a scale of 50 feet to one inch. The plat
shall show the following:
      (1)   Names and addresses of the subdivider, record owner, engineer and/
or surveyor;
      (2)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
      (3)   Description, by metes and bounds, of the subdivision;
      (4)   Subdivision boundary lines, indicated by heavy lines and the
computed acreage of the subdivision;
      (5)   The exact location, dimensions, description and name of all
proposed streets, alleys, drainage structures, parks, other public areas,
reservations, easements or other rights-of-way, blocks, lots and other sites
within the subdivision;
      (6)   Date of preparation, scale of plat and north arrow;
      (7)   A number or letter to identify each lot or site and each block; and
      (8)   Vicinity sketch map at not more than 200 feet to an inch which
shall show existing subdivisions, streets, easements, rights-of-way, parks and
public facilities in the vicinity, the general drainage plan and ultimate
destination of water, and possible storm sewer, water, gas, electric and
sanitary sewer connections by arrows.
   (G)   (1)   The City Superintendent shall check the preliminary plat as to
its conformity with the master plan, major street plan, land use plan, zoning
districts and the standards and specifications set forth herein or referred to
herein.
      (2)   Pertinent copies of the preliminary plat data shall be submitted to
the City Superintendent and he or she shall check the same for conformity with
the standards and specifications contained or referred to herein.
      (3)   The City Superintendent shall return the preliminary plat data to
the City Council with his or her suggestions as to modifications, additions or
alterations of the plat data.
      (4)   Within 30 days after the preliminary plat is formally filed, the
Council shall conditionally approve or disapprove the plat or conditionally
approve it with modifications.
      (5)   If no development has occurred which would affect the proposed plat
after 90 days of effective approval, the Council may, upon the application of
the subdivider, extend the approval 30 days.
(Ord. 98, passed 7-12-1976)
§ 154.08 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat and accompanying data shall conform to the preliminary
plat as conditionally approved by the Council, incorporating any and all
changes, modifications, alterations, corrections and conditions imposed by the
Council.
   (B)   The final plat shall be submitted in such a manner as is required by
the Council and shall contain all of the features required for preliminary
plats in §
154.07 above, and it shall be accompanied by site improvement data and detailed
cost estimates.
   (C)   The final plat shall also include the following:
      (1)   Owners acknowledgment;
      (2)   Certification by the City Superintendent; and
      (3)   Approval of the City Council:
(Ord. 98, passed 7-12-1976)
§ 154.09 STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The subdivision shall conform to the comprehensive plan of the
city, and parts thereof.
      (2)   If a tract is subdivided into parcels larger than ordinary building
lots, the parcels shall be arranged to allow the opening of future streets.
      (3)   There shall be no reserve strips controlling access to land
dedicated or intended to be dedicated to public use.
   (B)   Adequate streets shall be provided by the subdivider and the
arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of each shall conform
to the comprehensive plan of the city and shall be considered in their relation
to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions, to public safety
and convenience, and in their appropriate relationship to the proposed uses of
the land to be served by the streets. The street layout shall be devised for
the most advantageous development of the entire neighborhood.
   (C)   Each block that does not contain an alley shall have a utility
easement at the rear of all lots reserved for the use of all public utility
lines, conduits and equipment. These utility easements shall be 20 feet in
width, taking feet from each lot where the rear of two lots abut each other,
and shall be continuous for the entire block.
   (D)   (1)   All subdivisions shall be provided with water supply and water
distribution systems approved by the City Superintendent.
      (2)   Standard fire hydrants shall be installed as part of the water
distribution system per specifications of the Fire Chief of the city and of the
State Board of Insurance.
   (E)   (1)   All subdivisions shall be provided with an approved sewage
system.
      (2)   Connection with the sanitary sewer system shall be requires except
where the City Superintendent determined that the connection will require
unreasonable expenditure when compares with other methods of sewage disposal.
   (F)   Block lengths shall not exceed 400 feet, nor be less than 200 feet.
(Ord. 98, passed 7-12-1976)
§ 154.10 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF INSTALLATION COSTS.
   (A)   The city shall be responsible for 100 feet or to the property lines of
each subdivision on water and/or sewer extensions. Where special provisions
(lift pumps and the like) are required (for sewage disposal) the subdivider
shall be responsible for the expense.
   (B)   Street construction by the city shall consist of maintenance. Paving,
curbing and storm sewers shall be the expense of the subdivider. Street
appurtenances (signs, lights and the like) must be approved by the City
Council.
   (C)   The city shall provide an adjustment of 50% on water and sewer mains
which exceed six inches in diameter on costs above the cost of six-inch lines.
   (D)   All improvements (water mains, sewer mains, utility lines, streets,
curbs and storm sewers) shall be donated to the city after approval and
inspection by the City Inspector.
   (E)   The city shall assist the subdivider with technical assistance
whenever feasible or capable.
(Ord. 98, passed 7-12-1976)
§ 154.11 PARKS AND OTHER PUBLIC USES.
   Sites for parks and other public uses in a subdivision shall be dedicated to
the city by the subdivider.
(Ord. 98, passed 7-12-1976)
§ 154.12 AUTHORITY OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The City Superintendent is hereby authorized and directed to
promulgate rules, regulations, standards and specifications for the
construction, installation, design, location and arrangement of streets, curbs,
street lights, street signs, alleys, utility layouts, utility easements, gates
for utility easements, sidewalks, water supply and water distribution systems,
fire hydrants, sewage disposal systems, septic tanks, water wells, monuments,
criteria for drainage easement requirements, drainage facilities and crosswalk
ways.
   (B)   He or she shall file same with the City Secretary at least ten days
before they become effective. He or she may amend the same from time to time,
provided that an amendment must be filed with the City Secretary at least ten
days before it becomes effective.
   (C)   No such rules, regulations, standards and specifications shall
conflict with this or any other ordinance of the city. All the improvements
shall be constructed, installed, designed, located and arranged by the
subdivider in accordance with those rules, regulations, standards and
specifications.
(Ord. 98, passed 7-12-1976)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter within the corporate
limits of the city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction,
shall be fined an amount not exceeding $200. Each day that the violation
continues shall be a separate offense. Prosecution or conviction under this
provision shall never be a bar to any other remedy or relief for violations of
this chapter.
(Ord. 98, passed 7-12-1976)
CHAPTER 155: ELECTRONIC ADVERTISING SIGNS
Section
   
155.01   Definitions
   
155.02   City approval/permit required; sign restrictions
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   CHANGEABLE ELECTRONIC VARIABLE MESSAGE SIGN (CEVMS).  A sign which permits
light to be turned on or off intermittently or which is operated in a way
whereby light is turned on or off intermittently, including any illuminated
sign on which such illumination is not kept stationary or constant in intensity
and color at all times when such sign is in use, including an LED (light
emitting diode) or digital sign, and which varies in intensity or color. A
CEVMS sign does not include a sign located within the right-of-way that
functions as a traffic control device and that is described and identified in
the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) approved by the Federal
Highway Administrator as the National Standard.
   OFF-PREMISE SIGN.  A sign displaying advertising copy that pertains to a
business, person, organization, activity, event, place, service, or product not
principally located or primarily manufactured or sold on the premises on which
the sign is located.
   ON-PREMISE SIGN. Any sign identifying or advertising the business, person,
activity, goods, products or services sold or offered for sale on the premises
where the sign is installed and maintained when such premises is used for
business purposes.
   SIGN. An outdoor structure, sign, display, light device, figure, painting,
drawing, message, plaque, poster, billboard, or other thing that is designed,
intended, or used to advertise or inform.
   SIGN CODE APPLICATION AREA. The corporate limits of the city and the area of
its extraterritorial jurisdiction as defined by Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code § 42.021.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 155.02 CITY APPROVAL/PERMIT REQUIRED; SIGN RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   City approval/permit required.
   (B)   CEVMS sign restrictions.
      (1)   Sign size. All CEVMS signs must comply with Texas Department of
Transportation guidelines and will be limited to a size no larger than five by
eight feet (5'x8').
      (2)   Sign Height. When sign is erected, the bottom of the sign shall be
no lower than ten feet from the ground, nor higher than 15 feet.
      (3)   Off-Premises Signs.  Only Local Businesses will be considered to
make permit to erect, install or maintain an off-premises sign within the Sign
Code Application Area. By "local business," the meaning shall be a valid
business located within Jack County or an immediately adjoining county of Jack
County.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined any sum not
to exceed $1,000 as provided. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-9-2008)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   [Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Texas Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO TEXAS STATUTES
 
Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code Reference Code Section
1.04                                   92.01
Ch. 1.06                               38.02
                                       
 
 
Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure Code Section
Art. 102.017                    38.05
Art. 102.0172                   38.06
                                
 
 
Tex. Family Code Reference Code Section
Ch. 31                     130.04
51.08                      130.99
                           
 
 
Tex. Gov’t Code ReferencCode Section
29.003                    38.02
29.004 - 29.007           38.25
29.010(c)                 38.41
418                       34.01,
                          34.02
551                       31.03
                          
 
 
Tex. Health & Safety Code Reference Code Section
342.007                             70.052,
                                    91.01
365.011                             92.01
Ch. 826                             91.03
826.021                             Ch. 91
                                    
 
Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code ReferencCode Section
Tex. Loc. Gov’t. Code ReferencCode Section
Title 2, Ch. 6                  30.02
22.073                          33.01
22.075                          33.01
42.021                          155.01
51.001                          151.01
53                              10.01
54.001                          10.99
54.012                          151.01
102.001                         32.02
102.002                         32.03
102.005                         32.06
102.005(C)                      32.07
102.006 - 102.008               32.08
103.001 - 103.003               32.09
103.001(a)                      10.22
Ch. 212                         154.01
212.009                         154.03
Ch. 214                         151.04
214.001                         151.01
214.002                         151.01
229.001                         132.05
271.021(2)                      90.55
370.002                         130.04
601.001                         71.02
                                
 
 
Tex. Occupations Code Reference Code Section
Ch. 2303                        90.31
2303.002                        90.31
                                
 
 
Tex. Parks and Wildlife Code Reference Code Section
Ch. 31                                 90.31 
                                       
 
 
Tex. Penal Code Reference Code Section
1.08                      Ch. 130
                          
 
Tex. Transp. Code Reference Code Section
Tex. Transp. Code Reference Code Section
22.074                      38.02
502.001                     90.31
542.201 et seq.             70.002
542.202                     70.093,
                            71.02
544.002                     70.014
544.004                     70.014
544.005                     70.014
545.303                     71.03,
                            71.04
545.356                     70.071
546.002                     70.041
550.067                     70.020,
                            70.023
551.001 et seq.             70.102
Ch. 683, Sub. E             90.30,
                            90.33
683.078                     90.35
                            
 
 
Tex. Water Code Reference Code Section
16.315                    153.01
                          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
10        11-2-1936   152.01,
                      152.99
Res.      11-2-1936   152.02
Res.      3-1-1937    152.03
13        5-28-1937   90.02,
                      90.99
15        8-2-1937    91.01,
                      91.99
20        2-6-1939    110.02
27        5-6-1946    31.02
38        11-9-1953   Ch. 73, Sch. I
44        5-14-1956   Ch. 73, Sch. I
56        8-12-1963   Ch. 73, Sch. I
63        6-14-1965   Ch. 73, Sch. I
72        10-26-1971  Ch. 74, Sch. I
74        4-3-1972    Ch. 73, Sch. I
                      51.35 -
80        10-9-1972   51.41,
                      51.99
88        3-11-1974   110.03
65        3-10-1975   31.01
96        2-9-1976    150.02
                      154.01 -
98        7-12-1976   154.12,
                      154.99
104       8-14-1978   93.01,
                      93.99
119       2-14-1983   Ch. 73, Sch. I
121       4-4-1983    51.60
122       4-4-1983    110.01
127       7-8-1985    50.27
132       3-9-1987    30.01
                      153.01 -
134       4-6-1987    153.05,
                      153.99
                      94.01 -
135       5-11-1987   94.12,
                      94.99
139       10-10-1994  150.01
140       5-4-1991    51.60
145       5-10-1993   150.02
149       3-11-1996   Ch. 73, Sch. I
                      92.01,
151       8-11-1997   92.01,
                      92.99
153       9-8-1997    36.01 -
                      36.11
154       9-8-1997    91.02,
                      91.99
159       8-11-2003   34.01,
                      34.99
-         8-8-2005    34.02
                      155.01,
172       6-9-2008    155.02,
                      155.99
173       9-8-2008    90.01,
                      90.99
176       12-8-2008   33.01
181       5-11-2009   51.62
182       3-23-2009   92.15 -
                      92.18
184       4-13-2009   51.61
186       5-11-2009   31.03
188       6-8-2009    50.27
                      50.01 -
                      50.05,
                      50.20 -
                      50.27,
                      50.40 -
                      50.45,
                      50.60 -
O-2010-01 2-8-2010    50.63,
                      50.99,
                      51.01 -
                      51.04,
                      51.20,
                      51.21,
                      52.01 -
                      52.08
                      151.01 -
O-2010-02 4-15-2010   151.14,
                      151.99
O-2010-03 4-15-2010   130.04,
                      130.99
O-2010-04 7-12-2010   90.10 -
                      90.14
O-2010-05 7-12-2010   90.30 -
                      90.38
                      90.51 -
O-2010-06 10-11-2010  90.56,
                      90.99
                      131.01 -
O-2010-08 9-13-2010   131.05,
                      131.99
O-2010-09 10-11-2010  38.05
O-2010-10 10-11-2010  38.06
O-2010-11 10-11-2010  Adopting Ordinance
O-2010-12 11-21-2010  150.01
O-2010-13 11-21-2010  150.01
O-2010-14 11-21-2010  150.01
O-2010-15 11-21-2010  150.01
O-2010-16 11-21-2010  150.01
O-2010-17 11-21-2010  150.01
O-2010-18 11-21-2010  150.01
O-2010-19 11-21-2010  150.01
O-2010-20 11-21-2010  150.01
O-2010-21 12-13-2010  91.03
O-2011-30 10-10-2011  34.02
O-2013-05 9-12-2013   150.01
O-2014-01 1-13-2014   50.23
O-2014-06 9-8-2014    Ch. 73, Sch. I
O-2024-01 9-9-2024    70.003
O-2024-07 10-13-2025  50.23
O-2025-01 4-16-2025   90.03
O-2025-03 3-10-2025   50.25
O-2025-04 5-12-2025   150.02
O-2025-08 10-13-2025  50.24
                      132.01 -
O-2026-01 1-12-2026   132.05,
                      132.99
O-2026-02 2-9-2026    70.072
O-2026-03 2-9-2026    70.073
O-2026-04 2-9-2026    70.074
                     
 
