VILLAGE OF ARNOLD, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains state legislation through October 1, 2025
 
 
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 (800) 445-5588
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the Village of Arnold
Code of Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   The headings and captions that are used in this code, other than the title,
chapter and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall
not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual, sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES, VILLAGE BOARD or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body
of the village.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This village code as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Custer County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(17))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Arnold,
Nebraska.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
Village Board or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following a specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, then the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedications of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided. When any ordinance repealing
a former ordinance, clause or provision is itself repealed, the repeal shall
not be construed to revive the former ordinance, clause or provision unless it
is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the Village Board.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or person’s agent or servant who violates any of the
provisions of this code, unless otherwise specifically provided, shall be
deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be fined in any sum not
exceeding $500. Any person or person’s agent or servant who aids, abets,
procures, encourages, requests, advises or incites another to commit any act
which is an offense under this code or under any other ordinance of the
municipality may be prosecuted and punished as though he or she were the
principal offender.
   (B)   The penalty for non-moving traffic violations and other offenses, as
defined in this code, will be $50 if paid within ten days and $100 for each
subsequent offense
(Ord. 340, passed 9-11-2000; Ord. 341, passed 11-13-2000; Ord. 489, passed 4-
14-2025)
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk and shall bear the following inscription, “Village of
Arnold, Corporate Seal, Arnold, Nebraska.” The Municipal Clerk shall affix an
impression of said official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances
and all other official papers issued by order of the governing body and
countersigned by the Municipal Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-502
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
      
31.   APPOINTED VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
Section
Board of Trustees
   
30.01   Election; terms; qualifications
   
30.02   General powers
   
30.03   Chairperson; powers and duties; absence
   
30.04   Standing committees
   
30.05   Vacancy; general provisions
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
30.20   Grant of power
   
30.21   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
30.22   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.23   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.24   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.25   Publication or posting
   
30.26   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.27   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.28   Amendments and revisions
**** BOARD OF TRUSTEES ****
§ 30.01 ELECTION; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The corporate powers and duties of the village shall be vested in a
Board of Trustees, which shall consist of three or five members. At the first
statewide general election held after the incorporation of the village with
five members, two Trustees shall be elected to serve two years and three
Trustees shall be elected to serve four years. At the first statewide general
election held after the incorporation of a village with three members, two
Trustees shall be elected to serve four years and one Trustee shall be elected
to serve two years. At the first statewide general election held after changing
the number of Trustees from five to three, one Trustee shall be elected to
serve two years and two Trustees shall be elected to serve four years. The two
Trustees receiving the highest and second highest number of votes or tied for
the highest number of votes shall serve the four-year terms, and the Trustee
receiving the next highest number of votes shall serve the two-year term.
Thereafter, the Board members shall be elected as provided in the Election Act,
Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. The terms shall begin on the first regular meeting of
the Board in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 17-202)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Trustees shall be elected at the statewide
general election as provided in division (A) above and each four years
thereafter. Except as provided in that division, the term of each Board member
shall be four years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-532)
   (C)   Any person may be a Trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village and is a registered voter.
(Neb. RS 17-203)
   (D)   Unless the village provides otherwise, members of the Board of
Trustees shall be elected from the village at large on a nonpartisan ballot.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall determine whether the person meets all
requirements before swearing in a Trustee.
(Neb. RS 32-602)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect Trustees at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Ability to provide for a partisan ballot, see Neb. RS 32-557
   Holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-209.02 and 32-604
§ 30.02 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances:
      (1)   To prevent and remove nuisances within the village or within its
one-mile zoning jurisdiction;
      (2)   To restrain and prohibit gambling;
      (3)   To provide for licensing and regulating theatrical and other
amusements within the village;
      (4)   To prevent the introduction and spread of contagious diseases;
      (5)   To establish and regulate markets;
      (6)   To erect and repair bridges;
      (7)   To erect, repair and regulate wharves;
      (8)   To regulate the landing of watercraft;
      (9)   To provide for the inspection of building materials to be used or
offered for sale in the village;
      (10)   To govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the
streets and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining,
and all excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village;
      (11)   To maintain the peace, good government and welfare of the village
and its trade and commerce; and
      (12)   To enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon inhabitants
or other persons for violation of such ordinances, not exceeding $500 for any
one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-207)
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress and prevent nuisances, and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance, and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise this power
and authority within its corporate limits and extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction.
   (C)   The village may enter into an interlocal agreement pursuant to the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, Neb. RS 13-801 et seq., with a county in which the
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village is located to provide for
joint and cooperative action to abate, remove or prevent nuisances within such
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction. The governing body of such village and
the county board of such county shall first approve such interlocal agreement
by ordinance or resolution.
(Neb. RS 18-1720)
§ 30.03 CHAIRPERSON; POWERS AND DUTIES; ABSENCE.
   (A)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Trustees
and perform all duties of his or her office in accordance with the laws of the
state and the ordinances of the village.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees shall cause the ordinances of
the Board to be printed and published for the information of the inhabitants
and cause such ordinances to be carried into effect. In the absence of the
Chairperson from any meeting of the Board, the Board shall have power to
appoint a Chairperson pro tempore, who shall exercise and have the powers and
perform the same duties as the regular Chairperson.
(Neb. RS 17-210)
   (C)   The Chairperson and the Chairperson pro tempore shall have the same
powers and privileges as other members of the Board of Trustees.
§ 30.04 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   At the organizational meeting of the Village Board, the Village Chairperson
shall appoint members of such standing committees as the Village Board may by
ordinance or resolution create. The membership of such standing committees may
be changed at any time by the Village Chairperson. The Village Chairperson
shall be a member ex officio of each standing committee. The members of the
standing committees shall serve a term of office of one year, unless
reappointed.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
§ 30.05 VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) below,
vacancies in village elected offices shall be filled by the Board of Trustees
for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy
resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to
the Board at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the
minutes of that meeting. The Board shall at once give public notice of the
vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within
the village or by posting in three public places in the village the office
vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board shall call a special meeting of the
Board or place the issue of filling the vacancy on the agenda at the next
regular meeting, at which time the Chairperson shall submit the name of a
qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired
term. The regular or special meeting shall occur upon the death of the
incumbent, or within four weeks after the meeting at which such notice of
vacancy has been presented. The Board shall vote upon the nominee, and if a
majority votes in favor of the nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled.
If the nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall
be rejected and the Chairperson shall, at the next regular or special meeting,
submit the name of another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If
the subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the
Chairperson shall continue at that meeting to submit the names of qualified
registered voters in nomination, and the Board shall continue to vote upon the
nominations at such meeting until the vacancy is filled. All Trustees present
shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Board who has
been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
   (C)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village elected office as provided in division (B) above, call a
special election to fill that vacancy.
   (D)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the members
of the Board of Trustees, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
village election to fill those vacancies. Candidates for such special election
shall file a candidate filing form pursuant to Neb. RS 32-606.01.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of official subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
**** ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS ****
§ 30.20 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers, the village shall have the power to make
all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and resolutions, not inconsistent
with the laws of the state, as may be expedient for maintaining the peace, good
government and welfare of the village and its trade and commerce and to enforce
all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties for the breach thereof, not
exceeding $500 for any one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 30.21 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   (A)   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures,
resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in
§
30.22 for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution or
motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   A majority vote shall be required to pass any resolution or motion.
The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§ 30.22 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, ordinances
shall be introduced by members of the Board of Trustees in one of the following
ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, read
aloud the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the Village
Clerk for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may present the
proposed ordinance to the Clerk, who, in the presence and hearing of a majority
of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, shall read aloud the substance
of the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 30.23 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   The style of all village ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of __________, Nebraska: ....”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in
the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 30.24 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation
or payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence
of a majority of all elected members of the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title
on three different days unless three-fourths of the Board of Trustees vote to
suspend this requirement. Such requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory, or the redrawing of boundaries for
village Board of Trustees election districts or wards, or as otherwise provided
by law. In case this requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read by
title and then moved for final passage. Three-fourths of the Board of Trustees
may require a reading of any such ordinance in full before enactment under
either procedure set out in this section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   (1)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and
every resolution or order to enter into a contract by the Board of Trustees,
the yeas and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw,
ordinance or any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the
whole number of members elected to the Board of Trustees shall be required. All
appointments of the officers by the Board of Trustees shall be made viva voce,
and the concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the names of
those, and for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment shall
be recorded.
      (2)   The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be
satisfied by a village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows
the yeas and nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by
the public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments to boundaries of election districts, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 30.25 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village or,
if no paper is published in the village, by posting a written or printed copy
in each of three public places in the village; or
   (B)   In book, pamphlet or electronic form.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
   Chairperson of Board of Trustees; duties, see Neb. RS 17-210
§ 30.26 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the village from the
Village Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and
in what paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the
ordinance was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 30.27 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.25 and division (B) below, an ordinance for the government of the village
which has been adopted by the Board of Trustees without submission to the
voters of the village shall not go into effect until 15 days after the passage
of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Chairperson and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the village. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the Board of Trustees, and be entered of
record on the Village Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 30.28 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the village and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the village, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 31: APPOINTED VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
31.02   Merger of offices
   
31.03   Village Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.04   Village Clerk
   
31.05   Village Treasurer
   
31.06   Village Attorney
   
31.07   Village Engineer; Special Engineer
   
31.08   Village Superintendent
   
31.09   Civil Defense Director
   
31.10   Code enforcement officer
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Village Clerk, Treasurer,
Attorney, Engineer, Chief Street Official and Chief of Police, and other such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
   (B)   The Village Clerk, Treasurer, Attorney, Chief Street Official, members
of the Board of Health and other appointed officers, except regular police
officers, shall hold office for one year unless removed by the Chairperson of
the Village Board with the advice and consent of the Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (C)   (1)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Village Board of Trustees appoints any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
village ordinances and state law.
§ 31.02 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, combine or merge any
elective or appointive village office or village employment or any combination
of duties of any such offices or employments, except that the office of Trustee
shall not be combined or merged with any other village office or village
employment except as provided in division (B) below.
      (2)   The village offices or village employments combined or merged shall
always be construed to be separate and the effect of the combination or merger
shall be limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (B)   (1)   The office of Trustee shall not be combined or merged with any
other village office or village employment, except that a member of the Board
of Trustees may receive compensation to perform seasonal or emergency work upon
approval by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   No member of the Board of Trustees shall receive compensation from
the village in excess of the maximum amount provided by law.
   (C)   The volunteer firefighters and rescue squad is under the Rural Fire
District.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
§ 31.03 VILLAGE CLERK-TREASURER.
   The appointive offices of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are hereby
combined and merged in accordance with the authority granted to the governing
body by §
31.02.
(Prior Code, § 1-203)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-209.02
§ 31.04 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances
and shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees.
After the period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant
to the Records Management Act, Neb. RS 84-1201 et seq., the Clerk may transfer
the journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees to the State Archives
of the State Historical Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall
also perform such other duties as may be required by the ordinances of the
village. If the Clerk is acting as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply
with the requirements of §
31.05(A)(3).
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the Board of Trustees within 30 days after any meeting
of the Board. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is
published in the village, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
village is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general
funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy village public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act, Neb. RS 84-1201 et seq. This shall not apply to the minutes of
the Clerk and the permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record
classified as permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers or other
documents of the village kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken
therefrom, except by such officers of the village as may be entitled to the use
of the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except
pursuant to Neb. RS 84-712(2).
      (2)   He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office,
including a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a
proper index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all
petitions under which the Board of Trustees shall order public work to be done
at the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to
all resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse
the date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto
and other documents incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference.
      (3)   He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign and attest all warrants
ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and resolutions under
his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees or committees.
With the seal of the village, he or she shall duly attest the Chairperson’s
signature to all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be attested to when
ordered to do so by the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the village ordinances. He or
she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some
other village officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall
keep a register of all licenses granted in the village and the purposes for
which they have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the Board
of Trustees or under the ordinances of the village. To each of the file copies
of the notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to the creation of paving
districts and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the village, and in the event that the claim is disallowed,
in part or in whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall
then prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all
proper cases.
§ 31.05 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money
belonging to the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall
give every person paying money into the Treasury a receipt for such money,
specifying the date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also
file copies of such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer
shall, at the end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an
account to the Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the Treasury
at the date of such account and the balance of money in the Treasury. He or she
shall also accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her,
which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed
with his or her account in the Village Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails
to render his or her account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a
later date established by the Board of Trustees, the Chairperson, with the
advice and consent of the Board, may use this failure as cause to remove the
Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the village, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the
bonds were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid or
canceled. He or she shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year
and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the village fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the village for the preceding fiscal year. The
statement shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or
17-606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be
charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody and may charge a fee for providing copies of
a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants and other evidences of debt against the village, whenever
paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the
Village Treasurer,” with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or
she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the
several owners and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
§ 31.06 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions
necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the village or
that may be ordered by the Board. When requested, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Board and give them his or her opinion upon any matters
submitted to him or her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or
she shall draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts,
franchises and other instruments as may be required, and he or she shall
perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or
ordinance. The Board shall have the right to pay the Village Attorney
compensation for legal services performed by him or her for it on such terms as
the Board and Attorney may agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and
to pay for such legal assistance, out of the funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The Village Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by
the Board of Trustees, the ordinance records and advise and assist the Village
Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be
taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and
subsisting local law insofar as its passage and approval are concerned.
§ 31.07 VILLAGE ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   The Village Engineer shall, when requested by the Board of Trustees,
make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or furnished
by contract with the village and make all surveys, estimates and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, the building of culverts,
sewers, electric light systems, waterworks, power plants, public heating
systems, bridges, curbing and gutters, the improvement of streets and the
erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform such other duties as the
Board may require.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Village Engineer, when ordered to do so by the Village Board of
Trustees, shall make surveys, estimates and calculations necessary to be made
for the establishment and maintenance of public works by the village.
(Neb. RS 17-213.01)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may employ a special engineer to make, or assist
in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided for in
Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have the
same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the Village
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)
   (D)   The Village Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the village and, when directed by the Board of
Trustees, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles and maps as may
be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the village and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 18-3301
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-919
§ 31.08 VILLAGE SUPERINTENDENT.
   A Village Superintendent may be appointed in the event that there is more
than one municipal utility, and the governing body determines that it is in the
best interest of the municipality to appoint one official to have the immediate
control over all the municipal utilities, streets, parks and construction and
demolition landfill. The Village Superintendent’s duties over the following
departments shall be as stated herein.
   (A)   Water Department. The Village Superintendent shall have general
supervision and control over the municipal water system and shall be primarily
responsible for its economic operation and prudent management. All actions,
decisions and procedures of the Village Superintendent shall be subject to the
general directives and control of the governing body. The Village
Superintendent shall have the general control and supervisory authority over
all employees of the water system which the governing body may from time to
time hire to operate and maintain the system. The Superintendent shall upon
request make a detailed report to the governing body of the condition of the
water system, of all mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs and machinery and such
improvements, repairs and extensions thereof as he or she may think proper. The
Superintendent shall perform such additional duties as may be prescribed by the
governing body.
   (B)   Sewer Department. The Village Superintendent shall have the immediate
control and supervision over all the employees, and property that make up the
municipal sewer system, subject to the general control and directives of the
governing body. The Superintendent shall, upon request, make a detailed report
to the governing body on the condition of the sewer system, and shall direct
their attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions and
additional employees as he or she may believe are needed along with an estimate
of the cost thereof. The Superintendent shall have such other duties as the
governing body may delegate to him or her. The Superintendent or his or her
duly authorized agents shall inspect and supervise all connections to the
municipal sewer system, and inspect and supervise all repairs made to the
system.
   (C)   Electrical system. The Village Superintendent shall have the immediate
control and supervision over all employees and property that make up the
municipal electrical system, subject to the general control and directives of
the governing body. The Superintendent shall, upon request, make a detailed
report to the governing body on the condition of the electrical system, and
shall direct their attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions,
additions and additional employees as he or she may believe are needed along
with an estimate of the cost thereof. The Superintendent shall have such other
duties as the governing body may delegate to him or her.
   (D)   Street Department. The Village Superintendent shall, subject to the
orders and directives of the governing body, have general charge, direction and
control of all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts and bridges of the
municipality, and shall perform such other duties as the governing body may
require. It shall be the Superintendent’s responsibility to see that gutters
and drains therein function properly, and that the same are kept in good
repair. The Superintendent shall, at the request of the governing body, make a
detailed report to the governing body on the condition of the streets,
sidewalks, culverts, alleys and bridges of the municipality, and shall direct
their attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions and
additional employees as he or she may believe are needed to maintain a
satisfactory street system in the municipality along with an estimate of the
cost thereof. The Superintendent shall assume such other duties as the
governing body may direct.
   (E)   Parks. The Village Superintendent shall have the responsibility for
the management and operation of the municipal parks subject to the general
control and directives of the governing body. The Superintendent shall upon
request make a detailed report to the governing body on the condition of the
municipal parks, and shall direct their attention to such improvements, repairs
and other items as he or she may believe are needed along with an estimate of
the cost thereof. The Superintendent shall have such other duties as the
governing body may delegate to him or her.
   (F)   Construction and demolition landfill. The Village Superintendent shall
have the immediate control and supervision of the construction and demolition
landfill, and of all dumping of garbage, refuse, waste and rubbish thereon,
subject to the general control and directives of the governing body. The
Superintendent shall, upon request, make a detailed report to the governing
body on the condition of the construction and demolition landfill, and shall
direct their attention to such improvements, additions and additional employees
as he or she may believe are needed along with an estimate of the cost thereof.
The Superintendent shall issue dumping permits if the governing body should
require them and shall inspect and supervise all work done to improve or extend
the landfill. The Superintendent shall have such other duties as the governing
body may delegate to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 1-212)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-214, 17-541 and 17-543
§ 31.09 CIVIL DEFENSE DIRECTOR.
   Pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 81, Article 8, the governing body may appoint a
Civil Defense Director to establish and implement a civil defense organization
in accordance with the state civil defense plan and program. The term of office
shall be for one year, unless sooner removed by the Chairperson, with the
advice and consent of the Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-213)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-604 and 81-829.46
§ 31.10 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   Pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1757, a code enforcement officer(s) is herein
established. Rules and regulations for the code enforcement officer(s) are as
follows.
   (A)   The officer shall be appointed by the Chairperson with the consent of
the Village Board. More than one officer may be appointed as determined by the
Village Board.
   (B)   The code enforcement officer(s) shall have the authority to enforce
fire, health and safety codes, constructional technical codes and violations of
this code of ordinances. As such, the officer(s) shall have the authority as
set forth in Neb. RS 18-1757 to issue citations for violations of fire, health,
safety code, constructional technical codes or any violation of this code that:
      (1)   Constitute infractions or violations of village ordinances;
      (2)   Are violations of fire, health, safety code or constructional
technical codes that the officer is charged with enforcing; and
      (3)   In which the circumstances do not pose a danger to the officer.
   (C)   (1)   The code enforcement officer(s) shall, upon assuming this
office, be trained by a certified law enforcement officer in the policies and
procedures for the issuance of citations.
      (2)   The code enforcement officer(s) will monitor and enforce a variety
of applicable ordinances, codes and regulations related to public nuisances,
animals, health and safety and other matters of public concern.
   (D)   Said payments for non-moving traffic violations and other offenses, as
defined in this code will be made at the Municipal Clerk’s office and shall not
be paid to the code enforcement officer(s).
   (E)   The code enforcement officer(s) shall act as the quarantine officer
and shall be the chief health officer(s) of the municipality. It shall be his
or her duty to notify the governing body and the Board of Health of health
nuisances with the municipality and its zoning jurisdiction.
   (F)   The code enforcement officer(s) shall be authorized to act in the
place of a Village Marshal or municipal police in provisions of this code
relating to solid waste, health and safety and nuisances, including abandoned
vehicles, and certain provisions of Title XIII.
(Ord. 487, passed 2-10-2025)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Boards and Commissions
   
32.01   Board of Health
   
32.02   Housing Authority Board
   
32.03   Tree Board
   
32.04   Planning Commission
   
32.05   Community Development Agency
   
32.06   Violations Bureau
 
   
32.99   Penalty
**** BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS ****
§ 32.01 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Board of Health consisting
of three members: the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, who shall be
Chairperson, and two other members. One member shall be a physician or health
care provider, if one can be found who is willing to serve. Such physician or
health care provider, if appointed, shall be the Board of Health’s medical
advisor. If the Board of Trustees has appointed a Chief of Police, the Chief of
Police may be appointed to the Board of Health and serve as secretary and
quarantine officer.
      (2)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the force and effect of
law, to safeguard the health of the people of such village and prevent
nuisances and unsanitary conditions. The Board of Health shall enforce such
rules and regulations and provide fines and punishments for violations.
      (3)   The appointees shall hold office for one year unless removed by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees with the advice and consent of the
Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (B)   The Board of Health shall reorganize at its meeting each year after
the Board of Trustees’ meeting when appointments are regularly made and, if
necessary, select a member to serve as Secretary. No member of the Board of
Health shall hold more than one Board of Health position. The Secretary shall
keep full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file the same
with the Village Clerk, where they shall be available for public inspection
during office hours.
   (C)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board of Trustees may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
two members of the Board of Health.
   (D)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation.
The Board of Health shall be funded by the Board of Trustees from time to time
out of the General Fund.
   (E)   The Board of Health may regulate, suppress and prevent the occurrence
of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the village
relating to nuisances and to matters of sanitation which affect the health and
safety of the people. The Board shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the Board of Trustees may direct.
   (F)   All members of the Board of Health shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the Board of Trustees may,
from time to time, designate.
Cross-reference:
   Health and safety regulations, see
Chapter 91
§ 32.02 HOUSING AUTHORITY BOARD.
   (A)   Created, appointment.
      (1)   The governing body shall appoint five persons who shall constitute
the Housing Authority, and such persons shall be called the Commissioners. One
Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each Commissioner shall serve a
five-year term of office or until his or her successor is duly appointed;
provided, that all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. The
governing body may appoint one of its members to serve as one of the five
members of such Housing Authority for such term as the governing body may
determine. No person shall serve as a Commissioner unless he or she resides
within the area of operation of that Housing Authority. A certificate of the
appointment or reappointment of any Commissioner shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk, and such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the
proper appointment of such Commissioner. A Commissioner shall receive no
compensation for his or her services, but he or she shall be entitled to the
necessary expenses, including travel expenses, incurred in discharge of his or
her duties.
      (2)   A majority of Commissioners shall constitute a quorum of the
Authority for the purpose of conducting its business, exercising its powers and
for all other purposes. Action may be taken by the Authority upon the vote of
the majority of the Commissioners present unless, in any case, the bylaws of
the Authority shall require a larger number. The Commissioners shall elect a
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from among the Commissioners and shall have
the power to employ an executive director who shall serve as ex officio
Secretary of the Authority. The Authority may also employ legal counsel, or it
may call upon the chief law officer of the municipality, for such services as
it may require. It may employ technical experts and such other officers, agents
and employees as it may require and shall determine their qualifications,
duties, compensations and terms of office. The Authority may delegate such
other powers and duties to its agents or employees as it may deem proper.
      (3)   During his or her tenure, and for one year thereafter, no
Commissioner, officer or employee of the Municipal Housing Authority shall
voluntarily acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in any project or in any
property included or planned to be included in any project, or in any contract
or proposed contract relating to any housing project. If any such Commissioner,
officer or employee involuntarily acquires any such interest, or voluntarily or
involuntarily acquired any such interest prior to appointment or employment as
Commissioner, officer or employee, he or she shall immediately disclose his or
her interest in writing to the Authority, and such disclosure shall be entered
upon the minutes of the Authority, and he or she shall not participate in any
action by the Authority relating to the property or contract in which he or she
has any such interest; provided, that nothing herein shall apply to the
acquisition of any interest in notes or bonds of the Authority issued in
connection with any housing project, or to the execution of agreements by
banking institutions for deposit or handling of funds in connection with a
project or to act as Trustee under any trust indenture, or to utility services,
the rates for which are fixed or controlled by a governmental agency.
      (4)   The Chairperson of the governing body may remove a Commissioner for
neglect of duty or misconduct in office in the manner prescribed hereinafter.
The Chairperson shall send a notice of removal to such Commissioner, which
notice shall contain a statement containing the charges against him or her.
Unless, within ten days from the receipt of such notice, such Commissioner
files with the Clerk a request for a hearing before the governing body, the
Commissioner shall be deemed as removed from office. If a request for a hearing
is filed with the Clerk, the governing body of the municipality shall hold a
hearing at which the Commissioner shall have the right to appear in person or
by counsel, and the governing body shall determine whether the removal shall be
disapproved or upheld. If the removal is disapproved, the Commissioner shall
continue to hold his or her position.
      (5)   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to
the governing body on all such information at the governing body’s regular
meeting in January each year.
(Prior Code, § 2-202)
   (B)   Continued existence as Housing Agency.
      (1)   The local housing authority established under prior state law and
in existence on January 1, 2000, shall have continued existence as a housing
agency under the State Housing Agency Act.
      (2)   The local housing agency shall conduct its operations consistent
with the State Housing Agency Act. All property, rights in land, buildings,
records and equipment and any funds, money, revenue, receipts or assets of the
authority belong to the agency as successor. All obligations, debts,
commitments and liabilities of the authority are obligations, debts,
commitments and liabilities of the successor agency.
      (3)   Any resolution by the authority and any action taken by the
authority prior to January 1, 2000, with regard to any project or program which
is to completed within or to be conducted for a 12-month period following
January 1, 2000, and which resolution or action is lawful under state law as it
existed prior to January 1, 2000, is a lawful resolution or action of the
successor agency and binding upon the successor agency and enforceable by or
against the agency notwithstanding that such resolution or action is
inconsistent with, not authorized by or prohibited under the provisions of the
State Housing Agency Act.
      (4)   All Commissioners of the local housing agency and all officers,
legal counsel, technical experts, directors and other appointees or employees
of the agency holding office or employment by virtue of any such prior law on
January 1, 2000, shall be deemed to have been appointed or employed under the
State Housing Agency Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-203)
   (C)   Ownership. The Municipal Housing Authority is owned by the
municipality and operated through the Housing Authority Commission. The Housing
Authority shall constitute a body corporate and politic and shall have all the
powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and
provisions of the State Housing Agency Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-204)
   (D)   Definitions. Except as otherwise specifically provided, the
definitions and terms set out in the state statutes relating to housing
authorities under the State Housing Agency Act are hereby adopted by reference
as they now exist or may hereafter be amended.
(Prior Code, § 2-205)
   (E)   Operation and management. The Authority shall at all times observe the
following duties with respect to rentals and tenant selection.
      (1)   It may rent or lease dwelling accommodations therein only to
persons of low income, elderly or handicapped persons of low income, and
displaced persons in need.
      (2)   There shall be no discrimination in the eligibility or occupancy of
tenants on the basis of race, religion, color, creed, national origin or
ancestry.
      (3)   The Authority shall not accept any person as a tenant in any
dwelling in the housing project if the applicant has an annual income which
equals or exceeds the amount which the Authority has conclusively determined to
be sufficient to enable one to secure, safe, sanitary and uncongested dwelling
accommodations within the area served by the Authority and to provide an
adequate standard of living.
      (4)   The Authority may rent or lease to a tenant a dwelling consisting
of a number of rooms which is deemed necessary to provide safe and sanitary
accommodations to the occupants without overcrowding.
      (5)   The Authority shall fix income limits for occupancy and rents after
taking into consideration:
         (a)   The family size, composition, age, physical handicaps and other
factors which might affect the rent-paying ability of the person; and
         (b)   The economic factors which affect the financial stability and
solvency of the project.
      (6)   The Authority may accept as a tenant any displaced person or
persons in need, regardless of income, but in no event shall such person or
persons remain as a tenant or tenants of the Authority for more than a period
of six months unless such persons also qualify as persons of low income,
elderly or handicapped persons of low income.
      (7)   All persons of low income, elderly or handicapped persons of low
income, or displaced persons in need, shall be entitled to the benefits of this
section and the Authority may establish rules and regulations consistent with
the purposes of this section concerning eligibility and occupancy of the
housing project or other such shelter.
      (8)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the right of the Authority to inquire
into the financial condition, family composition, medical, personal and
employment history of any tenant or prospective tenant.
      (9)   The Authority shall prohibit subletting by tenants.
(Prior Code, § 2-206)
   (F)   Rules and regulations.
      (1)   The Housing Authority may establish from time to time rules and
regulations consistent with the purposes of the State Housing Agency Act
concerning the priority of eligible applicants for occupancy who are entitled
to the benefits of status as a member of the armed forces or armed forces or
veteran, or as a disabled member of the armed forces or veteran and the
applicant’s age or disability, housing conditions, urgency of housing need and
source of income.
      (2)   In any such system of priority, displaced persons in need shall
have a priority ahead of all other such persons who may be entitled to the
benefits of the law.
      (3)   No tenant in good standing in occupancy and qualified for continued
occupancy shall have his or her tenancy terminated in order to provide dwelling
units for classes or categories of applicants as the authority may establish.
(Prior Code, § 2-207)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1576
   State Housing Agency Act, see Neb. RS 71-1572 to 71-15,168
§ 32.03 TREE BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Tree Board for the
municipality that shall consist of three to five members. The Chairperson with
the approval of the other members of the governing body shall appoint the Tree
Board members.
   (B)   The term of the persons appointed shall be three years. In the event
that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his or her successor
shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
   (C)   Members of the Tree Board shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Board to study,
investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually, and administer a plan
for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or
disposition of trees in parks, along streets and in any other municipal
properties. Such plan will be presented annually to the governing body, and,
upon its acceptance and approval, the plan shall make up the official
comprehensive village tree plan for the municipality. The Tree Board, when
requested by the governing body, shall report and recommend upon any special
matters of question coming within the scope of its work.
   (E)   The Tree Board shall choose its own officers and make its own rules
and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-208) (Ord. 498, passed 3-9-2026)
§ 32.04 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five regular members who
shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the municipality and shall be appointed by the Chairperson, by
and with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the Village
Board. One of the regular members may be resident of the area over which the
municipality is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulations.
   (B)   When there is a sufficient number of residents in the area over which
the municipality exercises extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulations,
one regular member of the Commission shall be a resident from such area. If it
is determined by the Village Board that a sufficient number of residents reside
in the area subject to extraterritorial zoning or subdivision regulations, and
no such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the first available
vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of such an
individual. For purposes of this section, a SUFFICIENT NUMBER OF RESIDENTS
shall mean 200 residents. A number of Commissioners equal to a majority of the
number of regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of any business. All regular members of the Commission
shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other municipal office
except when appointed to serve on the Board of Adjustment as provided in Neb.
RS 19-908. The term of each regular member shall be three years, except that
for the initial Planning Commission board which consisted of nine members,
three regular members of the first Commission to be so appointed shall serve
for terms of one year, three for terms of two years and three for terms of
three years. All regular members shall hold office until their successors are
appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the Village Board, be
removed by the Chairperson with the consent of a majority vote of the members
elected to the Village Board for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance
in office or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring other than
through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the
term by the Chairperson.
   (C)   The village may provide for the appointment of one alternate member to
the Planning Commission who shall be chosen by the Chairperson with the
approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the Village Board. The
alternate member shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other
municipal office. The term of the alternate member shall be three years, and he
or she shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed and approved.
The alternate member may be removed from office in the same manner as a regular
member. If the alternate member position becomes vacant other than through the
expiration of the term, the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion
of the term by the Chairperson with the approval of the majority vote of the
elected members of the Village Board. The alternate member may attend any
meeting and may serve as a voting and participating member of the Commission at
any time when less than the full member of regular Commission members is
present and capable of voting.
   (D)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of a
Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except the Village Board may require the Commission to meet more
frequently, and the Chairperson of the Commission may call for a meeting when
necessary to deal with business pending before the Commission. The Commission
shall adopt rules and regulations for the transaction of business and shall
keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations,
which shall be a public record. The Commission shall also appoint a secretary,
who will be an ex officio member. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep
the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same
with the Village Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection
during regular office hours.
   (E)   The Village Board may provide the funds, equipment and accommodations
necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures of the
Commission shall be within the amounts appropriated for that purpose by the
Village Board; and no expenditures or agreements for expenditures shall be
valid in excess of such amount.
   (F)   The Planning Commission shall:
      (1)   Make and adopt plans for the physical development for the
municipality, including any areas outside its boundaries which in the
Commission’s judgment bear relation to the planning of such municipality and
including a comprehensive development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
      (2)   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital improvement
program, subdivision regulations, building codes and zoning ordinances in
cooperation with other municipal departments; and
      (3)   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions and citizens with
relations to the promulgation and implementation of the contents of the
comprehensive development plan and its implemental programs.
   (G)   The Village Board shall not take final action on matters relating to
the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building codes,
subdivision development, annexation of territory or zoning until it has
received a recommendation of the Planning Commission after such Commission in
fact has been created and is existent. Recommendation from the Commission shall
be received by the Village Board within 60 days after the Commission begins
consideration of such matters.
   (H)   The Commission shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such other duties as a Chairperson and Village Board may, from time
to time, designate.
(Ord. 389, passed 2-9-2009)
§ 32.05 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   There is hereby established, pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2101.01, a
Community Development Agency for the village.
   (B)   The Chairperson and the Board of Trustees of the village are hereby
designated to be the Community Development Agency for the village.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Village Board shall be the Chairperson of the
Community Development Agency; and the Village Clerk shall be the secretary of
the Community Development Agency.
   (D)   The Community Development Agency shall have the power and authority to
exercise those powers and authority granted to a community redevelopment
authority under Neb. RS 18-2101 through 18-2144. The Community Development
Agency shall also have the power and authority to do all community development
activities, and to do all things necessary to cooperate with the federal
government in all matters relating to community development program activities
as a grantee, or as an agent or otherwise, under the provisions of the Federal
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq.,
as amended through the Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1981,
being Pub. L. 97-35, title III, § 300, Aug. 13, 1981, 95 Stat. 384. The
Community Development Agency may levy taxes for the exercise of such
jurisdiction and authority and may issue general obligation bonds, general
obligation notes, revenue bonds and revenue notes, including those general
obligation and revenue refunding bonds and notes for the purposes set forth in
such sections and under the powers granted to any community redevelopment
authority described therein.
(Ord. 370, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 32.06 VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   Pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1729, a Violations Bureau is herein established.
Rules and regulations for the Violations Bureau are as follows.
   (A)   Such violations shall not be subject to prosecution in the courts,
except when payment of the penalty is not made within the time prescribed by
this section. When payment is not made within such time as this section
prescribes, the violations may be prosecuted in the same matter as other
ordinance violations.
   (B)   Payment of such non-moving traffic violations and other offenses as
defined in this code shall be made within ten days of the Violations Bureau
citation. When payment is not made within ten days of the date on the citation,
the violations may be prosecuted in the same manner as other ordinance
violations.
   (C)   Said payments for non-moving traffic violations and other offenses as
defined in this code will be made at the Municipal Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 489, passed 4-14-2025)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or refuses to comply with the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length or incorporated by
reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 2-301)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
Section
Meetings
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
33.03   Notice to news media
   
33.04   Village Board meetings; when; where; quorum
   
33.05   Emergency meetings
   
33.06   Attendance other than in person
   
33.07   Closed sessions
   
33.08   Public participation
   
33.09   Village Board; order of business
   
33.10   Votes
   
33.11   Minutes
   
33.12   Village Board; change in office
Bonds and Oaths
   
33.25   Bonds; requirements
   
33.26   Oath of office; village officials
Compensation; Conflicts of Interest
   
33.40   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
33.41   Conflict of interest involving contracts
 
   
33.99   Penalty
**** MEETINGS ****
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of any
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy or the taking of any action of the public body.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The Board of Trustees;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies created by the State Constitution,
statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
§ 33.02 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open the public in
order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
State Constitution, federal statutes and the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407
et seq.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be given by:
         (a)   1.   a.   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation
within the public body’s jurisdiction that is finalized for printing prior to
the time and date of the meeting;
               b.   Posting on such newspaper’s website, if available; and
               c.   Posting on a statewide website, if available, established
and maintained as a repository for such notices by a majority of state
newspapers.
            2.   Such notice shall be placed in the newspaper and on the
websites by the newspaper.
         (b)   1.   a.   Posting to the newspaper’s website, if available; and
               b.   Posting on a statewide website, if available, established
and maintained as a repository for such notices by a majority of state
newspapers if no edition of a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body’s jurisdiction is to be finalized for printing prior to the time
and date of the meeting.
            2.   Such notice shall be placed in the newspaper and on the
websites by the newspaper.
         (c)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in
such city, village or district. Such notice shall be posted by the village in
the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   (a)   In case of refusal, neglect or inability of the newspaper to
publish the notice, the public body shall:
            1.   Post such notice on its website, if available;
            2.   Request the newspaper submit a post on a statewide website, if
available, established and maintained as a repository for such notices by a
majority of state newspapers; and
            3.   Post such notice in a conspicuous public place in such public
body’s jurisdiction.
         (b)   The public body shall keep a written record of such posting
pursuant to division (B)(3)(a)1. and (B)(3)(a)2. above and a written record of
the request to the newspaper pursuant to division (B)(3)(a)2. above. The record
of such posting shall be evidence that such posting was done as required and
shall be sufficient to fulfill the requirement of publication.
      (4)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2) or
(B)(3) above, such notice may also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by such public body or such advisory committee.
      (5)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (6)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the Board of Trustees scheduled outside the corporate limits of the
village. The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include
items of an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
Statutory reference:
   Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency
   Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1411(7)
§ 33.03 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Village Clerk, in the case of the Board of Trustees, and the secretary
or other designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news
media requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.04 VILLAGE BOARD MEETINGS; WHEN; WHERE; QUORUM.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Board of Trustees shall, by ordinance, fix the time
and place of holding its stated meetings and may be convened at any time by the
Chairperson.
(Neb. RS 17-204)
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by the Board, special meetings may also
be called by any three members of the Board of Trustees. The object of a
special meeting shall be submitted to the Village Clerk in writing. The call
and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the
journal by the Clerk. On filing the call for a special meeting, the Clerk shall
notify the members of the Board of Trustees of the special meeting, stating the
time and its purpose.
   (B)   At the hour specified for a meeting, the Village Clerk shall proceed
to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a
quorum is present, the Board shall be called to order by the Chairperson.
   (C)   (1)   At all meetings of the Village Board of Trustees, a majority of
the Trustees shall constitute a quorum to do business. A smaller number may
adjourn from day to day and may compel the attendance of absent members in such
manner and under such penalties as prescribed by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-205)
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by the Board, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
§ 33.05 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes, and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or
telecommunications equipment. The provisions of §
33.03 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any
formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by not
later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.06 ATTENDANCE OTHER THAN IN PERSON.
   A public body may allow a member of the public or any other witness other
than a member of the public body to appear before the public body by means of
video or telecommunications equipment.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.07 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative vote of a
majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly necessary for the
protection of the public interest or for the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual and if that individual has not requested a
public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating the closed
session shall be identified in the motion to close.
   (B)   (1)   Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not be limited to,
such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (C)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer, immediately prior to the closed session, shall restate on the record
the limitation of the subject matter at the closed session. The public body
holding such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters
during the closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to
close as the reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in
open session before any formal action may be taken. For the purpose of this
section, FORMAL ACTION means a collective decision or a collective commitment
or promise to make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution,
order or ordinance or formation of a position or policy, but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (B)(1)(a) above.
   (D)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 33.08 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407
et seq., the public has the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings
of public bodies, and all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for
closed sessions called pursuant to §
33.07, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast or recorded by any
person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera, video equipment or
any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing. Except for
closed sessions called pursuant to §
33.07, a public body shall allow members of the public an opportunity to speak
at each meeting.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq., hold a meeting in a place
known by the body to be too small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq., be placed on a table in the meeting room
accessible to citizens. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be
informed about the location of the information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)
§ 33.09 VILLAGE BOARD; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the Village Board, the Village Clerk and such other village
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the village shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the order prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the Village Clerk.
§ 33.10 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a
village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
Cross-reference:
   Votes on ordinances, appropriations of money and contracts, see §
30.24
§ 33.11 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the village may have an
additional ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping
the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 33.12 VILLAGE BOARD; CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall meet at the time and place of the regular
meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing officers and the
outgoing members of the Board shall present their reports. Upon the outgoing
Board having completed its business, the outgoing Trustees shall surrender
their offices to the incoming Trustees, and the outgoing officers shall
thereupon each surrender to their successors in office all property, records,
papers and moneys belonging to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected Trustees and those continuing in office shall
convene immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize
themselves for the ensuing year. The Chairperson pro tempore shall call the
meeting to order. The Clerk shall report to the Board the names of all
Trustees-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The Board shall
examine the credentials of its members and any other elective officers of the
village to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to see that
such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk’s report shall
be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
   (C)   After ascertaining that all Trustees and officers are duly qualified
and after the Clerk has called the roll, the Board shall elect a Chairperson
and shall appoint the officers required by state law or village ordinance. The
Chairperson shall then proceed with the regular order of business.
**** BONDS AND OATHS ****
§ 33.25 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all
officers and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The village
may pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the village shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the village in such penalty as the Board
of Trustees may fix.
      (2)   (a)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished.
         (b)   The municipality may pay the premium for the bond or insurance
coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a minimum, an aggregate
of the amounts fixed by law or by the Board of Trustees, and with such terms
and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the Village Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and village
officers, within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at
which they were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Nebraska Constitution Article XVII § 5.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of village officers shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties, who
shall be freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any
official bond of a village officer may be executed by the officer as principal
and by a guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety, or by two or
more such companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact
business in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a village
officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his
or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the Board of Trustees and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
instrument by the Chairperson and Village Clerk pursuant to the approval of the
Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
or irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No village official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   (1)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to
have his or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and
filed for record within the time limited by this section, the Village Clerk
shall immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant.
      (2)   (a)   If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section.
         (b)   If such person does not file the bond within ten days of the
issuance of such order for appointed officials or before the date for taking
office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not shown within that
time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become vacant, and such
vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or appointment as the
law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   (1)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of
the village, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, become insufficient, the
Board may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may
give a new bond or additional sureties as directed.
      (2)   If the officer fails, refuses or neglects to give a new bond or
additional sureties to the satisfaction and approval of the Board, the office
shall, by such failure, refusal or neglect, become vacant, and it shall be the
duty of the Board to appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the
office.
§ 33.26 OATH OF OFFICE; VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the village, whether elected or appointed, except
when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering
upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall
be endorsed upon their respective bonds.
“I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the
constitution of the United States and the constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Village Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
**** COMPENSATION; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST ****
§ 33.40 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The appointive officials and other employees of the village shall
receive such compensation as the Board of Trustees shall designate by
ordinance, and the annual salary of the Chairperson and other members of the
Board of Trustees shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-209)
   (B)   Trustees may perform, and upon Village Board of Trustees approval
receive compensation for, seasonal or emergency work subject to §
33.41.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
   (C)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe
the compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (D)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the village other
than his or her salary. The Board of Trustees shall not pay or appropriate any
money or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance
of any act, service or duty the doing or performance of which shall come within
the proper scope of the duties of any officer of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (E)   (1)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
31.02, except that when there are officers elected to the Board of Trustees, or
any other board or commission having more than one member, and the terms of one
or more members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all
members of such board or commission may be increased or diminished at the
beginning of the full term of any member thereof.
      (2)   No person who shall have resigned or vacated any office shall be
eligible to the same during the time for which he or she was elected if during
the same time the salary was increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
§ 33.41 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest,
or is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair
market value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the village which
spends and administers its own funds who is dealing with a contract made by
that board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected village official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by the decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body or any resident within the jurisdiction
of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after the contract
is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of any
person for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor or
services furnished under the contract to the extent the governing body has
benefited thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for the purposes of this
section. The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a
corporation shall not constitute an interest within the meaning of this
section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
not later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) above
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or refuses to comply with the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length or incorporated by
reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Generally
   
34.02   Notice
   
34.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
34.04   Special elections
   
34.05   Election of officers; certification
   
34.06   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
34.07   Filing fee
   
34.08   Caucus candidates
   
34.09   Petition, write-in and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
34.10   Certificate of nomination or election
   
34.11   Inability to assume office
   
34.12   Recall procedure
   
34.13   Tie votes
   
34.14   Ballots
   
34.15   Exit polls; poll watchers
§ 34.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   All village issues and offices shall be combined on the
statewide primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance
of separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if village offices
or issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise.
      (2)   All village elections involving the election of officers shall be
held in accordance with the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq., and in
conjunction with the statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the village holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. Any other election held by the village
shall be held as provided in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the
charter, code or bylaws of the village.
   (C)   The village shall furnish to the Secretary of State and Election
Commissioner or County Clerk any maps and additional information which the
Secretary of State and Election Commissioner or County Clerk may require in the
proper performance of their duties in the conduct of elections and the
certification of results.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all village elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 34.03 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the
village on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all village
elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 34.04 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the village shall be
certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk on
or before the eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election may be
held by mail as provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special
election under this section shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village
may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a
statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the
general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the Village Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or
posting of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other
than the notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue
ballots for early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue,
including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election
returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots
shall be counted and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the
other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County
Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the
election results to the Board of Trustees. The canvass by the County Canvassing
Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   (1)   A village that has submitted an issue for a special election
under division (A)(1) above may cancel the special election if the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by
the political subdivision canceling the special election on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall be effective after
such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner, the village shall
be responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the canceled
election. Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in Neb. RS
32-1202 associated with preparing for and conducting a special election.
      (2)   A village that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2)
above may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the
village withdrawing the issue from the ballot not later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (C)   (1)   Any special election under the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et
seq., shall be held on the first Tuesday following the second Monday of the
selected month, except that if such day falls upon a legal holiday, the
election shall be held on the first Tuesday following the first Monday of the
selected month. Except as otherwise specifically provided, no special election
shall be held under the Election Act in March, April, May, June, October,
November or December of an even-numbered year unless it is held in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election.
      (2)   No special election shall be held under the Election Act in August
or September of an even-numbered year except as provided in Neb. RS 32-564 and
except for a special election by a political subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS
13-519 to exceed an applicable allowable growth percentage, or Neb. RS 77-3444
to exceed a property tax levy limit in Neb. RS 77-3442.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
§ 34.05 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATION.
   Not later than June 15 of each even-numbered year, the Village Board shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner or the County
Clerk the name of the village, the number of officers to be elected, the length
of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and length of
the remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered voter
for each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner and County Clerk
shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.06 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective village officers shall be nominated and elected on a
nonpartisan basis unless the village provides for a partisan ballot by
ordinance. No ordinance providing for nomination and election on a partisan
ballot shall permit affiliation with any party not recognized as a political
party for the purposes of the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. Such
ordinance providing for nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall be
adopted and effective not less than 60 days prior to the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 34.07 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall be
paid to the Village Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for village
office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the General Fund
of the village. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper
payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the Village
Treasurer’s office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, the filing fee shall
be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the year
preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the Board of
Trustees prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the
Board of Trustees, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 34.08 CAUCUS CANDIDATES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, call a caucus for the purpose
of nomination of candidates for offices to be filled in the village election.
This caucus shall be held at least ten days before the filing deadline for that
election, and the Board of Trustees shall publish notice of the caucus in at
least one legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the county at least
once each week for two consecutive weeks before the caucus.
(Neb. RS 17-601.01)
   (B)   The Chairperson of the caucus at which candidates are nominated shall
notify the Village Clerk in writing of the candidates so nominated not later
than two days following the caucus. The Village Clerk shall then notify the
persons so nominated of their nomination, this notification to take place not
later than five days after the caucus. No candidate so nominated shall have his
or her name placed upon the ballot unless, not more than ten days after the
holding of the caucus, he or she files with the Village Clerk a written
statement accepting the nomination of the caucus and pays the filing fee, if
any, for the office for which he or she was nominated.
(Neb. RS 17-601.02)
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not preclude in any manner any
person from filing for the offices to which this section is applicable, either
by direct filing or by petition.
(Neb. RS 17-601.03)
§ 34.09 PETITION, WRITE-IN AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate:
         (a)   Files for the office by petition as prescribed in divisions (B)
and (D) below;
         (b)   Files as a write-in candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615;
or
         (c)   Is nominated by political party convention or committee pursuant
to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of this
section and Neb. RS 32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and
the name and address of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be
filed with the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed
by registered voters residing in the village, if candidates are chosen at
large, or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are
chosen by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner
as provided for candidate filing forms in state law. Petition signers and
petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and
32-630. No petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached
thereto a receipt showing the payment of the filing fee required pursuant to
Neb. RS 32-608. Except as provided in Neb. RS 32-621, petitions shall be filed
by August 1 in the year of the general election for partisan offices and
September 1 in the year of the general election for nonpartisan offices, and
all signed petitions not filed with the filing officer by such date shall
become invalid.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   In addition to the requirements of this section and Neb. RS 32-619, if
the Secretary of State is the filing officer for a petition for nomination for
partisan and nonpartisan offices, the form of the petition shall be
substantially as follows.
 
   Petition for Office for General Election
 
      Name of candidate: _________________________________________
      Residence address: __________________________________________
      City, state and zip code: ____________________________________
      Name of office: _____________________________________________
      District (if applicable): ________________________________________
      Party affiliation (if applicable): _________________________________
 
      To the Honorable ______________, Secretary of State for the State of Nebraska:
 
         We, the undersigned residents of the State of Nebraska and the county of
_______________, respectfully demand that the above-named candidate be placed on the
ballot at the general election to be held on the _____ day of _________, 20_____, and
each for himself or herself says:
 
         I have personally signed this petition on the date opposite my name;
 
         I am a registered voter of the State of Nebraska and the county of
________________ and am qualified to sign this petition or I will be so registered and
qualified on or before the date on which this petition is filed with the Secretary of
State; and
 
         My printed name, date of birth, street and number or voting precinct, and
city, village or post office address are correctly written after my signature.
 
      (Here follow numbered lines for signature, printed name, date of birth, date,
street and number or voting precinct, and city, village or post office address.)
 
(Neb. RS 32-617.01)
   (D)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the village or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected,
not to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
      (3)   If the filing officer verifies signatures in excess of 110% of the
number necessary to place the candidate upon the ballot, the filing officer may
stop verifying signatures and consider the petition sufficient and valid.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
§ 34.10 CERTIFICATE OF NOMINATION OR ELECTION.
   (A)   The Election Commissioner, County Clerk or Municipal Clerk shall, on
or before the sixth Monday after the election, prepare, sign and deliver a
certificate of nomination or a certificate of election to each person whom the
County Canvassing Board has declared to have received the highest vote for each
municipal office. No person shall be issued a certificate of nomination as a
candidate of a political party unless such person has received a number of
votes at least equal to 5% of the total ballots cast at the primary election by
registered voters affiliated with that political party in the district which
the office for which he or she is a candidate serves.
   (B)   A certificate of election prepared by the Municipal Clerk shall be in
the form as nearly as possible prescribed in Neb. RS 32-1033 and shall be
signed by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, under the seal of the
municipality, and countersigned by the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-711)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-558 and 32-1033
§ 34.11 INABILITY TO ASSUME OFFICE.
   (A)   If the candidate who received the highest number of votes for a
nonpartisan office in a general election is ineligible, disqualified, deceased
or for any other reason unable to assume the office for which he or she was a
candidate, and the registered voters had reasonable notice of such disability
at the time of the election, the candidate who received the next highest number
of votes to the candidates who would normally receive certificates of election
shall be declared elected and shall be entitled to a certificate of election,
if he or she received not less than 35% of the total number of votes cast for
the office in the election and the number of persons to be elected for the
office is not greater than two, and not less than 10% when the number of
persons to be nominated for the office is greater than two. If the candidate
who received the next highest number of votes received less than the required
percentage, if no other person was a candidate for the office, or if the
registered voters did not have reasonable notice at the time of the election of
the disability of the candidate who received the highest number of votes to
merit a certificate of election, a vacancy in such office shall be declared to
exist at the time of commencement of the term, and the vacancy may be filled as
prescribed by law for such office.
   (B)   The determination of whether the registered voters had reasonable
notice for purposes of this section shall be made by the appropriate filing
officer under Neb. RS 32-607. The decision of the filing officer may be
appealed to the district court.
(Prior Code, § 1-712)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-625
§ 34.12 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING OFFICER. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   Any member of the Board of Trustees may be removed from office by
recall pursuant to this section.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing a member of
the Board of Trustees be submitted to the registered voters shall be signed by
registered voters equal in number to at least 45% of the total vote cast for
the person receiving the most votes for that office in the last general
election. The signatures shall be affixed to petition papers and shall be
considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing officer.
Prior to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form
shall be signed and filed with the filing officer by at least one registered
voter. Such voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or
circulators of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and
office of the Trustee sought to be removed, shall include in concise language
of 60 words or less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall
request that the filing officer issue initial petition papers to the principal
circulator for circulation.
      (4)   After receiving the filing form, the filing officer shall notify
the Trustee by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification
cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in
Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving a copy of the filing form at the Trustee’s usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the Trustee’s last
known address. If the Trustee chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement
in concise language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such
defense statement shall be submitted to the filing officer within 20 days after
the Trustee receives the copy of the filing form. The filing officer shall
prepare the petition papers within five business days after receipt of the
defense statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the
petition papers within 20 days after being notified by the filing officer that
the petition papers are available. The filing officer shall notify the
principal circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be
gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (5)   The filing officer, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance and the number of papers issued. The filing
officer shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing officer may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (6)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing officer within 30 days after the filing officer
issues the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators
as provided in division (C) above.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
filing officer shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. Any person may remove his or her name
from a petition as provided in Neb. RS 32-632. If the petition is found to be
sufficient, the filing officer shall attach to the petition a certificate
showing the result of such examination. If the requisite number of signatures
has not been gathered, the filing officer shall file the petition in his or her
office without prejudice to the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
officer shall notify the Trustee whose removal is sought and the Board of
Trustees that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the
Trustee shall be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the Trustee’s usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the Trustee’s last
known address.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the filing officer pursuant to division (F)(1) above, order
an election. The date of the election shall be the first available date that
complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the village within 90 days after
such notification, the Board shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the Trustee whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the Board may cancel the recall election if the Board notifies the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election; otherwise, the recall election shall be
held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a filing officer is subject to a recall election, the Secretary
of State shall conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) above shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the Trustee named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the Trustee shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the Trustee named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the Trustee is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office, which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section, Neb. RS 32-567 through 32-570, 32-574 and 32-606.01.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the Trustee in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall order a recount of the votes
cast unless the Trustee files a written statement with the filing officer that
he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the Board of Trustees at one time due to the recall of such members,
a special election to fill such vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously
as possible by the Secretary of State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
Candidates for the special election shall file a candidate filing form pursuant
to Neb. RS 32-606.01.
      (5)   No Trustee who is removed at a recall election or who resigns after
the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
Board of Trustees during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
Trustee within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
§ 34.13 TIE VOTES.
   In the case of a tie vote of any of the candidates in either the primary or
general election, the County Clerk shall notify such candidates to appear at
his or her office on a given day and hour to determine the same by lot before
the Canvassing Board, and the certificate of nomination or election shall be
given accordingly. Notice to appear shall be given by certified mail. If a
candidate or candidate’s representative fails to appear at the given day and
hour, a person designated by the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
participate in the candidate’s stead.
(Prior Code, § 1-714)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-1122
§ 34.14 BALLOTS.
   The County Clerk shall provide printed ballots for every general municipal
election, and the expense of printing and delivering the ballots and cards of
instruction shall be a charge upon the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-715)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-807
§ 34.15 EXIT POLLS; POLL WATCHERS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place, or, if inside
the polling place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter’s ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker’s duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in Neb. RS 32-918 unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in Neb. RS 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not do any electioneering or disseminate any
information or materials advertising or advocating for or against any ballot
measure while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of election shall
post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from the
sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box and any
ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly visible to
the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on election
day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll watcher
from being in the polling place.
   (C)   (1)   No counting watcher or observer shall prevent any election
worker from performing the worker’s duties.
      (2)   A counting watcher or observer shall maintain a distance of at
least eight feet from any ballots, ballot boxes, sign-in registers and vote-
counting devices, except that if the counting location is not large enough for
a distance of eight feet, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall post
a notice of the minimum distance the counting watcher or observer must maintain
from any ballots, ballot boxes, sign-in registers and vote-counting devices.
The posted notice should be clearly visible to the counting watcher or observer
and shall be posted prior to the Counting Board convening. The minimum distance
shall not be determined to exclude a counting watcher or observer from being in
the counting location except as provided in Neb. RS 32-1013(4).
(Neb. RS 32-1525) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Annual audit; financial statements
   
35.03   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
35.04   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
35.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
35.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
35.07   Special assessment fund
   
35.08   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
35.09   Deposit of funds
   
35.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
35.11   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
35.12   Surplus utility funds; disposition
   
35.13   Bond issues
   
35.14   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
35.15   Credit cards; authority to accept
Annual Budget
   
35.30   Fiscal year
   
35.31   Budget procedures
   
35.32   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
35.33   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
35.34   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
35.35   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
35.36   Appropriation bill
   
35.37   Budget revision
   
35.38   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
Tax Levies
   
35.50   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
   
35.51   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
35.52   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
   
35.53   Property tax request; procedure for setting
   
35.54   Motor vehicle fee
Economic Development Program
   
35.65   Implementation of Economic Development Program
   
35.66   Administration of the plan
   
35.67   Citizen Advisory Committee
   
35.68   Confidentiality
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the village that provides for a biennial period
to determine and carry on the village’s financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two fiscal years comprising a biennium, commencing in
odd-numbered or even-numbered years, used by the village in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the village has a lottery established under
the State County and Village Lottery Act, Neb. RS 9-601 et seq., only those net
proceeds which are actually received by the village from a licensed lottery
operator shall be considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include
amounts awarded as prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
§ 35.02 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
village.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs or
financial condition of the village and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the village, or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
village fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the village’s
accounts to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the village for that preceding fiscal
year. The audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report
made by the accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of
the fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a
written resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees may
request a waiver of the audit requirement subject to the requirements of Neb.
RS 84-304.
         (b)   If the village is required to conduct an audit under Neb. RS 84-
304 and owns or operates any type of public utility or other enterprise which
substantially generates its own revenue, the Board of Trustees shall have that
phase of the village’s affairs reported separately from the other functions of
the village. The result of that audit shall appear separately in the annual
audit report made by the accountant to the village, and the audit shall be on a
cash or accrual basis at the discretion of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the village. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the
Village Clerk, and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
The annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the Village Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall provide and file with the Village Clerk,
not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the
village’s actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal
year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, see Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 35.03 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace or add to the electric distribution,
transmission or generation system of the village, no contract for enlargement
or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating
systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when the
cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing
over $30,000 shall be made unless it is first approved by the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the Board of Trustees
makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating systems,
bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Village Engineer and submitted to the Board of Trustees.
In advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the Board
of Trustees may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A village electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   Thirty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Sixty thousand dollars or less and the village electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   Ninety thousand dollars or less and the village electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   One hundred twenty thousand dollars or less and the village
electric utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of
$10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the village. In case of a public
emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive
windstorms, floods, snow, war or an exigency or pressing necessity or
unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths vote of the Board
of Trustees and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the Board
of Trustees receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received
by the Board of Trustees contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the
Board of Trustees may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the Board of Trustees, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the village, the Board of Trustees may authorize the
manufacture and assemblage of those materials and may thereafter approve the
estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any village bidding procedure may be waived by the Board of Trustees:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in the State Procurement Act,
Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to the provisions of Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a village which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 35.04 ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have no power to appropriate, issue or
draw any order or warrant on the Village Treasurer for money unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
35.05, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the Board of Trustees, or any
committee or member thereof, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the
officers or departments of the village, whether the object of the expenditures
shall have been ordered by the Board of Trustees or not, unless an
appropriation shall have been previously made concerning such expense, except
as otherwise expressly provided in division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 17-709)
   (C)   All warrants drawn upon the Village Treasurer must be signed by the
Chairperson and countersigned by the Village Clerk, stating the particular fund
to which the same is chargeable, the person to whom payable and for what
particular object. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so
drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget
statement for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended
of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 35.05 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the village shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the
Village Clerk.
      (3)   The Village Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the village in any action
brought against it for any claim, or for any claim allowed in part, which has
not been presented to the Board of Trustees to be audited unless the recovery
is for a greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   (1)   Upon the allowance of claims by the Board of Trustees, the order
for their payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of
which they are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement, and no
order or warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the
purpose for which it is drawn unless there is sufficient money in the Treasury
at the credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided, that if there
exists at the time such warrant is drawn obligated funds from the federal
government or the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for
the general purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn
in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to
the additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds.
      (2)   No claim shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for
the payment thereof may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 35.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The village shall have the authority to collect the special
assessments which it levies and to perform all other necessary functions
related thereto, including foreclosure.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees of any village collecting its own special
assessments shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be
mailed or otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against
whom those special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or
other party responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to
receive the notice shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the
special assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A village collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
Statutory reference:
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 35.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the Village
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the village for money expended for any
such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 35.08 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The village is hereby empowered to receive money or property by
donation, bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more
of the public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the
provisions of this section, as stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or
property so donated shall vest in the Board of Trustees, or in its successors
in office, who shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
sinking fund or funds. Provided, in the event of a donation of real estate, the
Board of Trustees may manage the real estate as in the case of real estate
donated to the village for village library purposes under the provisions of
Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, subject to all the limitations set forth in
this section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on
each $100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the village for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the village, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment or
repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
village libraries; village auditoriums or community houses for social or
recreational purposes; village halls; village public libraries, auditoriums or
community houses in a single building; village swimming pools; village jails;
village fire stations, together with firefighting equipment or apparatus;
village parks; village cemeteries; village medical buildings, together with
furnishings and equipment; or village hospitals. The village shall not be
authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as provided in this
division (B) if, having bonded indebtedness, such village has been in default
in the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten
years prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for the
submission of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as required
in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned village improvements mentioned in division
(B) above by the village, the Board of Trustees shall declare its purpose by
resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the village at the next
general village election the proposition to provide the village with the
specific village improvement planned under this section. The resolution of
submission shall, among other things, set forth a clear description of the
improvement planned, the estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the
amount of annual levy over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years,
required to provide such cost, and the specific name or designation for the
sinking fund sought to be established to carry out the planned improvement,
together with a statement of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at
the election. Notice of the submission of the proposition, together with a copy
of the official ballot containing the same, shall be published in its entirety
three successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village or, if no legal newspaper is in or of
general circulation in the village, in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the county in which the village is located. No such sinking fund
shall be established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more
of the legal votes of the village cast for or against the proposition. If less
than a majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund,
the planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied
therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in
connection therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be
repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner
prescribed in this division, the Board of Trustees and its successors in office
shall proceed to do all things authorized under such resolution of submission,
but never inconsistent with this section. The election provided for under this
section shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101
et seq.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the Village Treasurer, by donation or by tax
levy as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Treasurer, with the written approval of the Board of Trustees,
in the manner provided in §
35.11. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the Board
of Trustees and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the
Village Clerk in the proceedings of the Village Board. The sinking fund, or
sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the village voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds;
provided, that the question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or
sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance
for a period of one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 35.09 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received or held by him or her as Village Treasurer. These
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
Board of Trustees for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as a
member of the Board of Trustees or as any other officer of the village shall
not disqualify the bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying
mutual financial institution from acting as a depository for the village funds.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, Neb. RS 77-2386 et seq., to secure the payment of all such
deposits and accretions. The Board of Trustees shall approve this bond or
giving of security. The Village Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of
any money sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository so
designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   (1)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock
financial institutions.
      (2)   Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
§ 35.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The Village Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Board of Trustees
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. RS 16-714 through 16-716 as of the time the deposit is
made. Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 35.11 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the Village Treasurer holds funds of the village in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the Treasurer to
invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered warrants of the
village, in bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively by any of
the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks or the 13 banks for
cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration, or in
interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United States. The interest on
such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund out of which the bonds or
warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the village from public utilities and the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money
borrowed, and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there
be any surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for payment of
public utility bonds or for improvement of the works, or into the General Fund
as the Board may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Board so
directs, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United
States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water or gas funds, or the
funds arising from the sale of electric light, water or distribution
properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water or gas
distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after such
payments may be transferred to the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   (1)   Whenever the village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the Board of Trustees may invest any such surplus in excess of
current needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in
time deposits and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the State Capital Expansion Act, Neb. RS 17-
1269 et seq. and the State Funds Investment Act, Neb. RS 17-1237 et seq., and
as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of the State Investment
Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The State Investment
Officer shall, upon request, furnish a copy of current authorized investment
guidelines of the State Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (D)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital or to expand the investment authority of a local
government investment pool under the Public Entities Pooled Investment Act,
being Neb. RS 77-23,109 et seq.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
§ 35.12 SURPLUS UTILITY FUNDS; DISPOSITION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, direct and authorize the Municipal
Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light or water funds, or the funds
arising from the sale of electric light, water or natural gas distribution
properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water or gas
distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after such
payments may be transferred to the General Fund of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-824)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-609
§ 35.13 BOND ISSUES.
   The Board of Trustees may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 35.14 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The village may contract to retain a collection agency licensed
pursuant to the Collection Agency Act, Neb. RS 45-601 et seq., within or
without this state, for the purpose of collecting public debts owed by any
person to the village.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) above may be assigned to a
collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid.
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, DEBT shall include all delinquent
fees or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case
of debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
§ 35.15 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   (1)   If authorized by the Board of Trustees, any village official may
accept credit cards, charge cards or debit cards, whether presented in person
or electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
      (2)   A county treasurer, county official or political subdivision
official shall not accept a central bank digital currency as a method of cash
payment of any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine,
license, fee or assessment of whatever kind or nature.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the village
official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the Board of Trustees may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards
or debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic
funds transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for
services to reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The village official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company, or third-party merchant bank providing that service.
   (E)   (1)   The types of credit cards, charge cards or debit cards accepted
and the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer
and the Director of Administrative Services, with the advice of a committee
convened by the State Treasurer and the Director. The committee shall consist
of the State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the Director and representatives
from counties, villages and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate.
The committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of such
services. The State Treasurer and the Director shall contract with one or more
credit card, charge card or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks
for services on behalf of the state and those counties, villages and political
subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for such
services. The State Treasurer and the Director shall consider, for the purposes
of this section, any negotiated discount or processing or transaction fee
imposed by a credit card, charge card or debit card company or third-party
merchant bank, as an administrative expense.
      (2)   If the Board of Trustees chooses not to participate in the state
contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge cards and debit cards and
may negotiate and contract independently or collectively as a governmental
entity with one or more financial institutions, vending service companies,
credit card, charge card or debit card companies, or third-party merchant banks
for the provision of these services.
   (F)   Subject to the direction of the Board of Trustees, a village official
authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized, but not required, to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the village, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the
surcharge or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card
companies or third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division
(E) above. The surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed
by the operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card
involved or when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card
company involved. When a person elects to make a payment to the village by
credit card or charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed,
the payment of the surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by
that person and shall be in no case refundable. If a payment is made
electronically by credit card, charge card, debit card or electronic funds
transfer as part of a system for providing or retrieving information
electronically, the village official shall be authorized, but not required, to
impose an additional surcharge or convenience fee upon the person making a
payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CENTRAL BANK DIGITAL CURRENCY. A digital medium of exchange, token or
monetary unit of account issued by the United States Federal Reserve System or
any analogous federal agency that is made directly available to the consumer by
such federal entities. CENTRAL BANK DIGITAL CURRENCY includes a digital medium
of exchange, token or monetary unit of account so issued that is processed or
validated directly by such federal entities.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by nonpaper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire System.
(Neb. RS 13-609)
**** ANNUAL BUDGET ****
§ 35.30 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village and any public utility of the village
commences on October 1 and extends through the following September 30 except as
provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
§ 35.31 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 35.32 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   (1)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of
each succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period, and
until the adoption of the budget by the Board of Trustees in September, the
Board of Trustees may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current
expenses of the village.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the expenditures shall
not exceed an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last
budget in the equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period.
The expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each
individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   (1)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be
exceeded upon the express finding of the Board of Trustees that expenditures
beyond the amount authorized are necessary to enable the village to meet its
statutory duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the
expenditures in excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the
Board of Trustees in open public session.
      (2)   Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged against
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize
expenditures by the village in excess of that authorized by any other statutory
provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
§ 35.33 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall annually or biennially prepare a
proposed budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of
Public Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the
public prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
35.34.
      (2)   A proposed budget statement shall contain the following
information, except as provided by state law:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period,
the revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial periods, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (d)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be
raised from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
            1.   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal voters
of the political subdivision; and
            2.   For all other purposes.
         (e)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including
each proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget
statement prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS
18-2801 et seq., and a grand total of all funds maintained by the Board of
Trustees; and
         (f)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in
the budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement, which is approved by the Board of Trustees as provided in the
Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the village as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer
for the village and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget
statement.
   (C)   The village shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period, and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from the taxation
of personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Prior Code, § 1-804) (Ord. 343, passed 5-14-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Proprietary Function Act, see Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-504 and 13-505
§ 35.34 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together
with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at least
four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village’s jurisdiction. For the purposes of such notice,
the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the day of
hearing. When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget
summary may be posted at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters. At such
hearing, the governing body shall make at least three copies of the proposed
budget statement available to the public and shall make a presentation
outlining key provisions of the proposed budget statement, including, but not
limited to, a comparison with the prior year’s budget. Any member of the public
desiring to speak on the proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address
the governing body at the hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of
time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal
voters of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by the Board of Trustees, the budget shall be filed with
the Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting and noncompliance with the State Budget Act,
Neb. RS 13-501 et seq. or Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522. If the Auditor detects
such errors, he or she shall immediately notify the Board of such errors. The
Board shall correct any such error as provided in §
35.37. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted
under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance
for which the Auditor has notified the Board.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
§ 35.35 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the Board of Trustees shall file with
and certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each
year or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period, and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, if applicable, together with the
amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the
legal voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   (1)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10%
or more at the time of the filing and certification required under this
section, the Board of Trustees, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial
period and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, ANTICIPATED LITIGATION shall be
limited to the anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who or which
filed a similar action for the preceding year or biennial period which is still
pending.
      (3)   Except for such allowances, the Board of Trustees shall not certify
an amount of tax more than 1% greater or lesser than the amount determined
under Neb. RS 13-504 and 13-505.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall use the certified taxable values as
provided by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year
in setting or certifying the levy. The Board of Trustees may designate one of
its members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the Board by this
section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
§ 35.36 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the State
Budget Act, Neb. RS 13-501 et seq., to be termed “The Annual Appropriation
Bill,” in which the Board may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed
necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
§ 35.37 BUDGET REVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the Board of Trustees may
propose to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a
public hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it
becomes apparent to the Board of Trustees that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522 such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
         (c)   The Board of Trustees has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the State
Budget Act, Neb. RS 13-501 et seq.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   (1)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published
at least four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction. For the purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing.
      (2)   This published notice shall set forth:
         (a)   The time and place of the hearing;
         (b)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required
and for what purpose;
         (c)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if budget requirements are to be increased, reasons why the
previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
         (d)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget
previously published; and
         (e)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing, any taxpayer may appeal or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the Board of Trustees, the Board
shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the Board
of Trustees is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted. The Board of Trustees may then issue warrants in
payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These
warrants shall be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during
the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
35.34, the Board of Trustees may, or within 30 days after notification of an
error by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Board shall, correct an adopted
budget which contains a clerical, mathematical or accounting error which does
not affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction. After correction, the Board of Trustees shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
Board of Trustees is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The Board
of Trustees may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by
the budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511)
§ 35.38 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection, disposal
or handling utility or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the village.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the village’s General Fund in excess
of the amount paid by the village to the proprietary function for actual
service or services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the village’s General Fund shall have the same fiscal
year as the village.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the Village Clerk containing the following
information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
Village Clerk, the Board of Trustees shall conduct a public hearing on the
statement. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the
proposed proprietary budget statement and notice that the full proposed
proprietary budget statement is available for public review with the Village
Clerk during normal business hours shall be published one time at least five
days prior to the hearing in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation
within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the
Board’s jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the Village
Clerk within 20 days after its adoption and published in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction, or by mailing to
each resident within the Board’s jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   (1)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the Board of Trustees shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the Village Clerk and published in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction, or by mailing to each
resident within the Board’s jurisdiction.
      (2)   If the difference between the adopted proprietary budget for the
previous fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenues for that fiscal
year is greater than 10%, the proprietary function reconciliation statement
shall only be adopted following a public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the village
budget statement created pursuant to the State Budget Act, Neb. RS 13-501 et
seq., the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq., need not
be followed for that proprietary function. Any income from a proprietary
function which is transferred to the General Fund of the village shall be shown
as a source of revenue in the village budget statement created pursuant to the
State Budget Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
**** TAX LEVIES ****
§ 35.50 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of the state and this code
to the contrary, for any fiscal year, the Board of Trustees may decide to
certify to the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy required to be
raised by taxation for all village purposes instead of certifying a schedule of
levies for specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in §
35.51, the all-purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of $1.05 on each
$100 upon the taxable valuation of all the taxable property in the village.
Otherwise-authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the village may be made by the village in addition to such all-
purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in village
financing, the village shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the village in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or
in other legal manner as the Board of Trustees deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the village elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for General Fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 35.51 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the village for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The village may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the village’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Neb. RS 13-801
et seq. or the Joint Public Agency Act, Neb. RS 13-2501 et seq. The maximum
levy shall include amounts levied to pay for sums to support a library pursuant
to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-501, visiting community nurse,
home health nurse or home health agency pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue,
memorial or monument pursuant to Neb. RS 80-202. Property tax levies for
judgments, except judgments or orders from the Commission of Industrial
Relations, obtained against the village which require or obligate the village
to pay that judgment, to the extent the judgment is not paid by liability
insurance coverage of the village, for preexisting lease-purchase contracts
approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to
law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to
retire interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport are not included in the levy
limits established by this division (A). The limitations on tax levies provided
in this division (A) are to include all other general or special levies
provided by law. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the only exceptions
to the limits in this division (A) are those provided by or authorized by this
section. Tax levies in excess of the limitations in this section shall be
considered unauthorized levies under Neb. RS 77-1606 unless approved under
division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All airport authorities established under the Cities Airport
Authorities Act, Neb. RS 3-501 et seq., and community redevelopment authorities
established under the Community Development Law, Neb. RS 18-2101 et seq., may
be allocated property taxes, as authorized by law, which are authorized by the
village and are counted in the village levy limit provided by division (A)
above, except that such limitation shall not apply to property tax levies for
preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded
indebtedness approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and
for payments by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the
Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the
public airport. The Board of Trustees shall review and approve or disapprove
the levy request of the political subdivisions subject to this division (B).
The Board of Trustees may approve all or a portion of the levy request and may
approve a levy request that would allow a levy greater than that permitted by
law. The levy allocated by the village may be exceeded as provided in division
(C) below.
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to
village levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary
request for levy allocation to the Board of Trustees. The preliminary request
of the political subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a
majority vote of members present of the political subdivision’s governing body.
The failure of a political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall
preclude that political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS
77-3444 to exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the Chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the Board of Trustees and the governing body
of the political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The village may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above
by an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue to
the voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Trustees and
delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the village; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
on or before the fifth Friday prior to the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be not later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election, as called for in the resolution or petition, which
is at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. For
petitions filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May
1, 1998, the petition shall be in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628
through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the Board of Trustees to
terminate the authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth
fiscal year following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or
as provided in division (C)(9) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees may pass not more than one resolution calling
for an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year.
Only one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A) above, but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in
the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the Board of Trustees shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   In lieu of the election procedures in this division (C), the
village may approve a levy in excess of the limits in division (A) above for a
period of one year at a meeting of the residents of the village, called after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village at
least 20 days prior to the meeting. At least 10% of the registered voters
residing in the village shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of taking
action to exceed the limits or final levy allocation. A record shall be made of
the registered voters residing in the political subdivision or village who are
present at the meeting. The method of voting at the meeting shall protect the
secrecy of the ballot. If a majority of the registered voters present at the
meeting vote in favor of exceeding the limits, a copy of the record of that
action shall be forwarded to the County Board prior to October 10, and the
County Board shall authorize a levy as approved by the residents for the year.
If a majority of the registered voters present at the meeting vote against
exceeding the limits, the limit shall not be exceeded and the village shall
have no power to call for an election under this division (C).
      (9)   (a)   The village may rescind or modify a previously approved
excess levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue
to the voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of
Trustees and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the
village; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election, as called for in the
resolution or petition, which is at least 31 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of the election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be not later than 20
days prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election
Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)
§ 35.52 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   The Board of Trustees shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the village which the village
requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists, to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the village is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for
municipal purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same
person or a lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent
taxes. Such sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the
provision of law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all
respects be deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the
delinquent county taxes exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
§ 35.53 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit or community college, as determined using
the previous year’s rate of levy, the village’s property tax request for the
current year shall be no more than its property tax request in the prior year,
and the village’s rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased
accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization pursuant
to Neb. RS 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a resolution or ordinance
to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing
required in division (C) below. If the Board of Trustees seeks to set its
property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in the
prior year, it may do so, subject to the limitations provided in the School
District Property Tax Limitation Act, Neb. RS 79-3401 et seq. and the Property
Tax Growth Limitation Act, Neb. RS 13-3401 et seq., after holding the public
hearing required in division (C) below and by passing a resolution or ordinance
that complies with division (D) below. If any county, village or school
district seeks to increase its property tax request by more than the allowable
growth percentage, such political subdivision shall comply with the
requirements of Neb. RS 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C)
and (D) below.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, village, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit or community college, as
determined using the previous year’s rate of levy, the village’s property tax
request for the current year shall be no more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the Board of Trustee’s rate of levy for the current year
shall be adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of
Equalization pursuant to Neb. RS 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a
resolution or ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after
holding the public hearing required in division (C) below. If the Board of
Trustees seeks to set its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its
property tax request in the prior year, it may do so, subject to the
limitations provided in the School District Property Tax Limitation Act, Neb.
RS 79-3401 et seq. and the Property Tax Growth Limitation Act, Neb. RS 13-3401
et seq., after holding the public hearing required in division (C) below and by
passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with division (D) below. If any
county, village or school district seeks to increase its property tax request
by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political subdivision shall
comply with the requirements of Neb. RS 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in
divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
village at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For the purposes of
such notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but
not the day of hearing. If the village’s total operating budget, not including
reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the
notice may be posted at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the prior
year, the certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year
and the percentage increase or decrease in such valuations from the prior year
to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a village’s property tax request
under Neb. RS 77-1632 at an amount that exceeds the village’s property tax
request in the prior year shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the village;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by        percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $       per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The (name of village) proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $       per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of (name of village) will exceed last
year’s by        percent.
      (4)   The record vote of the Board of Trustees in passing such resolution
or ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (G)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Neb. RS 77-1632)
§ 35.54 MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE VILLAGE. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the village.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives and associations. PERSON does not include any federal,
state or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) below, the
governing body of the village shall have the power to require any individual
whose primary residence, or person who owns a place of business, which is
within the limits of the village and who owns and operates a motor vehicle
within such limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the
payment of such fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle.
         (b)   All such fees which may be provided for under this section shall
be used exclusively for constructing, repairing, maintaining or improving
streets, roads, alleys, public ways or parts thereof or for the amortization of
bonded indebtedness when created for such purposes.
      (2)   To ensure compatibility with the Vehicle Title and Registration
System maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles:
         (a)   Any village that collects the annual motor vehicle fee
authorized under this section shall use the plate types listed under Neb. RS
60-3,104 and, as applicable, weight categories listed under the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act, Neb. RS 60-301 et seq., when reporting information to the
Vehicle Title and Registration System; and
         (b)   Any village that adopts an annual motor vehicle fee under this
section or that modifies an existing motor vehicle fee shall notify the
Department of Motor Vehicles of such new or modified fee within ten business
days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such new or modified fee
and at least 60 days prior to the implementation of such new or modified fee.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the village for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the village and does not own
and operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the village; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a post secondary
institution within the limits of the village and the motor vehicle’s situs
under the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act, Neb. RS 60-101 et seq., is
different from the place at which he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the county in which
the village is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor
Vehicle Registration Act, Neb. RS 60-301 et seq., are paid. These fees shall be
credited by the County Treasurer to the Road Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 18-1214)
**** ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM ****
§ 35.65 IMPLEMENTATION OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.
   The Economic Development Program of Arnold, Nebraska (“the program” or “the
plan”), approved by the electors of the village at a special election held for
that purpose on July 11, 2006, is hereby established and ordered implemented in
accordance with the stated terms of the plan, the Local Option Municipal
Economic Development Act and other applicable state laws.
(Ord. 365, passed 8-14-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Local Option Municipal Economic Development Act, see Neb. RS 18-2701 et seq.
§ 35.66 ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN.
   (A)   In accordance with the plan, the Village Board will contract with the
Village Economic Development Corporation to serve as the Program Administrator
for the Village Economic Development Program. The Program Administrator:
      (1)   Will be responsible for the day-to-day activities of administering
the program;
      (2)   Will develop and make available an “Arnold Economic Development
Program Application for Financial Assistance” form;
      (3)   Will assist applicants and conduct active recruiting for potential
applicants to the extent possible;
      (4)   Will review applications on a timely basis;
      (5)   Will verify business information provided by eligible businesses to
the extent applicable and possible;
      (6)   Will negotiate the terms and conditions of the assistance to be
provided;
      (7)   Will make recommendations to the Village Board on program
expenditures;
      (8)   Will monitor participating businesses to ensure they are meeting or
have met funding requirements as necessary (to include verifying employment
figures of participating businesses’ various state business locations to ensure
they remain eligible in the village’s program by keeping employment levels in
all state communities at levels required by law);
      (9)   Will be responsible for the procedures to ensure that all
applicable laws, regulations and requirements are met by the municipality;
      (10)   Will provide for the review of all contracts, official documents
land transactions and other official actions related to the Economic
Development Program; and
      (11)   Will provide someone to attend meetings of the Citizen Advisory
Review Committee who will provide the committee with necessary information
either directly or through the village’s ex officio member of the Committee.
   (B)   The Program Administrator will be responsible for procedures to ensure
that the municipality and the qualifying businesses that receive financial
assistance meet all applicable laws, regulations and requirements. These
procedures will be subject to review and approval by the Village Board.
   (C)   The Program Administrator may use the Village Attorney to review all
contracts, official documents, land transactions and other official actions
related to the Economic Development Program, as well as applicable laws
annually, to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and
requirements. The Program Administrator may retain separate counsel, rather
than using the Village Attorney, for the review of any or all documents and
laws with the approval of the Village Board.
   (D)   If there is a conflict between this plan or the ordinance that governs
this plan and state statutes (both current and future), state statutes will
prevail.
(Ord. 365, passed 8-14-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Local Option Municipal Economic Development Act, see Neb. RS 18-2701 et seq.
§ 35.67 CITIZEN ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   In accordance with the plan, the Chairperson, subject to approval by the
Village Board, shall appoint not less than five or more than ten registered
voters of the village to serve as members of the Citizen Advisory Review
Committee, which shall be responsible for reviewing the functioning and
progress of the Economic Development Program and advising the Village Board
with regard to the program.
   (A)   Terms of the Citizen Advisory Committee shall be for four years except
that initial terms shall be established on a staggered basis to provide
continuity on the committee.
   (B)   The Chairperson shall designate a village official or employee to
serve as an ex officio member of the committee with responsibility for
assisting the committee and providing it with necessary information and advice
on the Economic Development Program.
   (C)   At least one individual on the committee must have expertise or
experience in the field of business, finance or accounting.
   (D)   No member of the Citizen Advisory Committee shall be an elected or
appointed village official, an employee of the village, a participant in a
decision making position regarding expenditures of program funds, or an
official or employee of any qualifying business receiving financial assistance
under the Economic Development Program or of any financial institution
participating directly in the Economic Development Program.
   (E)   The Citizens Advisory Review Committee will meet regularly as required
to review the program and will report to the village at least once in every
six-month period on its findings.
(Ord. 365, passed 8-14-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Local Option Municipal Economic Development Act, see Neb. RS 18-2701 et seq.
§ 35.68 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Information collected in the course of receiving or processing
applications for assistance under the Economic Development Program shall be
confidential, as provided in the Local Option Municipal Economic Development
Act.
   (B)   Such information shall be made available only to the Board and/or its
designated Application Review Committee and the Village Board, for the limited
purpose of determining eligibility for assistance under the plan. Unauthorized
disclosure of confidential business information shall be a Class III
misdemeanor. All persons involved in the program must sign statements of
confidentiality regarding all personal and private submissions by qualified
businesses.
(Ord. 365, passed 8-14-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Local Option Municipal Economic Development Act, see Neb. RS 18-2701 et seq.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER
      
54.   ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Denial of service; when prohibited
   
50.02   Utility bills; collection
   
50.03   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.04   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection
prohibited; evidence
   
50.05   Diversion of services; civil action
   
50.06   Delinquent utility charges; lien; civil action
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DENIAL OF SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas or electricity at retail in this village shall be
denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are not
collectible at law because of statutes of limitations or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings.
(Neb. RS 70-1601)
§ 50.02 UTILITY BILLS; COLLECTION.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk shall bill charges for water, sewer, electrical
and solid waste service jointly on a monthly basis. The Village Superintendent
shall read, or cause to be read, water and electric meters on or around the
fifteenth day of each month. Utility bills shall be mailed by the last day of
each month and shall be due upon receipt and payable by the fifteenth day of
the following month, except that if the fifteenth day of the month falls on a
weekend, the bill shall be due by the following Monday. Bills paid by the due
date shall be subject to a discount in an amount set by resolution of the
governing body and on file in the Clerk’s office. Bills paid after the due date
shall have a penalty charge added thereto in an amount set by resolution of the
governing body and on file in the Clerk’s office.
   (B)   In addition, the municipality may discontinue service pursuant to §
50.03. Once discontinued, service shall not be recommenced except upon payment
in full of all delinquent charges and upon further payment of a reconnection
fee in the amount set by resolution of the governing body.
   (C)   A meter deposit or an additional meter deposit may be required before
service is recommended. The municipality may also take any action authorized by
law to effect collection of the delinquent charges.
(Prior Code, § 3-402)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542, 17-925.01 and 70-1605
§ 50.03 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies or businesses of any nature.
(Neb. RS 70-1602)
   (B)   No utility which is owned and operated by the village furnishing
water, natural gas or electricity at retail in the village shall discontinue
service to any domestic subscriber for nonpayment of any past-due account
unless the utility first gives written notice by mail to any subscriber whose
service is proposed to be terminated at least seven days prior to termination.
As to any subscriber who has previously been identified as a welfare recipient
to the utility by the Department of Health and Human Services, the notice shall
be by certified mail, and notice of such proposed termination shall be given to
the Department.
(Neb. RS 70-1603)
   (C)   Prior to the discontinuance of service to any domestic subscriber by a
utility owned and operated by the village, the domestic subscriber, upon
request, shall be provided a conference with the Board of Trustees. A utility
owned and operated by the village shall not be subject to Neb. RS 70-1608
through 70-1614, but the Board of Trustees shall establish a procedure to
resolve utility bills when a conference is requested by a domestic subscriber.
The procedure shall be in writing, and a copy of such procedure shall be
furnished upon the request of any domestic subscriber. The Board of Trustees
shall notify the domestic subscriber of the time, place and date scheduled for
such conference.
(Neb. RS 70-1604)
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
(Neb. RS 70-1607)
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Neb. RS 70-1615)
§ 50.04 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to do any of the following:
      (1)   To connect any instrument, device or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or to connect
any pipe or conduit supplying gas or water, without the knowledge and consent
of any village utility supplying such products or services, in such a manner
that any portion thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which
electricity, electric current, gas or water may be consumed without passing
through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or
quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of electricity,
electric current, gas or water obtained unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect electrical, gas or water service without the knowledge
and consent of any village utility supplying such service if the service has
been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601 through 70-1615 or §
50.03; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter or by any instrument, device or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of electricity, electric current, gas or water passing through it, without the
knowledge and consent of any village utility supplying the electricity,
electric current, gas or water passing or intended to pass through the meter.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where that connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Neb. RS 28-515.02) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The village utility may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets or attempts
bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering when that act results in damages
to the utility. A village utility may bring a civil action for damages pursuant
to this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the village
utility shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering or unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under division (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)(b)
above, the utility may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on
account of the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering, including, but
not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of
the suit and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS
25-1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is
proven to exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant had access to the part of the
utility supply system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering is proven to exist and was responsible or partially
responsible for payment, either directly or indirectly, to the utility or to
any other person for utility services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist
caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply system on
the premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering was proven
to exist.
(Neb. RS 25-21,277)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 DELINQUENT UTILITY CHARGES; LIEN; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   All water rates, taxes or rent assessed by the Board of Trustees shall
be a lien upon the premises or real estate upon or for which the same is used
or supplied; and such taxes, rents or rates shall be paid and collected and
such lien enforced in such manner as the Board of Trustees shall by ordinance
direct and provide.
(Neb. RS 17-538)
   (B)   All sewer charges established by the Board of Trustees shall be a lien
upon the premises or real estate for which such water is used or supplied. Such
lien shall be enforced in such manner as the Board of Trustees provides by
ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-925.01)
   (C)   If the service charge established by the Board of Trustees for the use
of any village sewage disposal plant and sewerage system is not paid when due,
such sum may be recovered by the village in a civil action, or it may be
certified to the County Assessor and assessed against the premises served, and
collected or returned in the same manner as other village taxes are certified,
assessed, collected and returned.
(Neb. RS 18-503)
   (D)   Unless the Board of Trustees otherwise provides, on June 1 of each
year, the Village Clerk shall report to the Board a list of all unpaid accounts
due for utilities service together with a description of the premises served.
If the Board approves the report, the Clerk shall certify the report to the
County Clerk, to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or refuses to comply with the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length or incorporated by
reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 3-1001)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
Municipal Solid Waste Facilities and Sites
   
51.01   Established
   
51.02   Operation and funding
Solid Waste Disposal
   
51.15   Definitions
   
51.16   Collection and disposal
   
51.17   Mandatory service; billing
   
51.18   Liability for charges; proof of proper disposal
   
51.19   Commingling prohibited
   
51.20   Licensed facilities
   
51.21   Disposal of hazardous waste or waste requiring special handling
   
51.22   Additional regulations
   
51.23   Nuisance; abatement
   
51.24   Fees for construction and demolition waste
   
51.25   Solid waste rates
**** MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE FACILITIES AND SITES ****
§ 51.01 ESTABLISHED.
   The governing body shall, from time to time, by resolution or order,
designate, regulate and control any municipal solid waste facilities and sites.
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump materials at any municipal solid
waste facilities and sites unless and until he or she has complied with all
rules and regulations and paid any fee which may be prescribed by the governing
body. It shall be unlawful for any person to dump any waste materials and
garbage of any nature at any other place within the corporate limits or within
the jurisdiction of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-801) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2001 through 13-2043 and 19-2101 through
19-2106
§ 51.02 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the solid waste facilities and
sites through the Village Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose
of defraying the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the solid
waste facilities and sites may each year levy a tax, not to exceed the maximum
limit prescribed by state law, on the taxable value of all taxable property
within the corporate limits. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the
Solid Waste Fund and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer.
   (B)   The Village Superintendent shall have the direct management and
control of the solid waste facilities and sites and shall faithfully carry out
the duties of his or her position. It shall be the duty of the Village
Superintendent to comply with applicable state law and with the rules and
regulations prescribed by the Nebraska Department of Water, Energy and
Environment (DWEE) for the use and operation of the solid waste facilities and
sites. The Village Superintendent shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the solid waste
facilities and sites subject to the supervision and review of the governing
body.
   (C)   The governing body shall provide by ordinance for the management and
operation of the solid waste facilities and sites and shall set the rates to be
charged for services rendered by resolution and file the same in the office of
the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-802)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2001 through 13-2043 and 19-2101 through
19-2106
**** SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL ****
§ 51.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes, including waste accumulation of animal, fruit
or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attend the preparation,
use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste designated or defined as a hazardous waste by 128
NAC, Rules and Regulations Governing Hazardous Waste Management in the state,
which for purposes of general definition is a solid waste which, because of
quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics
may:
      (1)   Cause, or significantly contribute to, an increase in mortality or
an increase in serious, irreversible or incapacitating reversible, illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   HOME-BASED BUSINESS. A business, profession, service or trade conducted for
gain or support whereby the central office is located within a residential
building in which the owner owns, rents, leases or occupies.
   REFUSE. Putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
and include garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue,
street cleanings, industrial wastes and other such wastes.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of both
combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans,
wood, glass, bedding, crockery or litter of any kind that will be a detriment
to the public health and safety.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse or sludge from a waste treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility and other
discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial and mining operations, and from
community activities.
   YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
(Prior Code, § 4-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2003 through 13-2016.01
§ 51.16 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The municipality shall provide or contract for the collection and
disposal of nonhazardous solid waste from residential, commercial,
institutional and governmental premises within its solid waste jurisdiction
area. Such wastes shall be collected on a regularly scheduled basis and shall
be disposed of only in a licensed landfill facility approved by the governing
body and which meets all state and federal criteria.
   (B)   The governing body shall approve and is authorized to contract with
any such licensed landfill facility for these purposes.
(Prior Code, § 4-202)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020
§ 51.17 MANDATORY SERVICE; BILLING.
   (A)   Every residential, commercial, institutional and governmental building
or premises in municipal solid waste jurisdiction area shall be served by the
solid waste collection and disposal service system offered by the municipality
and shall be subject to the assessment and payment of charges for such service
as set forth in §
51.25. The municipality may also agree to provide such service to persons who
do not live within the corporate limits of the municipality but who are served
by municipal utilities or who are within such close distance to the corporate
limits of the municipality as to make such service economical and practical for
the municipality and its contracted hauler or haulers.
   (B)   Charges for solid waste disposal services shall be billed and
collected in the same manner as utility bills pursuant to §
50.02.
(Prior Code, § 4-203) (Ord. 390, passed 3-9-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2027
§ 51.18 LIABILITY FOR CHARGES; PROOF OF PROPER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The governing body has separately established charges to be paid to it
by each person whose premises are served by the municipal solid waste
collection system. For purposes of such charges, a person’s premises are deemed
to be served by the municipal solid waste collection system and the owner and
occupant of the premises shall be deemed served and therefore liable for the
charges unless the owner or occupant proves to the governing body that:
      (1)   The premises are unoccupied; or
      (2)   The solid waste generated at the premises during the applicable
billing period was lawfully collected and hauled to a permitted facility or was
otherwise disposed of in conformance with all applicable laws, regulations and
ordinances.
   (B)   Proof of proper disposal during the applicable billing period may be
provided by means of any of the following:
      (1)   A billing receipt or other statement from a duly permitted solid
waste hauling service for collection of solid waste at the premises during the
applicable billing period;
      (2)   A billing receipt or register tab from a duly permitted transfer
station or disposal facility or landfill for solid waste received during the
applicable billing period; or
      (3)   Such other documentation of proper disposal as may be acceptable to
the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 4-204)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020
§ 51.19 COMMINGLING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall commingle or place for collection any refuse, trash or
garbage generated or created by a non-customer of the municipality’s trash
collection service with refuse, garbage and trash generated and created by
customers of the municipality’s trash collection service.
(Prior Code, § 4-205) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.20 LICENSED FACILITIES.
   All nonhazardous solid waste collected within the municipality shall be
disposed of only in a licensed solid waste facility. Any hazardous waste shall
be disposed of only in the manner provided by state or federal laws and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4-206)
§ 51.21 DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS WASTE OR WASTE REQUIRING SPECIAL HANDLING.
   Any person, firm or corporation within the municipality who generates or
creates hazardous waste or waste requiring special handling or disposal shall
be responsible for the transportation and disposal of the same. All such
handling and disposal shall in all respects comply with state and federal laws
and regulations pertaining to the specific type of waste generated.
(Prior Code, § 4-207)
§ 51.22 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The governing body may, from time to time, make and adopt by ordinance such
additional rules and regulations governing the use, operation and control of
the solid waste collection and disposal system and the regulation of solid
waste with the municipal solid waste jurisdiction area as it may deem necessary
to promote the efficient operation and management of the system and to protect
the environment and the health, safety and welfare of all persons within the
municipal solid waste jurisdiction area.
(Prior Code, § 4-208)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020, 13-2023 and 13-2026
§ 51.23 NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful, and declared to be a nuisance, for any person to keep
in, on or about any dwelling, building or premises, or any other place within
the municipal solid waste jurisdiction, decayed vegetable or animal substance,
garbage or refuse matter of any kind that may be injurious to the public health
or offensive to the residents of the municipality unless the same is kept in
receptacles as nearly airtight as may be practical. It shall be unlawful, and
declared to be a nuisance, to throw or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks or
other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, garbage, refuse
or rubbish of any kind. No person shall permit garbage, refuse or rubbish to
collect and all persons shall remove the same within 24 hours after being
notified to do so by the designated village official who shall represent the
Board of Health. Any person having garbage, refuse or rubbish that is subject
to decay or fermentation within a short period of time shall be required to
place the same in a standard garbage can with a tight cover, or a durable
plastic container that is securely tied at its opening.
(Prior Code, § 4-209) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 51.24 FEES FOR CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE.
   (A)   Anyone disposing of construction and demolition waste at the
construction demolition site will be charged $0.03 per pound ($60 per ton)
tipping fee. The tipping fee for complete removal of a building or buildings
will be $0.025 per pound ($50 per ton).
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE
shall mean waste which results from land clearing, the demolition of buildings,
roads or other structures, including, but not limited to, fill materials, wood
(including painted and treated wood), land clearing debris other than yard
waste, wall coverings (including wall paper, paneling and tile), drywall,
plaster, non-asbestos insulation, roofing shingles and other roof coverings,
plumbing fixtures, glass, plastic, carpeting, electrical wiring, pipe and
metals. Such waste shall also include the above listed types of waste that
result from construction projects. CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE shall not
include friable asbestos waste, special waste, liquid waste, hazardous waste
and waste that contains polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB), putrescible waste,
household waste, industrial solid waste, corrugated cardboard, appliances,
tires, drums and fuel tanks. (See 132 NAC, Integrated Solid Waste Management
Regulations.)
   (C)   If the load contains anything that is not allowed at the construction
demolition site, it must be separated from the load or the load will not be
accepted.
   (D)   Tipping fee for commingling solid waste and construction and
demolition waste is $0.035 per pound. There will be a $5 minimum charge per
load.
   (E)   The village operator at the facility has the authority to reject any
load considered to be detrimental to the best interests of the village.
(Ord. 495, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 51.25 SOLID WASTE RATES.
   (A)   Utility customers of the village will be charged a monthly customer
charge for trash collection as follows.
      (1)   Residential. There shall be a charge of $17.50 per month for
residential customers. The residential rate includes the use of the roll-off
container (no tires, construction rubble or appliances).
      (2)   Commercial. The village shall take the multiplier times the
residential rate to determine commercial trash collection rates. The following
table shall be used for commercial multipliers.
Commercial Establishments Multiplier
Commercial Establishments Multiplier
Apartment building        1.0/apartment
Convenience store         3.0
Fertilizer plant          2.0
Grocery store             3.0
Hardware store            2.0
Low income housing        8.0
Other                     1.0
Repair shops              2.0
Restaurant/bar            3.0
Restaurant/café          2.0
School                    10.0
Service station           2.0
 
   (B)   Any residential customer that has a private trash dumpster for their
sole use will be billed a minimum of $35 per month.
   (C)   The tipping fee for solid waste is $0.035 per pound.
   (D)   (1)   The fee for appliances with freon is $30.
      (2)   The fee for appliances without freon is $10.
   (E)   (1)   Trash collection will not be charged for vacant properties. For
purposes of this section, a VACANT PROPERTY means a rental property, whether
residential or commercial, which is temporarily unoccupied. Non-rental houses
that are unoccupied and in the process of being sold will not be charged a
monthly trash collection fee during the period that they are not occupied.
      (2)   Utility customers who have their water and sewer utilities
voluntarily disconnected while the property is vacant will not be charged for
trash collection during such time as the water and sewer utilities are not
connected to the property.
(Ord. 494, passed 11-10-2025)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Operation and funding
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Consumer’s application
   
52.04   Service to nonresidents
   
52.05   Water contract
   
52.06   Installation expense
   
52.07   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.08   Fees and collections
   
52.09   Customer charge
   
52.10   Single premises
   
52.11   Restricted use
   
52.12   Fire hydrants
   
52.13   Pollution
   
52.14   Mandatory hook-up
   
52.15   Water service contracts
   
52.16   Inspection
   
52.17   Destruction of property
   
52.18   Fluoride prohibited
   
52.19   Water wells
   
52.20   Backflow prevention devices required; customer installation,
maintenance and testing
Backflow/Backsiphonage Prevention
   
52.35   Statement of policy
   
52.36   Definitions
   
52.37   Cross-connections prohibited
   
52.38   Survey and investigations
   
52.39   Where protection is required
   
52.40   Type of protection required
   
52.41   Backflow prevention devices
   
52.42   Installation
   
52.43   Testing
   
52.44   Authorized representative; authority
   
52.45   Appeals
   
52.46   Violations
   
52.47   Liability claims
 
   
52.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 52.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through
the Village Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the Municipal Water
Department, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed
by state law, on the taxable valuation of all the taxable property within the
corporate limits. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Water Fund and
shall remain in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Village
Superintendent shall have the direct management and control of the Municipal
Water Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her
office. The Village Superintendent shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Water Department
subject to the supervision and review of the governing body. The governing body
shall set the rates to be charged for services rendered by ordinance and shall
file a copy of the rates in the office of the Municipal Clerk for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534 and 19-1305
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 52.03 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Municipal Clerk. The Municipal Clerk may require any applicant
to make a service deposit in such amount as has been set by the governing body
and placed on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk. Water may not be
supplied to any house or private service pipe except upon the order of the
Municipal Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-103)
§ 52.04 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   The Water Department shall not supply water service to any person outside
the corporate limits without special permission from the governing body;
provided, that the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe
shall be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate
the municipality to provide water service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-104)
§ 52.05 WATER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to
law, the governing body may see fit to do so.
   (B)   The rules, regulations and water rates hereinafter named in this
chapter shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for
water service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
consumer now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of
application on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of water
service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of water service to
said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer and the
municipality, to which said contract both parties are bound.
   (C)   If the consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract
or any reasonable rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter
adopt, the Village Superintendent or his or her agent, may cut off or
disconnect the water service from the building or premises or place of such
violation. No further connection for water service to said building, premises
or place shall again be made except by order of said Superintendent or his or
her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-105)
§ 52.06 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The municipality shall provide water service to the lot line upon the
payment of the appropriate tap fee and the cost of materials and labor
associated with the installation of the supply line, including any street cuts,
street repairs and sidewalk repairs. The amount of the tap fee shall be set by
the governing body and shall be on file at the Clerk’s office. The cost of the
installation of the stop box and meter shall be paid by the village. The
consumer shall pay the expense of furnishing and installing pipe, trenching and
the necessary labor to bring water service from the lot line to the place of
disbursement.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.07 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all
supply pipe between the commercial main and the stop box. The customer, at his
or her own expense, shall replace and keep in repair all service pipe from the
stop box to the place of disbursement. When leaks occur in service pipes, the
Village Superintendent shall shut off water service until the leak is repaired
at the expense of the customer to the satisfaction of the Village
Superintendent.
   (B)   All water meters shall be kept in repair by the municipality at the
expense of the municipality. When meters are worn out, they shall be replaced
and reset by the municipality at the expense of the municipality; provided,
that if the customer permits or allows a water meter to be damaged, injured or
destroyed through his or her own recklessness, carelessness or neglect so that
the meter must be repaired or replaced, the Village Superintendent shall bill
and collect from the customer the cost of such meter repair or replacement in
the same manner as water rent is collected.
   (C)   All meters shall be tested at the customer’s request at the expense of
the customer any reasonable number of times; provided, that if the test shows
the water meter to be running 2% or more fast, the expense of such test shall
be borne by the municipality. The municipality reserves the right to test any
water service meter at any time, and if said meter is found to be beyond
repair, the municipality shall always have the right to place a new meter on
the customer’s water service fixtures at municipal expense. If a consumer’s
meter fails to register properly, the customer shall be charged for water
during the time the meter is out of repair on the basis of the monthly
consumption during the same month of the preceding year; provided, that if no
such basis for comparison exists, the customer shall be charged such amount as
may be reasonably fixed by the Village Superintendent.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter, or
by any means or device to divert water from the service pipe so that the same
shall not pass through said meter or, while passing through said meter, to
cause the same to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 3-107) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.08 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All
such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the Municipal
Clerk. No flat rates for water service shall be quoted or allowed by the
governing body. No water service shall be furnished to any customer at a rate
that is different from other customers of the same class or type. Persons,
firms or corporations desiring to use water temporarily shall pay such rates as
the Village Superintendent, with the approval of the governing body, shall set.
Without respect to schedule of rates for other customers, the governing body
may enter into special contracts with large consumers of water, but never at a
rate less than the cost of production and the contract shall be made on the
basis of water consumed. A meter shall always be attached to the water service
of such contract consumer and read monthly as in the case of other classes of
water consumers.
   (B)   Whenever water service is supplied to more than one customer through
the same supply pipe, each customer shall pay the customer charge each month.
In the event that two or more customers are supplied through the same meter,
the owner of the premises shall pay for all water consumed thereon plus
separate customer charges. One bill only shall be computed for each meter.
(Prior Code, § 3-108) (Ord. 374, passed 6-4-2007; Ord. 395, passed 5-10-2010;
Ord. 459, passed 10-14-2019; Ord. 475, passed 6-12-2023; Ord. 485, passed 2-10-
2025)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-540
§ 52.09 CUSTOMER CHARGE.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the customer charge provided by
ordinance unless and until the consumer directs the Village Superintendent to
shut off the water at the stop box, in which case the consumer shall not be
liable thereafter for water rental until the water is turned on again.
(Prior Code, § 3-109)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.10 SINGLE PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for a consumer to provide water to another premises. It
shall further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by
means of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so
that the water will not pass through the meter or while passing through said
meter to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 3-110) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.11 RESTRICTED USE.
   The governing body or the Village Superintendent may order a reduction in
the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The municipality shall
not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the municipality
has no control.
(Prior Code, § 3-111)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.12 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Rural Fire District under the orders of the designated village official,
members of the Water Department or persons with written permission from the
governing body to open or attempt to open any of the hydrants and draw water
from the same, or in any manner to interfere with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-112) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.13 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-113) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-536
§ 52.14 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the governing body, to hook up with the municipal water system.
(Prior Code, § 3-114)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-539
§ 52.15 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Village Superintendent who shall cause the water
service to be shut off at said premises. If the consumer should fail to give
such notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used on said premises
until the Village Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-115)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.16 INSPECTION.
   The Village Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall have
free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and building
to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 3-116)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.17 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any such property without the written permission of the Village
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-118) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18 FLUORIDE PROHIBITED.
   No fluoride shall be added to the water supply of the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-132) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.19 WATER WELLS.
   (A)   The intent of this section is to establish control by the village over
the location of future potential sources of contamination within the proximity
of the village’s drinking water system, so as to prevent or minimize any hazard
to the safety of the village’s drinking water.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, WATER WELL shall mean any excavation
that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven, dug, jetted or otherwise
constructed for the purpose of exploring for groundwater, monitoring
groundwater, utilizing the geothermal properties of the ground or extracting
water from or injecting water into the underground water reservoir. WATER WELL
shall not include any excavation made for obtaining or prospecting for oil,
natural gas, minerals or products mined or quarried or inserting media to
repressure oil or natural gas bearing formations.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to place, maintain, construct or replace any of
the following structures or conduct any of the following activities within the
distance specified below from an existing municipal water well.
Category Distance
Category                               Distance
Absorption or disposal field for waste 500 feet
Cesspool                               500 feet
Chemical storage                       500 feet
Dumping ground                         500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff              500 feet
Livestock corral                       500 feet
Petroleum storage                      500 feet
Pit toilet                             500 feet
Sanitary landfill                      500 feet
Septic tank                            500 feet
Sewage lagoon                          1,000 feet
Sewage treatment plant                 500 feet
Sewage wet well                        500 feet
Water well                             1,000 feet
Notes to Table:
These footages are taken from 179 NAC Chapter 2 and will change automatically
if said footages are revised.
 
   (D)   The governing body may consider allowing placement of water wells, as
defined by state regulations governing public water supply systems (179 NAC
Chapter 2) and state regulations governing water well construction, pump
installation and water well abandonment standards (178 NAC Chapter 12) as
amended from time to time, closer to a municipal water well than the
limitations set forth in division (C) above. Closer placement shall be allowed
only under the following conditions.
      (1)   (a)   An application must first be filed with the village showing
the type of water well to be installed, the materials used, the operation of
the proposed unit and the person responsible for the actual installation of the
water well. Preference, for approval, will be given to installations that do
not disturb any water bearing strata.
         (b)   The village shall refer the application to its engineer for
evaluation and report. The estimated cost of the engineer’s fees must be paid
at the time of filing the application. Any additional costs, which are
reasonably incurred by the engineer in making his or her examination and
report, shall be paid by the applicant, in addition to any previously paid
estimated costs.
      (2)   (a)   The governing body shall consider the engineer’s report and
any additional information submitted by the applicant. In reaching its decision
on whether to allow the placement of a water well, as above defined, the
governing body must act to prevent all sources of possible or likely water
contamination.
         (b)   If the governing body approves the installation, it shall submit
the application, together with the engineer’s report, to the State Department
of Health for final approval or denial.
         (c)   No installation shall be made without the approval of both the
governing body and the State Department of Health.
   (E)   Water wells in existence and use as of the effective date of this
section shall continue to be permitted unless such continued existence or use
presents a hazard to the quality or quantity of the drinking water available
for public use to the village’s drinking water. The owner of any water well
shall have the burden of establishing the existence and use of such well at the
time of the effective date of this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-133) (Ord. 344, passed 8-13-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.20 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED; CUSTOMER INSTALLATION,
MAINTENANCE AND TESTING.
   (A)   A cross-connection control officer shall be appointed by the Village
Board of Trustees to oversee the enforcement of this section. This person shall
be responsible for reviewing the surveys submitted by the customers of the
Municipal Water Department and determining if a backflow prevention device is
required to comply with Title 179, NAC 2 “Regulations Governing Public Water
Supply Systems.”
   (B)   All customers of the Municipal Water Department shall be required to
report to the cross-connection control officer any potential cross-connections
which may be on their premises. This report shall be made at least every five
years.
   (C)   (1)   A customer of the Municipal Water Department may be required by
the cross-connection control officer to install and maintain a properly located
backflow prevention device at the customer’s expense appropriate to the
potential hazard as set forth in Title 179 NAC 2 “Regulations Governing Public
Water Supply Systems” and approved by the cross-connection control officer.
      (2)   The customer shall make application to the cross-connection control
officer to install a required backflow prevention device on a form provided by
the municipality. The application shall contain at a minimum the name and
address of the applicant, the type of backflow prevention device to be
installed, including make and model number, and the location of the proposed
installation.
      (3)   The cross-connection control officer shall approve or disapprove
the application based on whether such installation will protect the municipal
water distribution system from potential backflow and backsiphonage hazards.
      (4)   When a testable backflow prevention device shall be required, the
customer shall also certify to the municipality at least one time annually that
the backflow prevention device has been tested by a state health and human
services system Grade VI Certified Water Operator. Such certification shall be
made on a form available at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
      (5)   Any decision of the cross-connection control officer may be
appealed to the Village Board of Trustees, whose decision shall be final.
(Ord. 415, passed 11-19-2012)
**** BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION ****
§ 52.35 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the village water
system from contamination or pollution by containing within the consumer’s
internal distribution system or private water system contaminants or pollutants
which could backflow through the service connection into the public potable
water supply system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination, containment, isolation or control of
existing cross-connections, actual or potential, between the public or
consumer’s potable water systems and nonpotable water systems, plumbing
fixtures and industrial process systems; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. This subchapter shall apply to all premises served by the
public potable water system of the village.
   (C)   Policy.
      (1)   This subchapter will be reasonably interpreted. It is the village’s
intent to recognize the varying degrees of hazard and to apply the principle
that the degree of protection shall be commensurate with the degree of hazard.
      (2)   The Municipal Water Department shall be primarily responsible for
protection of the public potable water distribution system from contamination
or pollution due to backflow or contaminants or pollutants through the water
service connection. The cooperation of all consumers is required to implement
and maintain the program to control cross-connections. The consumer is
responsible for preventing contamination of the water system within consumer’s
own premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-119)
§ 52.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the overflow level rim of the
receptacle.
   APPROVED TESTER. A person qualified to make inspections; to test and repair
backflow prevention/cross-connection control devices; and who is approved by
the village.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. Any person designated by the village to
administer this subchapter.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water source system, other than the public water
supply, that may be available in the building or premises.
   BACKFLOW. The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any
foreign liquids, gases or substances into the distribution system of a public
water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system provided backflow
preventers have been tested and approved by a reputable testing laboratory.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. The flowing back of water, or other foreign liquids, gases or
substances into the water distribution system due to negative pressure in the
piping of the water distribution system.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONTAINMENT. Protection of the public water supply by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on the main service line to a
facility, or as an installation within equipment handling potentially hazardous
materials.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage, process
fluids or other wastes to a degree which could create the actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical link, between a potable water supply and any
other substance, fluid or source, which makes possible contamination of the
potable water supply due to the reversal of flow of the water in the piping or
distribution system.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. An evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
      (1)   HAZARD, HEALTH. Any condition, device or practice in the water
supply system and its operation which could create or may create a danger to
the health and well-being of the water consumer.
      (2)   HAZARD, PLUMBING. A plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer’s
potable water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker,
air gap separation or backflow prevention device.
      (3)   HAZARD, POLLUTIONAL. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the consumer’s potable water system but
which would constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable or could
cause damage to the system or its appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to
health.
      (4)   HAZARD, SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to
the physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system, or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   ISOLATION. Protection of a facility service line by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on an individual fixture,
appurtenance or system.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness of the water to a degree which does not create
an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and unreasonably
affect such waters for domestic use.
   PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly or privately owned water system
supplying water to the general public which is satisfactory for drinking,
culinary and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the State
Department of Health and Human Services.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the SERVICE
CONNECTION means the downstream end of the meter.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The Municipal Water Department of the Village of Arnold.
(Prior Code, § 3-120)
§ 52.37 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross-connections to the public water supply
system may exist unless such actual or potential cross-connections are abated
or controlled to the satisfaction of the village or its authorized
representative.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public water supply system.
   (C)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises in which the plumbing system, facilities and fixtures have not been
constructed and installed using acceptable plumbing practices considered by the
Municipal Water Department as necessary for the protection of health and
safety.
   (D)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within such premises, unless such booster pump is equipped with a low pressure
cut-off designed to shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 pounds per square inch gauge
or less.
(Prior Code, § 3-121) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.38 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
village or its authorized representative, for the conduction of surveys and
investigations of water use practices within the consumer’s premises to
determine whether there are actual or potential cross-connections in the
consumer’s water system.
   (B)   On request by the village or its authorized representative, the
consumer shall furnish requested information on water use practices within his
or her premises and in the consumer’s water system.
   (C)   On request by the village or its authorized representative, the
consumer shall conduct periodic surveys of water use practices on the premises
of the consumer’s water system to determine whether there are actual or
potential cross-connections. The consumer shall provide the survey results to
the village or its authorized representative no less often than once every five
years.
(Prior Code, § 3-122)
§ 52.39 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed between the
service connection and the point of potential backflow into a consumer’s water
supply system when in the judgment of the village or authorized representative
a health, plumbing, pollution or system hazard exists.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed at the service connection or within any
premises where, in the judgment of the Municipal Water Department, the nature
and extent of activities on the premises or the materials used in connection
with the activities, or materials stored on the premises, would present an
immediate and dangerous hazard to health should a cross-connection occur, even
though such cross-connection may not exist at the time the backflow prevention
device is required to be installed. This includes, but is not limited to, the
following situations:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of
the auxiliary supply is acceptable to the village or its authorized
representative and the State Department of Health;
      (2)   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
ascertain whether or not cross-connections exist;
      (3)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure the cross-connections do not exist;
      (4)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established;
      (5)   Premises which, due to the nature of the enterprise therein, are
subject to recurring modification or expansion;
      (6)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply system, or where a cross-connection
could reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of
process waters and cooling waters; and
      (7)   Premises where toxic or hazardous materials are handled.
   (C)   The following types of facilities fall into one or more of the
categories or premises where an approved air gap separation or reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device may be required by the village or its
authorized representative or the State Department of Health and Human Services
to protect the public water supply and must be installed at these facilities
unless all hazardous or potentially hazardous conditions have been eliminated
or corrected by other methods to the satisfaction of the village or its
authorized representative and the State Department of Health and Human
Services:
      (1)   Agricultural chemical facilities;
      (2)   Auxiliary water systems, wells;
      (3)   Premises having water recirculating system as used for boilers or
cooling systems;
      (4)   Bulk water loading facilities;
      (5)   Car washers, automobile servicing facilities;
      (6)   Chill water systems;
      (7)   Feedlots;
      (8)   Fire protection systems;
      (9)   Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites;
      (10)   Laundries and dry cleaning;
      (11)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (12)   Beauty salons;
      (13)   Schools;
      (14)   Sewage pumping stations; and
      (15)   Other commercial or industrial facilities which may constitute
potential cross-connection.
(Prior Code, § 3-123)
§ 52.40 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   The type of protection required by this subchapter shall depend on the
degree of hazard which exists, as follows.
   (A)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the potable
water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a severe
health hazard.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with a substance that could cause a
health hazard.
   (C)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device or an approved double check valve assembly
shall be installed where the public potable water system may be polluted with
substances that could cause a pollutional hazard not dangerous to health.
(Prior Code, § 3-124)
§ 52.41 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Any backflow prevention device required by this subchapter shall be of a
model or construction approved by the village or its authorized representative
and the State Department of Health and Human Services.
   (A)   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at twice the diameter of
the supply pipe, measured vertically above the top rim of the vessel, but in no
case less than one inch.
   (B)   Double check valve assemblies or reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention devices shall appear on the current list of approved backflow
prevention devices established by the State Department of Health, unless the
device was installed at the time this subchapter were passed and complies with
required inspection and maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 3-125)
§ 52.42 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter shall be
installed at a location in a manner approved by the village or its authorized
agent. All devices shall be installed at the expense of the consumer.
   (B)   Backflow prevention devices installed at the service connection shall
be located on the consumer’s side of the water meter (if one is installed) or
the corporation stop, as close to the meter or corporation stop as it
reasonably practical, and prior to any other connection.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices shall be conveniently accessible for
maintenance and testing, protected from freezing, and where no part of the
device will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid. All devices shall
be installed according to manufacturer’s recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 3-126)
§ 52.43 TESTING.
   Consumers shall certify to the municipality at least one time annually that
the backflow prevention device has been tested by a State Department of Health
and Human Services Grade VI Certified Water Operator if the device is equipped
with a test port. Any maintenance or repairs that are required must be
performed by a State Department of Health and Human Services Grade VI Certified
Water Operator. Actual testing shall be at the expense of the consumer and also
any required maintenance or repairs shall be at the expense of the consumer and
subject to the approval of the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-127)
§ 52.44 AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE; AUTHORITY.
   The authorized representative shall have the authority to issue any order
consistent with the provisions of this subchapter in order to protect the
public health and safety. Any order of the authorized representative shall be
in writing and shall clearly state the nature of the order, compliance
requirements, and set a reasonable date by which compliance must be met. All
orders will be mailed to the consumer by first class mail, return receipts
requested. If the village or its authorized representative determines at any
time that a serious threat to the public health exists, the water service may
be terminated immediately.
(Prior Code, § 3-128)
§ 52.45 APPEALS.
   In the event that it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this
subchapter has been wrongfully interpreted by the authorized representative;
that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the authorized
representative is too short; or that conditions peculiar to a particular
premises make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements
prescribed by this subchapter, the owner may file a written notice of appeal
with the Municipal Clerk within ten days after the decision or order the
authorized representative has been made. The governing body shall hear all
appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the
decision or order of the authorized representative. Such a decision shall be
final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved party may have at law or
equity.
(Prior Code, § 3-129)
§ 52.46 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The village or its authorized representative shall deny or discontinue
the water service to any premises or any consumer wherein any backflow
prevention device required by this subchapter is not installed, tested and
maintained in a manner acceptable to the village or its authorized
representative, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been
removed or bypassed, or if any unprotected cross-connection exists.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer is in compliance with this subchapter to the satisfaction of the
village or its authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 3-130)
§ 52.47 LIABILITY CLAIMS.
   The authorized representative shall be relieved from personal liability. The
village shall hold harmless the authorized representative when acting in good
faith and without malice, from all personal liability for any damage that may
occur to any person or property as a result of any act required or authorized
by this subchapter, or by reason of any act or omission of the authorized
representative in the discharge of his or her duties hereunder. Any suit
brought carrying out this subchapter shall be defended by the village, or the
village’s insurance carrier, if any, through final determination of such
proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 3-131)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found violating any provision of §
52.19 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500. The continuation of a
violation of §
52.19 shall be deemed an additional crime for every 24 hours of such continued
violation. In addition, the village may obtain injunctive relief, and sue for
damages and remediation, and pursue any other remedy available to it under the
laws of the state or other authority having jurisdiction over such matters.
   (C)   Any customer refusing to report on possible cross-connections on his
or her premises, refusing to install the necessary backflow prevention device,
or failing to have a testable backflow prevention device tested at least
annually shall be in violation of §
52.20 and may have his, her or their water service discontinued. Any customer
who has had his, her or their service discontinued for violation of §
52.20 shall be subject to a $50 reconnect fee to have the service reinstated
after supplying proof that the potential cross-connection has been eliminated
or properly protected.
(Prior Code, § 3-133) (Ord. 344, passed 8-13-2001; Ord. 415, passed 11-19-2012)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Operation and funding
   
53.002   Definitions
   
53.003   Application for permit
   
53.004   Sewer contract
   
53.005   Service contracts
   
53.006   Rate setting
   
53.007   Surcharges
   
53.008   User charge review
   
53.009   Classification of customers
   
53.010   Unlawful deposit of wastes
   
53.011   Unlawful discharge of untreated sewage
   
53.012   Cesspools, privies and septic tanks prohibited
   
53.013   Mandatory hook-up
Private Sewage Disposal
   
53.025   When applicable
   
53.026   Permit required
   
53.027   Specifications
   
53.028   Maintenance
   
53.029   Additional requirements
Building Sewer Installation
   
53.040   Permit required
   
53.041   Permit classifications; applications; fees
   
53.042   Expense
   
53.043   Installation expense
   
53.044   Repairs and replacement
   
53.045   Single premises
   
53.046   Use of existing sewers
   
53.047   Construction codes
   
53.048   Unlawful connection
   
53.049   Inspections
   
53.050   Excavations
   
53.051   Installation procedures; inspection
Wastewaters
   
53.065   Flammable, toxic, corrosive and obstructive substances; preliminary
treatment
   
53.066   Specific prohibitions as determined by Superintendent
   
53.067   Rejection, pretreatment, control of discharge rate or use fee
surcharge
   
53.068   Grease, oil and sand interceptors; when required
   
53.069   Preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities; maintenance by
owner
   
53.070   Control manhole and sampling stations; when required; installation and
maintenance
   
53.071   Control manholes and sample stations; method
   
53.072   Wastewater facilities; destruction of property
   
53.073   Special exceptions permitted; use fee surcharge
Administration and Enforcement
   
53.085   Inspections; injury liability; entry on easements
   
53.086   Municipal Sewer Department; powers
 
   
53.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 53.001 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through
the Village Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) of the municipal
sewer system may establish a user charge system based on actual use and revise
the charges, if necessary, to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain the proportional distribution of operation, maintenance
and replacement (OM&R) costs among users and user classes;
      (2)   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of OM&R; and
      (3)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of OM&R attributable to that class for the next year and adjust the rates
accordingly.
   (B)   The revenue from said user charge system based on actual use shall be
known as the Sewer Maintenance Fund. The Village Superintendent shall have the
direct management and control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority
to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Department subject to the supervision and review of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 53.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). Includes the quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste or other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwaters,
surface waters and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with such
groundwaters, surface waters and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries stormwater and surface
waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than
unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Village Superintendent or his or her authorized deputy,
agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and are removable by laboratory
filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
§ 53.003 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the Municipal Clerk. The Clerk may require any
applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as he or she deems necessary
subject to the review of the governing body. Sewer service may not be supplied
to any house or building except upon the written order of the Clerk. The Sewer
Department shall not supply sewer service to any person outside the corporate
limits without special permission from the governing body; provided, that the
entire cost of pipe and other installation charges shall be paid by such
consumers. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to
provide sewer service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-203)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-503
§ 53.004 SEWER CONTRACT.
   The municipality through the Municipal Sewer Department shall furnish sewer
services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or
alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The
municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are
situated outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when,
according to law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in this chapter shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for sewer service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the application on
the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers
thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the municipality
to which said contract both parties are bound. If the customer shall violate
any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations
that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the Village Superintendent or his
or her agent, may cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the building or
premises of such violation. No further connection for sewer service to said
building or premises shall again be made save or except by order of the Village
Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-204) Penalty, see §
53.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-901, 17-902 and 18-503
§ 53.005 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Village Superintendent who shall cause the sewer
service to be shut off from said premises. If the customer should fail to give
notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time until the official
in charge of sewers is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-901, 17-902 and 18-503
§ 53.006 RATE SETTING.
   Customers of the Municipal Sewer Department shall be charged a flat rate
based on water usage for the use of sewer service. Rates shall be set by the
governing body and shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-206) (Ord. 351, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 423, passed 2-9-2015;
Ord. 460, passed 10-14-2019; Ord. 476, passed 6-12-2023; Ord. 486, passed 2-10-
2025)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-509
§ 53.007 SURCHARGES.
   The municipality shall assess a surcharge to any discharger of toxic
materials. The Village Superintendent shall determine the surcharge rate at his
or her discretion.
(Prior Code, § 3-207)
§ 53.008 USER CHARGE REVIEW.
   (A)   The municipality shall review the total annual cost of operation and
maintenance as well as each user’s wastewater contribution percentage on an
annual basis to assure equity of the service charge system.
   (B)   If a major user, such as an industry, has completed in-plant
modifications which would change the user’s wastewater contribution percentage,
the user can present at a regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body
such factual information, and the municipality shall then determine if the
user’s wastewater contribution percentage is to be changed.
   (C)   The municipality shall notify the user of its findings as soon as
possible.
(Prior Code, § 3-208)
§ 53.009 CLASSIFICATION OF CUSTOMERS.
   The governing body may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers
of the Municipal Sewer Department; provided, that such classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers.
(Prior Code, § 3-209)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.02
§ 53.010 UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
municipality, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the municipality, any
human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 3-210) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.011 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
municipality, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the municipality, any
sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-211) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.012 CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 3-212) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.013 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human employment,
recreation or other purposes, situated within the municipality and abutting on
any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the municipality, is
hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days after the date
of official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within 100
feet (30.5 meters) of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 3-213) Penalty, see §
53.999
**** PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL ****
§ 53.025 WHEN APPLICABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
53.013, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
53.013, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 60 days in
compliance with this subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled
with suitable material.
(Prior Code, § 3-214)
§ 53.026 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required, fee. Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made by written
letter to the municipality, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $10 shall be paid to the
municipality at the time the application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 3-215)
   (B)   Permit, when effective; inspections. A permit for a private sewage
disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed
to the satisfaction of the Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-216)
§ 53.027 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Department of Health
and Human Services. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than 1,250 square feet.
   (B)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 3-217)
§ 53.028 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-218)
§ 53.029 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the health officer.
(Prior Code, § 3-219)
**** BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION ****
§ 53.040 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-220) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.041 PERMIT CLASSIFICATIONS; APPLICATIONS; FEES.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the municipality. The permit application shall
be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of
$10 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and $20 for an
industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the municipality at the time
the application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 3-221)
§ 53.042 EXPENSE.
   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
municipality from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-222)
§ 53.043 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for sewer
service, shall pay the Municipal Clerk a tap fee to compensate the municipality
for the expense of processing the application and tapping the sewer main. The
amount of the fee shall be set by the governing body and shall be on file in
the Municipal Clerk’s office.
   (B)   The Superintendent, in his or her discretion, may direct the customer
to hire a plumber to tap the main. The customer shall then be required to pay
the expense of procuring the materials required as well as the services of a
plumber and shall pay all other costs of installation.
(Prior Code, § 3-223)
§ 53.044 REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The Municipal Sewer Department may require the owner of any property
which is within the municipality and connected to the public sewers or drains
to repair or replace any connection line which serves the owner’s property and
is broken, clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property
owner’s duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those
portions upon the owner’s property and those portions upon public property or
easements up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If, within 30 days of mailing such notice, the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Village
Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such connection.
(Prior Code, § 3-224)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1748
§ 53.045 SINGLE PREMISES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-225)
§ 53.046 USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-226)
§ 53.047 CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
municipality. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the municipality, or the procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of
Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight, and
verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
(Prior Code, § 3-227)
§ 53.048 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is
approved by the Superintendent for purposes of disposal of polluted surface
drainage; provided, that if responsibility can be determined, the party
responsible for disposal of polluted surface drainage into the public sanitary
sewer shall pay a user charge equivalent to the cost of treating the polluted
drainage.
(Prior Code, § 3-228) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.049 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer.
   (B)   The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 3-229)
§ 53.050 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-230)
§ 53.051 INSTALLATION PROCEDURES; INSPECTION.
   (A)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage.
   (B)   No person shall leave an excavation made in the street, alley or
sidewalk open at any time without a barricade, and during the night, warning
lights. After the house sewer is laid, the public ways and property shall be
restored to good condition. If the excavation in the public ways and property
is left open or unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the Village
Superintendent shall have the duty to finish or correct the work, and all
expenses so incurred shall be charged to the owner, occupant or lessee of the
property.
   (C)   All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by the
Superintendent. The first inspection shall be made when connections or repairs
are complete and before the pipe is covered. The second inspection shall be
made after the dirt work is completed and the service restored. It is the
customer’s responsibility to notify the Superintendent at the time the work is
ready for each inspection.
   (D)   All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in
accordance with the rules, regulations and specifications for such installation
prescribed by the Superintendent; provided, that said rules, regulations and
specifications have been reviewed and approved by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-231) Penalty, see §
53.999
**** WASTEWATERS ****
§ 53.065 FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE AND OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES; PRELIMINARY
TREATMENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders; and/or
      (5)   Any waters or wastes having:
         (a)   A five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids;
         (c)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the municipality; or
         (d)   A chlorine requirement greater than demanded by normal sewage as
evaluated by the municipality’s consulting engineer shall be subject to the
review of the Superintendent. Where necessary in the opinion of the
Superintendent, the owner shall provide, at his or her expense, such
preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:
            1.   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million
by weight;
            2.   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by
weight;
            3.   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters
or wastes; or
            4.   Reduce the chlorine requirement to conform with normal sewage.
   (B)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent, and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
(Prior Code, § 3-232) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.066 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS DETERMINED BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters of wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 3-233) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.067 REJECTION, PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OF DISCHARGE RATE OR USE FEE
SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
53.066 and which, in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
53.073.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 3-234)
§ 53.068 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining
of these interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal
and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain
records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not
performed by owner’s personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste
disposal firms.
(Prior Code, § 3-235)
§ 53.069 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 3-236)
§ 53.070 CONTROL MANHOLE AND SAMPLING STATIONS; WHEN REQUIRED; INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent.
The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 3-237)
§ 53.071 CONTROL MANHOLES AND SAMPLE STATIONS; METHOD.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
(Prior Code, § 3-238)
§ 53.072 WASTEWATER FACILITIES; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person or persons
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 3-239) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.073 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED; USE FEE SURCHARGE.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the municipality and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the municipality for treatment, subject to payment therefor,
by the industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 3-240)
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 53.085 INSPECTIONS; INJURY LIABILITY; ENTRY ON EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Inspections generally. The Superintendent and other duly authorized
employees of the municipality bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing system in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The Superintendent or his or her representatives
shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical,
chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or
waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
(Prior Code, § 3-241)
   (B)   Inspections; injury liability. While performing the necessary work on
private properties referred to in division (A) above, the Superintendent or
duly authorized employees of the municipality shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company shall be
held harmless for injury or death to the municipal employees, and the
municipality shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property
by municipal employees and against liability claims and demands for personal
injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the
gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
53.070.
(Prior Code, § 3-242)
   (C)   Inspections; entry on easements. The Superintendent and other duly
authorized employees of the municipality bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which
the municipality holds a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not
limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and
maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said easement. All
entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the
private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 3-243)
§ 53.086 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; POWERS.
   The municipality has the legal authority to enforce its system of user
charges, industrial cost recovery charge and sewer use regulations on all
existing or future users of the system whether located inside or outside the
municipal limits.
(Prior Code, § 3-244)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
53.072, shall be served by the municipality with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided in this penalty section shall be guilty of an offense and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $500 for each
violation. Each 24-hour period in which any such violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the municipality for any expense, loss or damage occasioned
the municipality by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-245)
CHAPTER 54: ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
Section
   
54.01   Ownership
   
54.02   Service contracts; terms; nontransferable; shutoff
   
54.03   Consumer’s application
   
54.04   Installation expense
   
54.05   Rates
   
54.06   Customer charge
   
54.07   Service deposit fund
   
54.08   Fees; liability of owner
   
54.09   Restricted use
   
54.10   Building moving
   
54.11   Meter in disrepair
   
54.12   Trimming trees
   
54.13   Inspections
   
54.14   Destruction of property
   
54.15   Electrical interconnection standards adopted
   
54.16   Green energy program
§ 54.01 OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal electrical system through
the Village Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the municipal electrical
system, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
state law on the taxable value of all the taxable property within the corporate
limits. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Electrical Fund and
shall remain in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Village
Superintendent shall have the direct management and control of the municipal
electrical system and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her
office. He or she shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for
the safe and efficient management of the electrical system subject to the
supervision and review of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-301)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 through 17-904, 17-906 and 17-909
§ 54.02 SERVICE CONTRACTS; TERMS; NONTRANSFERABLE; SHUTOFF.
   (A)   Terms. The municipality, through its Electrical Department, shall
furnish electric current for light and power purposes to persons whose premises
abut on any supply wire of the distribution system and may furnish electric
current to such other persons within or without its corporate limits, as and
when, according to law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations and rates for electric service hereinafter named in this chapter
shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for electric
service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every consumer
now served by the Electrical Department. Without further formality, the making
of application on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of
electric energy by present customers and the furnishing of electric service to
said applicant or customer shall constitute a contract between applicant or
customer and the municipality, to which both parties are bound. If customer
should violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules
and regulations that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the Village
Superintendent, or his or her agent, shall cut off or disconnect the electric
service from the building or place of such violation, and no further connection
of electric service for such building or place shall again be made save or
except by order of the Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-302)
   (B)   Nontransferable; shutoff. Contracts for electrical service are not
transferable. Any person wishing to change from one location to another shall
make a new application and sign a new contract. If any consumer shall sell,
dispose or remove from the premises where service is furnished in his or her
name, or if said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or she
shall at once inform the Village Superintendent who shall cause the electrical
service to be shut off from said premises. If the consumer should fail to give
such notice, he or she shall be charged for all electricity used on said
premises until the Village Superintendent is otherwise advised of such
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-304)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404
§ 54.03 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring electrical service must make application
therefor to the Municipal Clerk. Any applicant may be required to make a
service deposit in such amount as has been set by the governing body and on
file at the office of the Municipal Clerk. Electricity may not be supplied to
any house or building except upon the written order of the Municipal Clerk. The
system shall not supply to any person outside the corporate limits electrical
service without special permission from the governing body; provided, that the
consumer shall pay the appropriate meter loop fee and 50% of all expenses
incurred by the construction. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the
municipality to supply electrical service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-303)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-2701
§ 54.04 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   The village shall furnish and install the electric meter at the
village expense.
   (B)   The consumer shall pay a meter loop fee in the amount established by
the governing body and on file with the Municipal Clerk.
   (C)   The consumer shall furnish at his or her own expense all wiring,
hardware and other materials necessary to bring electrical service from the
primary supply line and/or transformer to the point of distribution.
   (D)   The village shall be the only authorized personnel to hook up or
disconnect any electrical service to the primary supply line and/or transformer
unless permission is given by the Village Superintendent.
   (E)   Repair or replacement of electrical meters shall be done at the
village expense unless such repair or replacement is made necessary by some
intentional or negligent act of the consumer.
   (F)   The service line from the primary supply line or transformer to the
point of distribution shall be owned by the consumer, and all repairs or
upgrades are at the consumer’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 3-305) (Ord. 499, passed 3-9-2026)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404
§ 54.05 RATES.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by electrical consumers for the use of electricity. All rates shall be on file
for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-306) (Ord. 440, passed - -; Ord. 359, passed 8-8-2005; Ord.
363, passed 5-8-2006; Ord. 383, passed 4-14-2008; Ord. 399, passed 7-7-2010;
Ord. 405, passed 3-14-2011; Ord. 417, passed 9-9-2013; Ord. 428, passed 10-12-
2015; Ord. 449, passed 11-12-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404
§ 54.06 CUSTOMER CHARGE.
   All electrical consumers shall be liable for the customer charge provided by
resolution unless and until the consumer shall, by written order direct the
Village Superintendent to shut off the electricity, in which case he or she
shall not be liable thereafter for electrical service until the electricity is
turned on again.
(Prior Code, § 3-307)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404
§ 54.07 SERVICE DEPOSIT FUND.
   Any service deposit required for electrical service shall be promptly paid
upon demand by all customers of the electrical system. From said deposit shall
be deducted all delinquent electrical charges. The service deposit shall be
collected by the Municipal Clerk and immediately turned over to the Municipal
Treasurer who shall keep said fees in a trust fund for the customers of the
electrical system. Said fund shall be put out at interest separate and apart
from other funds. Interest arising therefrom shall be expended solely for the
repair of equipment and property of the municipal electrical system. The
service deposit shall be refunded after two years, without interest, if all
utility bills have been paid when due during the two-year period or when
service is disconnected.
(Prior Code, § 3-308)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1404
§ 54.08 FEES; LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner of the premises will in all cases be held primarily responsible
for the electrical fees and will be required to pay for electricity at such
premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-309)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404
§ 54.09 RESTRICTED USE.
   (A)   The municipal electrical system does not guarantee the delivery of
electric current over the lines of the distribution system except when it has
sufficient power, current, equipment and machinery to do so. The Village
Superintendent has the power and authority to disconnect or discontinue such
service for any good and sufficient reason without liability.
   (B)   The municipality shall use due care and reasonable diligence to
provide and supply uninterrupted service to consumers, but shall not be liable
for damages resulting from interruption of service due to causes over which the
municipality has no control and the municipality expressly reserves the right
to discontinue or disconnect any consumer’s service without preliminary notice.
(Prior Code, § 3-310)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404
§ 54.10 BUILDING MOVING.
   (A)    Should any house or building moving occur or be necessary and it
becomes necessary in said work to remove or disturb any of the property or
wires of the municipal electrical system, the same should not be done except
upon written permission received from the Village Superintendent, who shall
then order paid in advance the actual cost of moving said wires, and such cost
shall be paid by the applicant prior to the moving of the building or house.
   (B)   All expense of removing, changing and replacing said wires or
apparatus of the electrical system shall be paid out of the deposit made prior
to moving and any surplus remaining after all expenses are paid shall be
returned to the applicant; provided, that if in the course of moving said
building or house it becomes apparent that additional expense will be incurred,
such additional deposit as deemed necessary may be demanded.
(Prior Code, § 3-311)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1404
§ 54.11 METER IN DISREPAIR.
   In the event that any customer’s meter falls out of repair or fails to
register properly, the Superintendent shall charge such customer an amount
which is the average of the amount billed during the 24 months previous to such
disrepair. If there is no such basis for comparison, the Superintendent shall
charge the customer such amount as he or she deems is fair both to the customer
and the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-312)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1404
§ 54.12 TRIMMING TREES.
   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof in close
proximity to the lines of the municipal electrical system shall, before doing
said work, give reasonable written notice to the Village Superintendent and
shall follow any and all rules and regulations which he or she may prescribe
for doing such work. It shall be unlawful for any person felling or removing
such trees or branches to disrupt or damage the lines without first giving
proper notice and receiving permission in writing to do so. Whenever it becomes
necessary to protect the lines or property of the electrical system, the
governing body shall have the power to order cut and remove any overhanging
branches or limbs of trees so that the lines will be free and safe.
(Prior Code, § 3-313) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.13 INSPECTIONS.
   The Village Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agents shall have
free access at any reasonable time to each premises and building to or in which
electricity is supplied; provided, that in the event of an emergency, such
inspections may take place at any time.
(Prior Code, § 3-314)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 54.14 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the municipal electrical system.
(Prior Code, § 3-315) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-512
§ 54.15 ELECTRICAL INTERCONNECTION STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted a Policy and Guidelines for Interconnection for
Parallel Installation and Operation of Small (25 kW-DC or less) and Large
(greater than 25 kW- DC) Customer-Owned Renewable Electric Generating
Facilities, all as attached to the ordinance codified in this chapter marked
Exhibit “A” incorporated herein, and made a part of this section.
(Ord. 444, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 54.16 GREEN ENERGY PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees hereby finds and declares it to be in
the public interest and in the interest of the customers of the village’s
electric utility that the village adopt and execute the green energy program
subscription confirmation with the State Municipal Energy Agency.
   (B)   It is hereby ordered and directed that the village, acting through its
Chairperson and Board of Trustees, execute the green energy program
subscription confirmation, a copy of the subscription confirmation being
attached hereto and made a part hereof.
   (C)   The village does hereby adopt and approve each of the objectives,
terms and conditions set forth in the green energy program subscription
confirmation.
(Ord. 473, passed 2-13-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Prohibitions on operation of vehicles
   
70.03   Traffic lanes; designation
   
70.04   Crosswalks
   
70.05   Enforcement of rules and laws
   
70.06   Failure or refusal to obey order
   
70.07   Obedience to traffic control devices; exceptions
   
70.08   Traffic officers
   
70.09   School crossing zones; designation
   
70.10   Engine braking
   
70.11   Speed limits
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such fire department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles, and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as
are designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when,
within any 600 feet along such highway, there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations or public buildings which occupy at least 300 feet
of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled
and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The chief law enforcement official, any village police
officer or any other person authorized to enforce village ordinances. With
respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also include any person
authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two
or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
Board of Trustees as a school crossing zone through the use of a sign or
traffic control device as specified by the Board in conformity with the Manual,
but does not include any area of a freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at
the location of the first sign or traffic control device identifying the school
crossing zone and continues until a sign or traffic control device indicates
that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. The part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed for
the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, and vehicles and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or other device not
inconsistent with the state’s Rules of the Road placed or erected by authority
of the Board of Trustees or any official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the state’s Rules of
the Road, Neb. RS 60-601 et seq. or of any law, ordinance, order, rule or
regulation regulating traffic which is not otherwise declared to be a
misdemeanor or a felony or, in this title, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
§ 70.02 PROHIBITIONS ON OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may by ordinance or resolution prohibit
the operation of vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the
weight of vehicles, for a total period not to exceed 180 days in any one
calendar year, when operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for
the maintenance of which the Board is responsible whenever any such highway, by
reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic condition, will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited
or the permissible weight thereof reduced.
      (2)   The Board shall erect or cause to be erected and maintained signs
designating the provisions of the ordinance or resolution at each end of that
portion of any highway affected thereby, and the ordinance or resolution shall
not be effective until such signs are erected and maintained.
   (B)   The Board may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the operation
of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to the weight
thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations shall be
designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-681)
§ 70.03 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable.
(Prior Code, § 5-103)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.04 CROSSWALKS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by
appropriate devices, markers or lines upon the street, crosswalks at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street and at such other places as it may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 5-104)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.05 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND LAWS.
   (A)   All peace officers are hereby specifically directed and authorized,
and it shall be deemed and considered a part of the official duties of each of
such officers to enforce the provisions, of the state’s Rules of the Road, Neb.
RS 60-601 et seq., and this title, including the specific enforcement of
maximum speed limits, and any other state or village law regulating the
operation of vehicles or the use of the highways.
   (B)   To perform the official duties imposed by this section, peace officers
shall have the power:
      (1)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Operator’s License Act, Neb. RS 60-462 et seq. or this title or of any other
law regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways, if and
when designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (2)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any provision of the laws of this state relating
to misdemeanors or felonies, or of similar village ordinances, if and when
designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (3)   At all times to direct all traffic in conformity with law or, in
the event of a fire or other emergency, or in order to expedite traffic or
ensure safety, to direct traffic as conditions may require;
      (4)   When in uniform, to require the driver of a vehicle to stop and
exhibit his or her operator’s license and registration certificate issued for
the vehicle and submit to an inspection of such vehicle and the license plates
and registration certificate for the vehicle and to require the driver of a
motor vehicle to present the vehicle within five days for correction of any
defects revealed by such motor vehicle inspection as may lead the inspecting
officer to reasonably believe that such motor vehicle is being operated in
violation of the statutes of this state, the rules and regulations of the
Director of Motor Vehicles or any village ordinance or regulation;
      (5)   To inspect any vehicle of a type required to be registered
according to law in any public garage or repair shop or in any place where such
a vehicle is held for sale or wrecking;
      (6)   To serve warrants relating to the enforcement of the laws
regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways; and
      (7)   To investigate traffic accidents for the purpose of carrying on a
study of traffic accidents and enforcing motor vehicle and highway safety laws.
(Neb. RS 60-683)
§ 70.06 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO OBEY ORDER.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly fails or refuses to obey any lawful order of
any peace officer who is controlling or directing traffic shall be guilty of a
traffic infraction.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly fails to obey any lawful order of a peace
officer shall be guilty of an offense whenever such order is given in
furtherance of the apprehension of a person who has violated the state’s Rules
of the Road, Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., or this title or of a person whom such
officer reasonably believes has violated the Rules or this title.
(Neb. RS 60-6,110) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the state’s Rules
of the Road, Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., or this title, unless otherwise directed
by a peace officer, subject to the exceptions granted to the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle in the Rules and this title.
   (B)   No provision of the Rules or this title for which traffic control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the
time and place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by a reasonably observant person.
Whenever any provision of the Rules or this title does not state that traffic
control devices are required, such provision shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
   (C)   Whenever traffic control devices are placed in position approximately
conforming to the requirements of the Rules or this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
   (D)   Any traffic control device placed pursuant to the Rules or this title
and purporting to conform with the lawful requirements pertaining to such
devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of the Rules or this
title unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees or the village police may at any time
detail officers, to be known as “traffic officers,” at street intersections.
      (2)   All traffic officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate
and control traffic at the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall
be their duty to direct the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and
accidents.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any order or signal of
any such traffic officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or signal
device that may have been placed at any such intersection.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES; DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Neb. RS 60-682.01 provides fines for operating a motor vehicle in
violation of authorized speed limits and states that the fines are doubled if
the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
   (B)   Neb. RS 60-6,134.01 makes it unlawful for a person operating a motor
vehicle to overtake and pass another vehicle in a school crossing zone in which
the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction and provides fines
for violation of that prohibition.
   (C)   The governing body may, by resolution, designate to the public any
area of a roadway, other than a freeway, as a school crossing zone through the
use of a sign or traffic control device as specified by the governing body in
conformity with the Manual. Any school crossing zone so designated starts at
the location of the first sign or traffic control device identifying the school
crossing zone and continues until a sign or traffic control device indicates
that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Prior Code, § 5-107) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-658.01
§ 70.10 ENGINE BRAKING.
   (A)   It shall be and hereby is determined unlawful for any person in any
part of the village to make or cause to be made loud or disturbing noises with
any mechanical device operated by compressed air and used for the purpose of
assisting braking on any motor vehicle.
   (B)   Proper notice shall be posted by the village notifying the public of
such prohibition.
(Ord. 411, passed 4-9-2012) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than
is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual
and potential hazards then existing.
   (B)   A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate speed when approaching
and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing, when approaching and
going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any
narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazards exist with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or refuses to comply with the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this title, set forth at full length or incorporated by
reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 5-401)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Regulation or prohibition authorized
   
71.02   General prohibitions; exceptions
   
71.03   Obstructing street, intersection or entrance
   
71.04   Alleys
   
71.05   Display or repair of vehicle
   
71.06   Current registration
   
71.07   Time limits
   
71.08   Parallel, angle and center parking
   
71.09   Painting of curbs
   
71.10   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles; liability for costs
Parking for Disabled Persons
   
71.25   Definitions
   
71.26   Designation of on-street parking spaces and access aisles; display of
permits
   
71.27   Designation of off-street parking stalls, spaces and access aisles
   
71.28   Citation; complaint
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 71.01 REGULATION OR PROHIBITION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
and within the reasonable exercise of the police power, may regulate or
prohibit stopping, standing or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   If the Board regulates or prohibits stopping, standing or parking all
vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or a portion of
a highway, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle subject to such
regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than a
period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park any vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
Board of Trustees indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure over a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad track; or
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or
other traffic control device located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance when properly signposted; or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as shall be
unlawful.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 OBSTRUCTING STREET, INTERSECTION OR ENTRANCE.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in an alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public place
within the village any vehicle displayed for sale. Except when necessary due to
a breakdown or other emergency, no person shall adjust or repair, or race the
motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle while standing on the highways of the
village. No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 CURRENT REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the highways or other public
property any vehicle required to be registered by the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act, Neb. RS 60-301 et seq., that is not registered in accordance
with the Act.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees adopts a resolution entirely prohibiting, or
fixing a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any highway,
it is unlawful to park or stop any vehicle in such highway for a period of time
longer than fixed in the resolution.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 PARALLEL, ANGLE AND CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway where parking is permitted shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the
right-hand curb or edge of such roadway. No vehicle shall be parked upon a
roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided by the Board of Trustees, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel
to the curb or edge of such roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic
movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway or its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or edge of such roadway.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may permit angle or center parking on any
roadway, except that angle or center parking shall not be permitted on any
federal-aid highway or on any part of the state highway system unless the
Director-State Engineer has determined that such roadway is of sufficient width
to permit angle or center parking without interfering with the free movement of
traffic.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may prohibit or restrict stopping, standing or
parking on highways under its jurisdiction and erect and maintain proper and
adequate signs thereon. No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in
violation of the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167)
   (E)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within those stalls.
   (F)   Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 PAINTING OF CURBS.
   (A)   The curb space within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant
shall be painted to indicate that parking is prohibited in such area.
   (B)   If the Board adopts a resolution regulating or prohibiting the parking
or stopping of vehicles at the curb on highways in front of certain facilities
or at certain locations, the curbs adjacent to any such facility or location
shall be painted in such manner as directed by the Board to indicate such
regulation or prohibition.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Board or its agent to cause the curb space
to be painted and to keep the same painted as provided in this chapter or as
specified by the Board. The marking or designating of portions of highways
where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall be done only by
the village through its proper officers at the direction of the Board. No
person shall paint the curb of any highway or in any manner set aside, or
attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in, any highway or part thereof,
except at such places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by the
provisions of this chapter or by a resolution adopted by the Board.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer, or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the village and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior
to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled
to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165)
**** PARKING FOR DISABLED PERSONS ****
§ 71.25DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS AISLE. A space adjacent to a handicapped parking space or passenger
loading zone which is constructed and designed in compliance with the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and the
federal rules and regulations adopted and promulgated in response to the Act.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PARKING PERMIT. A permit issued by the department
that authorizes the use of parking spaces and access aisles that have been
designated for the exclusive use of handicapped or disabled persons.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual,
neurological or physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results
in an inability to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a
wheelchair, crutch, walker or prosthetic, orthotic or other assistant device,
any individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems, any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his or
her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV, according to standards set by the American Heart Association, and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or
more limbs.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON, TEMPORARILY. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such manner for no
longer than one year.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. Violation of any section of this subchapter
regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces, including access aisles, designated for
use by handicapped or disabled persons;
      (2)   The unauthorized possession, use or display of handicapped or
disabled parking permits; or
      (3)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736 and 18-1741.01
§ 71.26 DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES; DISPLAY OF
PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The governing body may designate parking spaces, including
access aisles, for exclusive use of:
         (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113;
         (b)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
         (c)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the village, whose motor
vehicles display a handicapped or disabled parking permit; and
         (d)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the village, which
display such permit.
      (2)   All such permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit from the
motor vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when there is
no rearview mirror.
   (B)   If the governing body so designates a parking space or access aisle,
it shall be indicated by posting above ground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from each space or access aisle a sign as described in Neb. RS 18-1737.
In addition to such sign, the space or access aisle may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space or access aisle.
   (C)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   ACCESS AISLE has the same meaning as in Neb. RS 60-302.01;
      (2) HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PARKING PERMIT has the same meaning as in
Neb. RS 60-331.01;
      (3) HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON has the same meaning as in Neb. RS 60-
331.02 as certified by the Department of Motor Vehicles; and
      (4) TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON has the same meaning as in
Neb. RS 60-352.01 as certified by the Department of Motor Vehicles.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736
§ 71.27 DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING STALLS, SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES.
   The village and any person in lawful possession of any off-street parking
facility may designate stalls or spaces, including access aisles, in such
facility owned or operated by the village or person for exclusive use of:
   (A)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-3,113.06;
   (B)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped
or disabled persons, as certified by the as certified by the Department of
Motor Vehicles, whose motor vehicles display the permit; and
   (C)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the as certified by the
Department of Motor Vehicles, which display such permit. Such designation shall
be made by posting above ground and immediately adjacent to and visible from
each stall or space, including access aisles, a sign which is in conformance
with the requirements in Neb. RS 18-1737.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 71.28 CITATION; COMPLAINT.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the governing body to exercise the authority
to issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
   (B)   (1)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court.
      (2)   Unless the person cited requests an earlier date, the time of
appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the handicapped
parking citation.
      (3)   One copy of the handicapped parking citation shall be delivered to
the person cited or attached to the offending motor vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the Village Attorney, or other person authorized by law to issue
a complaint for the particular offense, shall issue and file a complaint
charging such person with a handicapped parking infraction, or such person
shall be released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury. A person cited for a handicapped parking violation
may waive his or her right to trial.
   (E)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped parking
infraction by reason of the failure of a vehicle to display a handicapped
parking permit issued, the complaint shall be dismissed, if, within seven
business days after the date of issuance of the citation, the person cited
files with the court the affidavit included on the citation, signed by a peace
officer certifying that the recipient is the lawful possessor in his or her own
right of a handicapped parking permit, and that the peace officer has
personally viewed the permit.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1741.01, 18-1741.04 and 18-1741.06
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Operation; speed limit
   
72.03   License, insurance
   
72.04   Exceptions for parades
   
72.05   Operation on highways
Golf Carts
   
72.20   Purpose
   
72.21   Operation
   
72.22   Definitions
 
   
72.99   Penalty
**** ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ****
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on three or more low-pressure tires;
      (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
      (5)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and
      (6)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering control.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is not less than 48 inches nor more than 74 inches in width;
         (b)   Is not more than 135 inches, including the bumper, in length;
         (c)   Has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds nor more than 2,000
pounds;
         (d)   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires; and
         (e)   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type
seating designed for at least two people to sit side-by-side.
      (2)   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does not include golf carts or low-speed
vehicles.
(Ord. 403, passed 12-13-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-624 and 60-6,355
§ 72.02 OPERATION; SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle and a utility-type vehicle may be operated on
streets and highways within the corporate limits of the village only if the
operator and the vehicle comply with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   An all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle may be operated only
between the hours of sunrise and sunset and shall not be operated at a speed in
excess of 30 mph. When operating an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type
vehicle as authorized in division (A) above, the headlight and taillight of the
vehicle shall be on, and the vehicle shall be equipped with a bicycle safety
flag which extends not less than five feet above-ground attached to the rear of
such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area
of not less than 30 square inches and shall be DayGlo in color.
(Ord. 403, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 72.03 LICENSE, INSURANCE.
   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle as
authorized in §
72.02(A) shall have:
   (A)   A valid Class O operator’s license or a farm permit as provided in
Neb. RS 60-4,126; and
   (B)   Liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle or a utility-
type vehicle while operating the all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle
on a street or highway. The person operating the all-terrain vehicle or a
utility-type vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any
peace officer requesting such proof within five days of such a request.
(Ord. 403, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 72.04 EXCEPTIONS FOR PARADES.
   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated without
complying with §§
72.02(B) or
72.03 on streets and highways in parades which have been authorized by the
state, or any department, board, commission or political subdivision of the
state.
(Ord. 403, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 72.05 OPERATION ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle shall not be operated
on any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and
the crossing of any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic
lanes shall not be permitted. This subchapter authorizes and applies to
operation of an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle only on a street
or highway other than a controlled-access highway with more than two marked
traffic lanes.
   (B)   Subject to division (A) above, the crossing of a street or highway
shall be permitted by an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle without
complying with this subchapter only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
(Ord. 403, passed 12-13-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,356
**** GOLF CARTS ****
§ 72.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to allow the use of golf carts on the
streets within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 430, passed 10-12-2015)
§ 72.21 OPERATION.
   (A)   Golf carts may be used on the streets within the village, provided the
driver of the golf cart has a valid Class O operator’s license. The owner of
the golf cart shall have liability insurance coverage for the golf cart. The
person operating the golf cart is required to provide proof of insurance
coverage to any peace officer requesting such proof within five days after such
request.
   (B)   Further, the driver may only operate the golf cart under the following
restrictions:
      (1)   The operation is between sunrise and sunset;
      (2)   The operation is on streets with a posted speed limit of 35 mph or
less;
      (3)   The golf cart is equipped with an orange safety flag;
      (4)   The operator shall not operate such vehicle at a speed in excess of
20 mph; and
      (5)   Golf cart may not be operated on any state or federal highway,
except to cross a portion of the highway as directed below:
         (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
         (b)   The golf cart is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the highway;
         (c)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic
that constitutes an immediate potential hazard; and
         (d)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with a street or road, if applicable.
(Ord. 430, passed 10-12-2015)
§ 72.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ROAD. A public way for the purposes of vehicular travel, including the
entire area within the right-of-way.
   STREET. A public way for the purposes of vehicular traveling a city or
village and included the entire area within the right-of-way.
(Ord. 430, passed 10-12-2015)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   A person who violates §§
72.01 through
72.05 shall be punished as provided generally in the municipal code.
(Ord. 403, passed 12-13-2010)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle within the municipality at a
rate of speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then
existing, and under no circumstances shall the rate of speed be in excess of 25
mph, except as follows.
Location Speed Limit
Location                                                Speed Limit
From the west boundary of the corporate limits on
Arnold Avenue east to the intersection of Arnold Avenue Not in excess of 45 mph
and Broadway Street
From the intersection of Arnold Avenue and Broadway
Street east to the intersection of Arnold Avenue and    Not in excess of 30 mph
Haskell Street
From the intersection of Arnold Avenue and Haskell      Not in excess of 45 mph
Street east to the end of the corporate limits
From the south corporate limits on Carroll Street,
north to the intersection of Carroll Street and Fifth   Not in excess of 45 mph
Avenue
From the intersection of Fifth Avenue and Carroll
Street north to the intersection of Carroll Street and  Not in excess of 35 mph
Second Avenue
From the intersection of Second Avenue and Carroll
Street north to the intersection of Arnold Avenue and   Not in excess of 30 mph
Carroll Street
From the intersection of Carroll Street and Tyler       Not in excess of 35 mph
Street north to the corporate limits
 
   (B)   Under no circumstances shall the rate of speed be in excess of 15 mph
on the following streets:
      (1)   From the intersection of North Carroll and Madison Avenue east to
the intersection of Madison Avenue and Court Street;
      (2)   From the intersection of Lincoln Avenue and North Hillcrest Street
north to the intersection of North Hillcrest Street and Madison Avenue;
      (3)   From the intersection of Court Street and Lincoln Avenue north to
the intersection of Court Street and Adams Avenue;
      (4)   From the intersection of Court Street and Adams Avenue west to the
intersection of Adams Avenue and North Haskell Street;
      (5)   From the intersection of Lincoln Avenue and North Haskell Street
north to the intersection of Adams Avenue and North Haskell Street; and
      (6)   From the intersection of Carroll Street and Jefferson Avenue east
to the intersection of Jefferson Avenue and North Haskell Street.
   (C)   Speed limits shall be plainly indicated by appropriate signs or
standards on all main traveled highways at or near their approach to the
corporate limits or at or near their approach to the limits of the congested
district.
   (D)   The speed limits for Highway N-92 (Arnold Avenue) within the village
shall be as follows.
 
Location                                                            Speed Limit
From 1,100 feet west of Birch Street to 150 feet east of Birch      45 mph
Street
From 150 feet east of Birch Street to the east side of Court Street 30 mph
From the east side of Court Street to 1,150 feet east of Court      45 mph
Street
 
   (E)   The speed limits for Highway N-40 (Carroll Street) within the village
shall be as follows.
 
Location                                                          Speed Limit
From Arnold Avenue to the south side of 3rd Avenue                30 mph
From the south side of 3rd Avenue to 200 feet south of 7th Avenue 45 mph
 
(Prior Code, § 5-106) (Ord. 388, passed 1-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Parks and Recreational Facilities
   
90.01   Operation and funding
   
90.02   Injury to property
Municipal Swimming Pool
   
90.15   Operation and funding
   
90.16   Rules and regulations
   
90.17   Admission charge
   
90.18   Rentals
Community Center
   
90.30   Ownership
   
90.31   Rentals
   
90.31   Rules and regulations
**** PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES ****
§ 90.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   If the village has already acquired or hereafter acquires land for
park purposes or recreational facilities or has already built or hereafter
builds swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, the Board of Trustees
may each year make and levy a tax upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property in the village. The levy shall be collected and put into the Village
Treasury and shall constitute the Park and Recreation Fund of the village. The
funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements, for laying out,
improving and beautifying such parks, for maintaining, improving, managing and
beautifying such swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, and for the
payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the performance of such
labor.
(Neb. RS 17-951)
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees creates a Board of Park Commissioners or
Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners, when such Board has been appointed
and qualified, all accounts against the Park Fund or Park and Recreation Fund,
as the case may be, shall be audited by such Board, and warrants against the
fund shall be drawn by the Chairperson of the Board, and warrants so drawn
shall be paid by the Village Treasurer out of the fund.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (C)   (1)   Whether the title to real estate for parks, public grounds,
swimming pools or dams, either for recreational or conservational purposes,
shall be acquired by gift, devise or purchase as provided in Neb. RS 17-948,
the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees or Park Board shall at once be
extended over such real estate; and the Board of Trustees or Park Board shall
have the power to enact bylaws, rules or ordinances for the protection and
preservation of any real estate acquired, and to provide rules and regulations
for the closing of the park or swimming pool, in whole or in part, to the
general public, and charge admission thereto during such closing, either by the
village or by any person, persons or corporation leasing the same. They may
provide suitable penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules or
ordinances, and the police power of the village shall be at once extended over
the same.
(Neb. RS 17-949)
      (2)   The Park Board shall not enter into a contract of any nature that
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the Board of Trustees prior to the contractual agreement.
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
   Parks and recreational facilities generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-
952
§ 90.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub in any village park or recreational
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table or any other property of any village park or recreational area. No
person shall commit any waste on or litter the village parks or other public
grounds.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
**** MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL ****
§ 90.15 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and manages the municipal swimming pool. The governing
body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance and
improvements of the swimming pool may each year levy a tax not exceeding the
maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the taxable value of all the taxable
property within the municipality. The revenue from the tax shall be known as
the Swimming Pool Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of
conveyance, bequests or other valuable income-producing personal property and
real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the swimming pool. The
Swimming Pool Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The Superintendent shall have the power and authority to supervise
the Swimming Pool Manager and life guards. All actions by the Village
Superintendent shall be under the supervision and control of the governing
body.
(Prior Code, § 3-701)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948, 17-951 and 17-952
§ 90.16 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The governing body shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws, rules
and regulations for the protection of those using the swimming pool and for the
efficient management thereof and may provide suitable penalties for the
violation of such bylaws, rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-702)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949
§ 90.17 ADMISSION CHARGE.
   The governing body may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved
in maintaining, improving, managing and beautifying the swimming pool, make a
reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the municipal swimming
pool. Said charges shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and
shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal swimming pool for
public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 3-703)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949
§ 90.18 RENTALS.
   The Village Superintendent shall have the authority to rent the municipal
swimming pool to such organizations and other persons as he or she may in his
or her discretion see fit, subject to the review of the governing body. The
Village Superintendent shall prescribe rules and regulations for such rentals
and shall require an appropriate number of qualified lifeguards to be in
attendance during the rental period. Such fees and other costs shall be on file
at the office of the Municipal Clerk and posted in a conspicuous place at the
municipal swimming pool.
(Prior Code, § 3-704)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949
**** COMMUNITY CENTER ****
§ 90.30 OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns and manages the Arnold Community Center through the
Municipal Clerk. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of
the management, maintenance and improvements on the Community Center, may each
year levy a tax, not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on
the taxable value of all the taxable property within the municipality. The
revenue from the tax shall be known as the Community Center Fund and shall
include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests or other valuable
income-producing personal property and real estate from any source for the
purpose of endowing the Community Center. The Community Center Fund shall at
all times be in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 3-901)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953 through 17-955
§ 90.31 RENTALS.
   The governing body may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved
in maintaining, improving, managing and beautifying the Community Center, make
a reasonable rental charge for the use by any person or organization of the
Community Center. The governing body shall prescribe rules and regulations for
such rentals. Rental rates may be structured for classes of persons and
organizations in a reasonable manner.
(Prior Code, § 3-902)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953
§ 90.32 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The governing body shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws, rules
and regulations for the protection of the Community Center and the safety of
those using the Community Center facilities. It may provide suitable penalties
for the violation of such bylaws, rules and regulations. All damage suffered by
the Community Center during any rental shall be assessed against the person or
organization responsible for the rental thereof, or shall be deducted from the
damage deposit which the governing body may in its discretion have required
prior to the rental. All rental fees, rules and regulations shall be on file
for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk at any reasonable
time.
(Prior Code, § 3-903)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Health regulations
   
91.02   Enforcement official
Nuisances
   
91.15   Definition
   
91.16   Abatement procedure
   
91.17   Jurisdiction
   
91.18   Dead or diseased trees
   
91.19   Weeds; litter; stagnant water
 
   
91.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 91.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
village, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The official designated by the Board of Trustees as the quarantine officer
shall be the chief health officer of the village. It shall be his or her duty
to notify the Board of Trustees and the Board of Health of health nuisances
within the village and its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, see Neb. RS 17-208
**** NUISANCES ****
§ 91.15 DEFINITION.
   (A)   General definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street
or highway in the village;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions, places,
conditions and things are hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stableyards, factory yards, mill yards or vacant areas in the rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the village;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the village, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger, or which are so unsightly
as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (8)   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings, billboards or other
structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or safety,
or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the vicinity
thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure in which animals or fowl of any kind
are confined or on which is stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter, including grain, is being
processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the premises
on which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom to
the annoyance of inhabitants of the village or are maintained and kept in such
a manner as to be injurious to the public health; or
      (12)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any real estate within the corporate limits
or extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village shall keep such real
estate free of nuisances. Except to the extent that conflicting procedures are
otherwise provided, the procedures in this section shall apply to the abatement
of nuisances.
   (B)   Upon determination by the Board of Health or designated official that
the owner or occupant of any such real estate has failed to keep the real
estate free of nuisances, notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice
of the right to a hearing before the Board of Trustees and the manner in which
it may be requested shall be given to each owner, or the owner’s duly
authorized agent, and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or by
certified mail. If notice by personal service or certified mail is
unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village or by conspicuously posting the notice on the real
estate upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. The notice shall
describe the condition as found by the Board of Health or designated official
and state that the condition has been declared a nuisance and must be remedied
at once.
   (C)   If, within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant of the real estate does
not request a hearing with the village or fails to comply with the order to
abate and remove the nuisance, the village may have such work done.
   (D)   (1)   If, within five days after receipt of such notice or publication
or posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant requests in writing
a hearing with the Board of Trustees, the Board shall fix a time and place at
which a hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal
service or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear before
the Board to show cause why such condition should not be found to be a nuisance
and remedied. The notice shall be given not less than seven nor more than 14
days before the time of the hearing.
      (2)   Upon the date fixed for the hearing and pursuant to the notice, the
Board shall hear all objections made by the owner or occupant and shall hear
evidence submitted by the Board of Health or designated official.
         (a)   If, after consideration of all the evidence, the Board of
Trustees finds that the condition is a nuisance, it shall by resolution order
and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the nuisance at once.
         (b)   If the owner or occupant refuses or neglects to promptly comply
with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the Board may have such work
done.
   (E)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner. If
unpaid for two months after such work is done, the village may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the real
estate so benefited as a special assessment in the same manner as other special
assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the real estate and the adjoining streets and alleys.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Nuisances prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-1321
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563
   Zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 17-1001
§ 91.17 JURISDICTION.
   The Chairperson or other designated official of the municipality are
directed to enforce this municipal code against all nuisances. The jurisdiction
of the Chairperson, or other designated official, and court shall extend to,
and the territorial application of this chapter shall include, all territory
adjacent to the limits of the municipality within one mile thereof and all
territory within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 4-304)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 91.18 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets
within the corporate limits of the village or within the extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to
a hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner, or owner’s duly authorized agent, and to the occupant, if any. The
village shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given
by first-class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its
importance. Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground may request a hearing with the village
to appeal the decision to abate or remove the nuisance by filing a written
appeal with the office of the Village Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be
held within 14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an
elected or appointed officer as designated in the ordinance. The hearing
officer shall render a decision on the appeal within five business days after
the conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the village may have the
work done to abate and remove the dead or diseased trees. If the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the
village within five days after receipt of such notice or fails to comply with
the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the village may have such work
done. The village may levy and assess all or any portion of the costs and
expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefited as a special
assessment.
(Neb. RS 17-555)
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the corporate
limits of the village or within its one-mile zoning jurisdiction. The
provisions in division (A)(2) above shall apply to such nuisances. For the
purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section, the village police
shall have the authority to enter upon private property to inspect the trees
thereon.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the village or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall be drained or filled so as to
prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the village
or within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall keep the lot or piece
of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free of any growth of 12 inches
or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the village or within its one-mile zoning jurisdiction is
prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation
on any lot or piece of ground within the village or within its one-mile zoning
jurisdiction or on the adjoining streets or alleys or to litter or cause litter
to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The village
shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given by first-
class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot
or piece of ground may request a hearing with the village to appeal the
decision to abate or remove a nuisance by filing a written appeal with the
office of the Village Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14
days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an elected or
appointed officer as designated in the ordinance. The hearing officer shall
render a decision on the appeal within five business days after the conclusion
of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the village may have such work done.
Within five days after receipt of such notice, if the owner or occupant of the
lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the village or fails to
comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the village may have
such work done.
      (2)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the village may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefited as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation, except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
      WEEDS. Includes, but is not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa) and
ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. RS 17-563) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates or refuses to comply with the enforcement of
any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length or incorporated
by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
(Prior Code, § 4-401)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 4-402)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Fire limits defined
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Ironclads prohibited
   
92.04   New constructions, additions and repairs; materials permitted
   
92.05   Moving combustible buildings; restrictions
   
92.06   Damaged buildings and structures; removal required
Fireworks
   
92.20   Firecrackers; prohibitions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 92.01 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The territory or area embraced within the following limits shall be and
shall constitute the “fire limits” of the municipality: Blocks 1, 2, 3, 4,
Original Town of Arnold; Blocks 15 and 16, R.E. Allen’s Addition to Arnold; and
Blocks 3 and 4, Loup Valley Land Co. Addition to Arnold.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A house for business, for residence, for public use or for the
shelter of a person or animal or the storage or display for sale of goods,
wares and merchandise or any erection connected with the temporary or permanent
use of people and any fixture or article of a chattel nature which can be
severed from the land after having been affixed to it.
   STRUCTURE. Any production or piece of work used for shelter artificially
built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner and not
necessarily affixed to the land, although resting upon it and capable of being
moved from one place to another.
(Prior Code, § 7-102)
§ 92.03 IRONCLADS PROHIBITED.
   All buildings, sheds or structures known as ironclads, that is, buildings,
sheds or structures constructed of wood and covered with sheet iron or tin or
metal attached to a frame work or posts or any skeleton support constructed of
wood or other combustible material, shall be considered of combustible
materials and the erection of such buildings, sheds or structures is hereby
prohibited within the fire limits of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.04 NEW CONSTRUCTIONS, ADDITIONS AND REPAIRS; MATERIALS PERMITTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, company or corporation to build,
erect, construct or cause to be built, erected or constructed any wooden or
other combustible building or part thereof or to enlarge any such building, or
to build any addition thereto within the fire limits.
   (B)   Every building hereafter erected or enlarged within the fire limits
shall be enclosed on all sides with walls constructed wholly of stone, well-
burned brick, terra cotta, concrete or equivalent non-combustible material; or
the interior of the building shall be protected with a minimum of one-hour fire
resistant material and/or sprinkler system. Roofs and dormer windows on such
buildings may be constructed with wood joists, but such roofs and dormer
windows shall, in all cases, be covered with non-combustible material of a
minimum of one-hour fire resistant material. Non-combustible materials may be
construed to include wood when applied to floors in any building within the
fire limits. All cornices shall be of non-combustible material.
   (C)   No alteration or addition to any frame, stucco, ironclad or other
combustible structure now located in the fire limits, increasing the size of
such structure, shall be made unless the same is made of non-combustible
material of a minimum of one-hour fire resistant material, except that permits
for minor repairs on existing combustible structures, such as to stop leaky
shingle roofs or siding on existing warehouses or storage sheds, where the work
may be fairly construed as patching or covering small areas on the outside or
inside of combustible buildings, shall not require fireproof materials, and
when combustible buildings are permitted to be roofed or re-roofed in the fire
limits, roof covering over all combustible roof construction shall be one of
the following kinds: composition roofings bearing the label and laid in the
manner provided by the Underwriters Laboratory, Inc., for Class A and B;
concrete slab or concrete tile; slate; clay; tile; or asphalt and gravel or
pitch and gravel.
(Prior Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.05 MOVING COMBUSTIBLE BUILDINGS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, company or corporation to move
in, on or place upon any lot or parcel of ground within the fire limits any
wood or combustible building or structure, or of any part thereof, which had
been built, erected or constructed elsewhere, or to remove any such building or
structure or part thereof from one part of the same lot to another part thereof
within the fire limits, except that, upon application in writing from the owner
or agent, permission may be granted by a two-thirds vote of the members
required to be elected to the governing body for a temporary removal of a
combustible building to such a location in the street or other place within the
fire limits as the governing body shall specify, when the owner of any such
building desires immediately to construct on its former site a building of non-
combustible material and shall immediately after the completion of the non-
combustible building, move the combustible building outside of the fire limits.
   (B)   Before any such permit is issued, the owner or agent desiring the
permit shall furnish the municipality with a good and sufficient bond
conditioned to save the municipality harmless from any liability occasioned by
such removal and the payment of a penalty of $10 per day for each and every day
such combustible building is allowed to remain on its temporary site after the
completion of the non-combustible building.
(Prior Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 DAMAGED BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES; REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever any wood or combustible building or structure or any non-
combustible building stands within the fire limits and it is damaged by fire or
other casualty to the extent of 75% or more of its value (exclusive of
foundation), it shall not be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be taken down and
removed within 60 days from the date of such fire or other casualty.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, company or corporation to repair
or rebuild any such damaged building or structure or for any owner thereof to
fail to remove any such damaged building or structure and to protect and guard
the public from injury or damage arising out of such excavation or open
basement remaining, if any, with 30 days after notice to do so from the
governing body.
   (C)   If the owner fails or neglects to remove the building or structure,
and to protect and guard the public from injury or damage arising out of such
excavation or open basement, remaining if any, as commanded by the notice, the
village, upon motion of the governing body shall remove the building or
structure and shall protect and guard the excavation or open basement, if any,
and shall report the cost and expense thereof to the Village Attorney who shall
collect such cost and expense from the owner by civil suit or otherwise in the
name of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-106) (Ord. 442, passed 12-11-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
**** FIREWORKS ****
§ 92.20 FIRECRACKERS; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, display, sell or
offer for sale, give away, keep, store, use, start, discharge, set off, ignite
or explode, or cause to be exploded within the corporate limits of the
municipality, any firecrackers, fireworks or any device or composition
whatsoever designed or intended to produce visible or audible pyrotechnic
display, or any blank cartridges, toy cannons or any other devices for the
exploding of the fireworks above specified, except as allowed and permitted by
state statutes.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) above shall apply to possession of
pyrotechnics which are in transportation to points outside of the municipality;
nor shall it apply to the possession or transportation of such pyrotechnics
held by wholesale dealers for sale and shipment in unbroken packages to points
or places outside the municipality, if the same are stored, shipped and
transported in accordance with the rules and requirements established by the
Rural Fire District of the municipality; nor shall it apply to the sale,
storage or use of railroad track torpedoes or other signaling devices used by
railroads, nor to the sale, storage and use of flash light composition by
photographers or dealers in photographic supplies. The foregoing prohibitions
shall not apply to pyrotechnic displays on Independence Day or at other public
celebrations or festival occasions within any of the parks in the municipality,
if such displays are given from a place or point within said park fenced or
roped off, so that any member of the public in said park cannot approach within
100 feet of the pyrotechnics used or within 100 feet of the point where said
pyrotechnics are ignited or set off, and no person shall be allowed within such
enclosures except persons who are actually engaged in and authorized to handle
the giving or putting on of such pyrotechnic display; provided, that no such
displays shall be given, even in compliance herewith, unless the person or
persons sponsoring such display shall have first applied to and secured a
permit in writing from the Chairperson and Board of Trustees to do so; and
provided further, that each application shall first be approved by the Chief of
the Rural Fire District in writing before granted, and, if granted, said permit
shall provide, among other things, that said display shall be under the direct
supervision and control of said Chief with regard to all details affecting the
fire and safety hazards.
(Prior Code, § 7-201) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, neglects or refuses to
comply with, or who resists or opposes the enforcement of any of the provisions
of §§
92.01 through
92.06 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500 for
each offense, and the costs of prosecution. Every such person, firm or
corporation shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for every day on which
such violation, neglect or refusal shall continue. Any builder, contractor or
owner who constructs, or causes to be constructed, any building or any part of
such building, in violation of any of the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.06, or who fails or neglects to remove buildings or structure when damaged
by fire or other casualty or to protect and guard the remaining excavation or
open basement, if any, and any architect or other person designing or drawing
plans for, or having charge of such building or part of such building, or who
permits it to be so constructed shall be liable to the penalties provided by
this section.
(Prior Code, § 7-107)
   (B)   Any person who violates or refuses to comply with the enforcement of
any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length or incorporated
by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
(Prior Code, § 7-301)
   (C)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 7-302)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Running at large; tethering
   
93.03   Killing, poisoning and injuring
   
93.04   Animals allowed; distance from other structures; enclosures; pre-
existing use
   
93.05   Impoundment
   
93.06   Animal shelter established; management
   
93.07   Interference with police
Rabies
   
93.20   Post-incident management
   
93.21   Animal pound; impoundment; release; fees
   
93.22   Proclamation of danger
Dogs
   
93.35   Liability of owner
   
93.36   Barking and chasing; complaints
   
93.37   Dangerous dogs
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom other than an uncaptured
wild creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person authorized by law or employed or
appointed for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this chapter or any
other law or ordinance relating to the licensing, control, seizure or
impoundment of animals.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, harbors or has charge, custody
or control of an animal or permits an animal to habitually remain or be lodged
or fed within his or her house, store, building, enclosure, yard, lot, grounds
or premises. OWNER does not include any veterinarian or kennel operator
temporarily maintaining on his or her premises an animal owned by another
person for not more than 30 days.
   RUN AT LARGE. Not being under the actual control of the owner by means of:
      (1)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
which is securely fastened or tethered in a manner sufficient to keep the
animal on the premises where tethered;
      (2)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
of six feet or less in length physically held by the owner;
      (3)   Being confined within a cage, receptacle, enclosed vehicle, fenced
enclosure or shelter; or
      (4)   Being within the real property limits of the owner and in the
owner’s presence and under direct and effective voice or other control.
§ 93.02 RUNNING AT LARGE; TETHERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cow, hog, horse, mule,
sheep, goat, dog, chicken, turkey, goose or other animal, except a cat, to
permit the animal to run at large at any time on any of the public ways and
property or the property of another in the village, or to be tethered or staked
out in such a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass into any public
way or property or any property of another.
   (B)   The owner of a cat may permit the cat to run at large within the
corporate limits subject to any restrictions or prohibitions otherwise imposed
by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Any animal found running at large or tethered or staked out in
violation of this section is a public nuisance and may be impounded or
destroyed as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit anyone to own an
animal in the corporate limits of the village that is prohibited by the Board
of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
   Fine for permitting collarless dog to run at large, see Neb. RS 54-607
§ 93.03 KILLING, POISONING AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort to, or in any manner injure, maim or destroy,
or attempt to injure, maim or destroy, any animal or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal, except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this chapter
or other provisions of law.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 ANIMALS ALLOWED; DISTANCE FROM OTHER STRUCTURES; ENCLOSURES; PRE-
EXISTING USE.
   (A)   No person, whether as owner, bailee, keeper or custodian, shall keep
or maintain any horses, mules, donkeys, llamas, alpacas, cows, sheep, goats,
ostriches, emus or rheas, regardless of breed, within 100 feet of the
residential structure or place of business of another person. The distance from
an enclosure to a residential or business structure shall be measured from the
nearest point of a residential or business structure to the nearest point of
the fence or other barrier which encloses said animals(s).
   (B)   The concentration of horses, mules, donkeys, llamas, alpacas, cows,
sheep, goats, ostriches, emus or rheas otherwise allowed by division (A) above
shall in no event exceed five animal units per acre per enclosure, or a
proportional number of animal units per two-tenths of an acre based upon the
size of the enclosure in which they are confined.
   (C)   For purposes of the calculations of the allowable animal units for an
enclosure, the area of such enclosure shall be calculated only to the tenth of
an acre. The calculated area of an enclosure shall not be mathematically
rounded up to the next two-tenths of an acre increment. For example, an
enclosure of 0.29 shall be considered two-tenths of an acre and allowed one
animal unit. An enclosure of 0.4 (40/100) would be allowed two animal units.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, one ANIMAL UNIT shall consist of one
female and un-weaned offspring or one male, regardless of whether it has been
neutered. The term ANIMAL shall include all species of mammals, birds and
domestic livestock referred to in division (A) above.
   (E)   All pens, cages, sheds, yards or any other area or enclosure of the
confinement of animal and fowls not specifically barred within the corporate
limits shall be kept in a clean, secure and orderly manner so as not to become
a menace or nuisance to the neighborhood in which said enclosure is located.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to existing uses of
land and the existing confinement of animals in existence as of the effective
date of this section. If an existing use is discontinued for a period of one
year or more, said pre-existing use shall lose its exempt status and shall
become subject to the terms and prohibitions of this section. No terms of this
division (F) shall be construed as authorizing an increase of the animal unit
concentration of any pre-existing use otherwise exempted herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-201) (Ord. 443, passed 7- -2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the impoundment of animals to which §
93.21 does not apply.
   (B)   Any animal found in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
be impounded. All impounded domestic animals shall be given proper care,
treatment and maintenance.
   (C)   Notice of the impoundment of all animals, including any significant
marks of identification, shall be posted at the pound and at the office of the
Village Clerk within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification of
impoundment. Notice of the impoundment of any licensed dog shall also be mailed
to the owner listed on the license application by regular United States mail to
the address listed on the application.
   (D)   Each impounded domestic animal shall be kept and maintained at the
pound for a period of not less than five days after public notice has been
given unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. The owner may reclaim the animal
during the period of impoundment by payment of any general impoundment and
daily board fees set by resolution of the Board of Trustees and on file in the
office of the Village Clerk, except that, in addition, an unusual or other non-
domesticated or wild animal shall only be released upon condition that the
owner shall immediately remove the animal from the village or destroy it. A
diseased animal may be released upon a determination that the health and safely
of the public is no longer threatened. The owner of any released animal shall
be required to comply with any licensing and rabies vaccination requirements
applicable to such animal within 72 hours after release.
   (E)   If the animal is unclaimed at the end of the required waiting period
after public notice has been given, the animal control officer may destroy and
dispose of the animal in a humane manner in accordance with applicable rules
and regulations, except that if, in the judgment of the officer, a suitable
home can be found for the animal, the animal shall be turned over to the person
who can provide such home, and the new owner shall be required to pay all fees
and meet all applicable licensing and vaccinating requirements. The village
shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog or any other animal impounded
in the animal shelter for a period longer than the required waiting period
after giving notice. The owner of the animal shall remain liable for payment of
the fees established by the Board of Trustees.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish pens and pounds, see Neb. RS 17-548 and 71-4408
   Authority to impound and sell animals, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
§ 93.06 ANIMAL SHELTER ESTABLISHED; MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The municipality shall provide a safe, suitable and conveniently
located animal shelter for the impounding, keeping and destruction of dogs as
contemplated in this chapter; and said shelter shall be suitable. All dogs
placed in the animal shelter shall be treated in a humane manner and shall be
provided with plenty of food and fresh water each day. Notice of impoundment of
all animals, including any significant marks of identification, shall be posted
at the pound as public notification of impoundment. The 72-hour period of
impounding shall constitute the time allowed for the owners of licensed and
unlicensed dogs to claim or redeem their dogs; and for every dog so claimed or
redeemed, the owner shall pay a redemption fee of $25 to the municipality to
defray the expense of keeping said dog in the animal shelter. The designated
village official shall release, during said periods, from the animal shelter
any dog to any person who proves ownership thereof, who procures and produces
the license receipt for the current year and who pays the redemption or shelter
fee or any other penalties provided in this chapter.
   (B)   All licensed or unlicensed dogs which shall have remained in the
shelter 72 hours without being claimed, redeemed or released shall be destroyed
and buried as provided in this section unless, in the judgment of the
designated village official, a suitable home may be found for such dogs;
provided, that if a suitable home may be found for any such dog within the
corporate limits of the municipality, the person taking such dog from the
animal shelter shall first secure from municipality’s agent a license and
metallic tag for that particular dog and also pay the shelter fee and any other
penalties provided in this chapter; and provided, further, that the
municipality acquires legal title to any licensed or unlicensed dog impounded
in the animal shelter at the expiration of the time limit of 72 hours.
(Prior Code, § 6-115)
§ 93.07 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
police officer or animal control officer who is performing any duty enjoined
upon that person by the provisions of this chapter or to break open, or in any
manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open, of the
animal shelter, any ambulance wagon or any other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of animals to the shelter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
**** RABIES ****
§ 93.20 POST-INCIDENT MANAGEMENT.
   Any domestic animal which has bitten any person or caused an abrasion of the
skin of any person shall be subjected to post-incident management as provided
in the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the Department.
(Neb. RS 71-4406) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.21 ANIMAL POUND; IMPOUNDMENT; RELEASE; FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The rabies control authority may authorize an animal pound or
pounds or may enter into a cooperative agreement with a licensed veterinarian
for the establishment and operation of a pound.
      (2)   Any dog or hybrid of the family Canidae found outside the owner’s
premises whose owner does not possess a valid certificate of rabies vaccination
and valid rabies vaccination tag for the dog or hybrid of the family Canidae
shall be impounded. The rabies control authority may require the impoundment of
domestic or hybrid animals other than dogs or hybrids of the family Canidae.
All impounded domestic or hybrid animals shall be given proper care, treatment
and maintenance. Each impounded domestic or hybrid animal shall be kept and
maintained at the pound for a period of not less than 72 hours unless reclaimed
earlier by the owner.
      (3)   Notice of the impoundment of all animals, including any significant
marks of identification, shall be posted at the pound as public notification of
impoundment. Any unvaccinated domestic or hybrid animal may be reclaimed by its
owner during the period of impoundment by payment of prescribed pound fees and
by complying with the rabies vaccination requirement of this subchapter within
72 hours of release. Any vaccinated domestic or hybrid animal impounded because
its owner has not presented a valid certificate of rabies vaccination and a
valid rabies vaccination tag for the domestic or hybrid animal may be reclaimed
by its owner by furnishing proof of rabies vaccination and payment of all
impoundment fees prior to release.
      (4)   At the expiration of impoundment, a domestic or hybrid animal may
be claimed by payment of established pound fees and by compliance with the
rabies vaccination requirement of this subchapter within 72 hours of release.
If the domestic or hybrid animal is unclaimed at the end of five days, the
authorities may dispose of the domestic or hybrid animal in accordance with
applicable laws or rules and regulations.
(Neb. RS 71-4408)
   (B)   Impoundment fees shall be paid by the owner. Fees for impoundment at
public facilities shall be established by the rabies control authority.
(Neb. RS 71-4411)
§ 93.22 PROCLAMATION OF DANGER.
   Whenever, in its opinion, the danger to the public safety from a species of
rabid animals is great or imminent, the Board of Trustees shall issue a
proclamation ordering all owners of any such species to muzzle the animal or to
confine it for a period of not less than 30 days nor more than 90 days from the
date of the proclamation or until the danger is passed. The animal may be
harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage or yard on the
premises on which the owner may reside. Upon issuance of a proclamation, all
owners of any such species shall muzzle or confine the animal as provided in
this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
**** DOGS ****
§ 93.35 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner of the dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon conviction, may be
made to be liable to the person injured in an amount equal to the value of the
damage sustained.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against injuries or annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
   Statutory liability for damages, see Neb. RS 54-601, 56-602 and 54-606
§ 93.36 BARKING AND CHASING; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to annoy or disturb
any neighborhood or person by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or
yelping or to habitually bark at or chase pedestrians, drivers or owners of
horses or vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks, streets or alleys in
the village.
   (B)   Upon the written complaint of two or more affected persons from
different households, filed within any 30-day period with the Village Clerk or
animal control officer, that any dog owned by the person named in the complaint
is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise violates the provisions of this
section, the village police or animal control officer shall investigate the
complaint, and if, in his or her opinion, the situation warrants, notify the
owner to silence and restrain the dog.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to any
village animal shelter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 93.37 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the village, and includes any local law enforcement agency or
other agency designated by the village to enforce the animal control laws of
the village.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this section or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals or seizure and impoundment of animals, and includes
any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties, in whole or
in part, include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
            1.   Has killed a human being;
            2.   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
            3.   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
            4.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer and
the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
         (b)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the individual
was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or has,
in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted
the dog.
         (c)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the injury,
damage or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520 or 28-521,
was committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, was
tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been observed
or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the dog, or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime.
         (d)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the dog is a
police animal as defined in Neb. RS 28-1008.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog or livestock. LIVESTOCK includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision
or department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, when unprovoked:
            1.   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment;
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
(Neb. RS 54-617)
   (B)   (1)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed
or neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
      (2)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or
leash.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) below or for a reasonable
veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such dog or
permit such dog to be transported to another county, city or village in this
state.
      (4)   An owner of a dangerous dog may transport such dog or permit such
dog to be transported to another county, city or village in this state for the
purpose of permanent relocation of the owner if the owner has obtained written
permission prior to such relocation from the animal control authority of the
county, city or village in which the owner resides and from the county, city or
village in which the owner will reside. Each animal control authority may grant
such permission based upon a reasonable evaluation of both the owner and the
dog, including if the owner has complied with the laws of this state and of the
county, city or village in which he or she resides with regards to dangerous
dogs after the dog was declared dangerous. An animal control authority shall
not grant permission under this section if the county, city or village has an
ordinance or resolution prohibiting the relocation of dangerous dogs. After the
permanent relocation, the animal control authority of the county, city or
village in which the owner resides shall monitor the owner and such dog for a
period of at least 30 days, but not to exceed 90 days, to ensure the owner’s
compliance with the laws of this state and of such county, city or village with
regards to dangerous dogs. Nothing in this division (B)(4) shall permit the
rescindment of the declaration of dangerous dog.
(Neb. RS 54-618)
   (C)   (1)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company or
corporation shall own, keep or harbor, or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her or it or under his, her or its charge or control, any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
      (2)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at least one foot. The
pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The pen or
structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the owner. The
owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the property where the dog
is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of public access and that
inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property. Each warning sign shall
be not less than ten inches by 12 inches and shall contain the words “warning”
and “dangerous animal” in high-contrast lettering at least three inches high on
a black background.
(Neb. RS 54-619)
   (D)   (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The owner shall
be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control
authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control
officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal
control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section.
(Neb. RS 54-620)
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane
manner.
(Neb. RS 54-621)
   (E)   If a dangerous dog of an owner with a prior conviction under this
section attacks or bites a human being or domestic animal, in addition to any
other penalty, the dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated by an animal
control authority, placed in quarantine for the proper length of time, and
thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Neb. RS 54-623)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Owner felony liability; serious bodily injury second offense, see Neb. RS
54-622.01
   Prior conviction; ownership of dangerous dog prohibited for ten years after,
see Neb. RS 54-623
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Peddlers and hawkers
   
110.02   Junk yards
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS.
   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous and unhealthful goods and
services, and to protect the public by maintaining records of the products sold
and the persons and companies responsible for such sales, all peddlers and
hawkers shall, before doing business within the municipality, register with the
Municipal Clerk. Nothing in this section shall apply to any person selling
produce raised within the county, or to wholesale salespeople soliciting
merchants directly, or to a representative of a nonprofit organization
soliciting on behalf of that organization. Any person granted a peddler and
hawker permit shall be subject to any fees and other rules and regulations
which the governing body deems appropriate for the purposes stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-201) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 110.02 JUNK YARDS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      JUNK. Includes scrap metals, scrap materials, whether they are liquids,
solids or gases, branches of trees and dismantled or wrecked automobiles,
tractors and machinery or parts thereof.
      JUNK COLLECTOR. Any person going from place to place, or house to house,
collecting or buying iron, copper, brass and zinc scraps, rags, bottles or old
paper, and selling the same to a junk dealer.
      JUNK DEALER. Any person engaged in the business of buying, selling,
receiving, collecting or dealing in metal scraps, scrap iron, metals of any
kind and in any form, bottles, rags and used tires; the dismantling or taking
apart of automobiles, other than for repair, or the wrecking of automobiles;
the storage of automobiles unfit for operation; the storage of automobile
bodies and parts thereof; the storage of automobiles or parts thereof kept for
salvage; the storage of scraps from automobiles; or the storage of iron, metals
or junk.
      JUNK YARD. Any place in the municipality where or from which any person
shall conduct, engage in or carry on the business of junk dealer, as herein
defined.
(Prior Code, § 10-301)
   (B)   Owner’s responsibility. The owner of the premises upon which a junk
yard is located shall be equally responsible with the operator, director or
employee thereof to see that the provisions of this code will not be violated.
In the event the provisions of this code are violated, he or she shall be
equally liable with the operator, director or employee for said violation of
the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-302)
   (C)   Nuisance. Any junk yard that becomes a danger to the public health, or
is not operated in the manner herein provided, shall be deemed to be a public
nuisance after said 30-day period of grace. The governing body shall then
request the Municipal Attorney to prosecute the owner, operator, director or
employee of said nuisance for violation of the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-303)
   (D)   Premises. Any area or parcel of land used as a junk yard shall not
have more than two entrances and two exits each of which shall not exceed 15
feet in width at the perimeter of the premises. Such premises or parcel of land
shall be enclosed with either a solid non-transparent wall or fence or link-
weave steel wire, or combination thereof, with a minimum height of seven feet
from the ground level, except for entrances and exits. The fence shall not
contain any poster or advertising of any kind except one sign of the licensee
not exceeding 100 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 10-304)
   (E)   Rodents. Any person who owns, operates, directs or is employed by a
junk yard shall make a diligent and continuous effort to exterminate all rats,
mice and other harmful rodents frequenting said junk yard.
(Prior Code, § 10-305)
   (F)   Location; fences. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
association, partnership or corporation to establish, keep, maintain, operate
or permit to exist a junk yard or to sell, barter, collect, deposit, store or
abandon junk on or from any lot, parcel or tract or in any building or
structure or any other place within or adjacent to the corporate limits of the
village closer than 300 feet from any building or structure used or held for
business, residential, church, hospital, educational, professional or
recreational purposes, except that any junk yard completely enclosed by a
continuous solid fence constructed of wood, brick, concrete, tile or similar
suitable solid material and at least six feet in height measured vertically
from the ground level may be located 150 feet or more from any building or
structure used or held for business, residential, church, hospital,
educational, professional or recreational purposes. Such distances shall be
computed by measurement of the straight horizontal distance between the two
closest points of the buildings, lots, tracts or parcels in question.
(Prior Code, § 10-306) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207 and 18-1720
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or refuses to comply with the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length or incorporated by
reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 10-601)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
111.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
111.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses Required
   
111.15   Manufacture, sale, delivery and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
111.16   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
111.17   Licensee requirements
   
111.18   Licenses; village powers and duties
   
111.19   Licensed premises; inspections
   
111.20   License renewal; village powers and duties
   
111.21   Catering licenses
   
111.22   Display of license
   
111.23   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
111.24   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent or employee
   
111.25   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
111.40   Location
   
111.41   Access to dwellings
   
111.42   Sanitary conditions
   
111.43   Hours of sale
   
111.44   Credit sales prohibited
   
111.45   Original package required
   
111.46   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
   
111.47   Warning sign
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.51 shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires
a different meaning.
§ 111.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift or procuring of, any alcoholic liquors to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the State Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08, it is
unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or
controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   (1)   (a)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing
or conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any
place open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume
alcoholic liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for
such premises pursuant to the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
         (b)   It is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor in any
bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place open to the
general public except as permitted by a license issued for such premises
pursuant to the Act.
      (2)   This division (B) does not apply to a retail licensee while
lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or
buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
§ 111.04 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and, in the judgment of the
officer, dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or not feasible, the
officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary to
preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than 24
hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   A law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT. Has the same meaning as found in
Neb. RS 71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or village-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** LICENSES REQUIRED ****
§ 111.15 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the State Liquor Control Act, Neb.
RS 53-101 et seq.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making, transport and delivery of wine, cider, beer, mead,
perry or other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables, honey or
grains or the product thereof by simple fermentation and without distillation:
         (a)    If made solely for the use of the maker and his or her family
and guests if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale; or
         (b)   If made without a permit for an exhibition, festival or tasting
competition, including exhibitions, festivals or tasting competitions that are
for nonprofit organizations such as fund-raising events, legally conducted
under the Act, if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale.
Alcoholic liquor served pursuant to this division (B)(2)(b) shall clearly be
identified as alcoholic liquor that was manufactured under an exception to the
rules and regulations of the Commission by signage, and the location of the
manufacturer shall be available upon request. Free or reduced admission to the
exhibition, festival or tasting competition shall not be considered a sale of
the alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion, on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing transactions
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.16 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., unless within specific
exemptions or exceptions provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship or cause to be
transported, imported, brought or shipped into this state for the personal use
of the possessor, his or her family, or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor
in excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above does not apply to a person importing
alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping license or its
equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for use by such
person’s family or guests, if the total amount imported by such person in any
one calendar year does not exceed 108 liters.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.17 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 28, Article 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11
or 12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another
state, except that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A)(5)
on May 18, 1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date
from retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred
prior to May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the State Liquor Control Act,
Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act, would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division shall not apply to railroad
licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division (A), an applicant whose spouse
is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the State Liquor
Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will not be
infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie evidence that
when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the applicant is also
ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie evidence shall be
overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the Commission:
            (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
            (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet the
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division (A) shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
§ 111.18 LICENSES; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., the
business of all retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
licensees carried on within the corporate limits of the village.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery of such application from the State Liquor Control
Commission notice and a copy of an application for a new license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail, a craft brewery license, or a microdistillery
license, the Board of Trustees may make and submit to the Commission
recommendations relative to the granting or refusal to grant the license to the
applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the village, has the following powers, functions and duties with
respect to retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS
53-101 et seq., to determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or
regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act or any ordinance,
resolution, rule or regulation adopted by the Board of Trustees has been or is
being violated, and at that time, examine the premises of the licensee in
connection with such determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines
that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated
pursuant to the Act or any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation adopted by
the local governing body has been or is being violated shall report such
violation in writing to the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the Village
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired, the Board
of Trustees may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
111.25, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., or any valid and
subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation duly enacted, adopted and
promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or
revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days after the date of
the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission. The Commission
shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an application in
Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the Board of Trustees shall receive evidence, either orally or
by affidavit, from the applicant and any other person bearing upon the
propriety of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of statewide circulation
or general circulation in the village one time not less than seven, and not
more than 14, days before the time of the hearing. The notice shall include,
but not be limited to, a statement that all persons desiring to give evidence
before the Board of Trustees in support of or in protest against the issuance
of the license may do so at the time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held
not more than 45 days after the date of receipt of the notice from the
Commission, and after the hearing, the Board of Trustees shall cause to be
recorded in the minute record of its proceedings a resolution recommending
either issuance or refusal of the license. The Village Clerk shall mail to the
Commission by first-class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which
shall state the cost of the published notice, except that failure to comply
with this provision shall not void any license issued by the Commission. If the
Commission refuses to issue such a license, the cost of publication of the
notice shall be paid by the Commission from the security for costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020, and for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and Neb. RS
53-129; and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.17. The local governing
body shall electronically notify the Commission within five days after
authorization of any permit pursuant to this division (C)(9).
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the State Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Village Clerk a retail, craft brewery or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if, by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124, the fee is
payable to the Village Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the Board of
Trustees upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of the notice of renewal, if applicable,
as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the village, except that
Class J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm
or corporation licensed under the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq., and doing business within the corporate limits of the village in any sum
which exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under
the Act to obtain that license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
§ 111.19 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall cause frequent inspection to be made on
the premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found
that any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the State
Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., or the rules and regulations of the
State Liquor Control Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the
purposes of this chapter or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled or
revoked after the licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her
defense.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may inspect a charter bus providing service
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public
Service Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the
consumption of alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21
years of age or older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has
stopped for the purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 111.20 LICENSE RENEWAL; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the State Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the Board of Trustees to require the
licensee to submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises
located in an area which is annexed to the village shall file a formal
application for a license, and while the application is pending, the licensee
may continue all license privileges until the original license expires or is
canceled or revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the
annexation date of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the
Commission for not more than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village, one time between January 10 and
January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the
right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license and each
bottle club license within the village, except that notice of the right of
automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall be published between the dates of
July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written protests to the issuance of
automatic renewal of a license are filed in the office of the Village Clerk by
three or more residents of the village on or before February 10, or August 10
for Class C licenses, the Board of Trustees shall hold a hearing to determine
whether continuation of the license should be allowed. Upon the conclusion of
any hearing required by this section, the Board of Trustees may request a
licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 111.21 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the State Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the Board of Trustees shall
process the application in the same manner as provided in §
111.18.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may impose an occupation tax on the business of
a catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of
the Board of Trustees. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a
catering license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
§ 111.22 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.,
shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain view in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.23 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.,
or any village ordinance, that owner, agent or other person shall be deemed
guilty of a violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the
licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.24 LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., or
any village ordinance by any officer, director, manager or other agent or
employee of any licensee, if the act is committed or omission is made with the
authorization, knowledge or approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held
to be the act of the employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall
be punishable in the same manner as if the act or omission had been done or
omitted by the licensee personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.25 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a
complaint with the Board of Trustees stating that any retail licensee or bottle
club licensee subject to the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees has been or
is violating any provision of the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq., or the rules or regulations issued pursuant to the Act. The complaint
shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the Board of Trustees and shall
be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining. The complaint shall state
the particular provision, rule or regulation believed to have been violated and
the facts in detail upon which belief is based.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees is satisfied that the complaint substantially
charges a violation, and that from the facts alleged, there is reasonable cause
for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within ten days from the
date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice upon the licensee of
the time and place of the hearing and of the particular charge in the
complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the Board of
Trustees within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by resolution
thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the final order for the purpose of
appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission as provided in Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
**** RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS ****
§ 111.40 LOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license
shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle
club within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home for indigent
persons or for veterans and their wives or children.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to any location within such
distance of 150 feet:
         (a)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the State Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to the making of application for a license;
         (b)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs or to restaurants, food shops or other places where the sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
         (c)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb.
RS 53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold for consumption on the premises
within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university in the state,
except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university, but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F) below, the Commission may
waive the 300-foot restriction in division (C) above, taking into consideration
one or more of the following:
      (1)   The impact of retail sales of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises on the academic mission of the college or university;
      (2)   The impact on students and prospective students if such sales were
permitted on or near campus;
      (3)   The impact on economic development opportunities located within or
in proximity to the campus; and
      (4)   The waiver would likely reduce the number of applications for
special designated licenses requested by the college or university or its
designee.
   (E)   (1)   To apply for a waiver under this section, the applicant shall
submit a written application to the Commission. The Commission shall notify the
governing body of the affected college or university when the Commission
receives an application for a waiver.
      (2)   The application shall include:
         (a)   The address of the location for which the waiver is requested;
         (b)   The name and type of business for which the waiver is requested;
and
         (c)   A description of the justification for the waiver explaining how
the proposed location complies with the findings prescribed in division (D)
above.
   (F)   The Commission shall not waive the 300-foot restriction in division
(C) above without written approval from the governing body of the college or
university or its designee if the physical location of the property which is
the subject of the requested waiver is:
      (1)   Surrounded by property owned by the college or university,
including any public or private easement, street or right-of-way adjacent to
the property owned by the college or university; or
      (2)   Adjacent to property on two or more sides owned by the college or
university, including any public or private easement, street or right-of-way
adjacent to the property owned by the college or university.
   (G)   No bottle club shall be operated within 300 feet from the campus of
any college or university in the state.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.41 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family, or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.42 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the Board of Trustees or the village
police may make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall
be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report
concerning the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 111.43 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFF-SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail in the original container
for consumption off the premises of the licensed establishment.
      ON-SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold by the drink for consumption on the
premises of the licensed establishment.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or his or her agent
to sell any alcoholic beverages within the municipality except during the
following hours.
 
Hours of Sale
Alcoholic Liquors (including beer and wine)
All days
Off-sale 7:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
On-sale  7:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
 
      (2)   (a)   Any licensed person or licensed establishment wishing to sell
alcoholic liquors on Sundays must abide by their licensing requirements. This
allowance to sell alcoholic liquors shall be in regard to licensed persons or
establishments within the village.
         (b)   Any licensed person or licensed establishment wishing to sell
alcoholic liquors until 2:00 a.m. must abide by their licensing requirements.
This allowance to sell alcoholic liquors shall be in regard to licensed persons
or establishments with in the village.
   (C)   No person shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed premises
for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed in this
section for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the premises.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit licensed premises from being
open for other business on days and hours during which the sale or dispensing
of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-116) (Ord. 406, passed 4-11-2011; Ord. 431, passed 3-14-2016)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 111.44 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares or merchandise or in payment for any services rendered, and if any
person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to be
created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.45 ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks or other
containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages. Nothing in
this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic
liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.46 KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the
date of the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s name and
address and the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license,
state identification card, tribal enrollment card, as defined in Neb. RS 28-
1202.03, or military identification, if the military identification contains a
picture of the purchaser, together with the purchaser’s signature. This record
shall be on a form prescribed by the State Liquor Control Commission and shall
be kept by the licensee at the retail establishment where the purchase was made
for not less than six months. The records kept pursuant to this section shall
be available for inspection by any law enforcement officer during normal
business hours or at any other reasonable time. Any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.02)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters or removes the keg
identification number from a container described in division (A) above, or is
in possession of a container described in division (A) above with an altered or
removed keg identification number after the container has been taken from the
licensed premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the
licensed premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted, shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.47 WARNING SIGN.
   Any retail licensee shall post in a conspicuous place a sign available from
the State Liquor Control Commission which clearly reads as follows.
 
Warning: Drinking alcoholic beverages during pregnancy can cause birth defects
 
(Prior Code, § 10-120)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Offenses Against Public Order
   
130.001   Disorderly conduct
   
130.002   Obstruction of public ways
   
130.003   Disturbing the peace
Offenses Against Public Health and Safety
   
130.015   Maintaining a nuisance
   
130.016   Prohibited fences
   
130.017   Raising or producing stagnant water
Substance Offenses
   
130.030   Drinking on public property; open beverage container
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
130.045   Abandoned automobiles
   
130.046   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
Weapons Offenses
   
130.060   Discharge of firearms
   
130.061   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
Offenses Against Public Morals
   
130.075   Sexual predator residency restrictions
   
130.076   Abortion
 
   
130.999   Penalty
**** OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER ****
§ 130.001 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the village by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting or using obscene or profane language in the
streets or other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by
indecent or disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noise, riots and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.002 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 130.003 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) Penalty, see §
130.999
**** OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY ****
§ 130.015 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of maintaining a nuisance if he or she
erects, keeps up or continues and maintains any nuisance to the injury of any
part of the citizens of this village.
   (B)   The erecting, continuing, using or maintaining of any building,
structure or other place for the exercise of any trade, employment, manufacture
or other business which, by occasioning noxious exhalations or noisome or
offensive smells, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort or
property of individuals or the public; the obstructing or impeding, without
legal authority, of the passage of any navigable river, harbor or collection of
water; or the corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure of any watercourse,
stream or water; or unlawfully diverting any such watercourse from its natural
course or state to the injury or prejudice of others; and the obstructing or
encumbering by fences, buildings, structures or otherwise of any of the public
highways or streets or alleys of the village, shall be deemed nuisances.
   (C)   A person guilty of erecting, continuing, using, maintaining or causing
any such nuisance shall be guilty of a violation of this section, and in every
such case, the offense shall be construed and held to have been committed in
any county whose inhabitants are or have been injured or aggrieved thereby.
   (D)   The court, in cases of conviction of such offense, shall order every
such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1321) Penalty, see §
130.999
Cross-reference:
   Board of Health, see §
32.01
   Health and safety nuisances, see
Chapter 91
   Health regulations generally, see §
91.01
§ 130.016 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits where
the fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on barbed wire fences, see Neb. RS 39-307
§ 130.017 RAISING OR PRODUCING STAGNANT WATER.
   Whoever shall build, erect, continue or keep up any dam or other obstruction
in any river or stream of water in the village and thereby raise an artificial
pond or produce stagnant waters, which shall be manifestly injurious to the
public health and safety shall be guilty of an offense, and the court shall,
moreover, order every such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1303) Penalty, see §
130.999
**** SUBSTANCE OFFENSES ****
§ 130.030 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
         (a)   Beer, ale, porter, stout and other similar fermented beverages,
including sake or similar products, of any name or description, containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt wholly or in part,
or from any substitute therefor;
         (b)   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume;
         (c)   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced; and
         (d)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
      HIGHWAY. A road or street, including the entire area within the right-of-
way.
      LIMOUSINE. A luxury vehicle used to provide prearranged passenger
transportation on a dedicated basis at a premium fare that has a seating
capacity of at least five and not more than 14 persons behind the driver with a
physical partition separating the driver seat from the passenger compartment.
LIMOUSINE does not include taxicabs; hotel or airport buses or shuttles; or
buses.
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-
123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(c), any bottle, can or other receptacle:
         (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
         (b)   1.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
            2.   The contents of which are partially removed.
      PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while
the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to
the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for any
person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle to possess an open alcoholic
beverage container while the motor vehicle is located in a public parking area
or on any highway in this village.
   (C)   Except as provided in §
111.03 or division (D) below, it is unlawful for any person to consume an
alcoholic beverage:
      (1)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this village; or
      (2)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this village.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to persons who are passengers, but
not drivers, of a limousine or bus being used in a charter or special party
service as defined by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
state’s Public Service Commission and subject to Neb. RS Chapter 75, Article 3.
      (2)   Such passengers may possess open alcoholic beverage containers and
may consume alcoholic beverages while such limousine or bus is in a public
parking area or on any highway in this village if:
         (a)   The driver of the limousine or bus is prohibited from consuming
alcoholic liquor; and
         (b)   Alcoholic liquor is not present in any area that is readily
accessible to the driver while in the driver’s seat, including any compartments
in such area.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.08) Penalty, see §
130.999
**** MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES ****
§ 130.045 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended with no license plates or valid “In
Transit” stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed
thereto for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A mobile home is an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this division (A).
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley or park
or other state, county or village-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid “In Transit” stickers issued pursuant to
Neb. RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration
the condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall immediately vest in
the village. Any certificate of title issued under this division (B) to the
village shall be issued at no cost to the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) above, the village
shall make an inquiry concerning the last registered owner of such vehicle as
follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The village shall notify the last registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the village 30 days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) above
also notifies the village that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall
also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle
shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
village:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the village
will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) above, the village may retain for use, sell or auction the abandoned
vehicle. If the village has determined that the vehicle should be retained for
use, the village shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed,
publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the village intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its
use and that title will vest in the village 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a village law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last registered
owners, if any, and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that
the vehicle is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle
is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days, the
agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (D) shall not apply to motor vehicles that are
subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   (a)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered
owner of a motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this
division (D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the
vehicle when it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor
related to the offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle
into custody.
         (b)   If a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle
when it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is
not convicted, the registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the
storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division (E)
(2) is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 through 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private
towing service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model and color of the vehicle, and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division
(E) is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 through 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private
towing service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For the purpose of this section, a TRESPASSING VEHICLE is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.02)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(a)5. or (A)(b)4. above to be removed from public property in this village,
the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state agency
caused an abandoned vehicle described in division (A)(a)1., (A)(a)2., (A)(a)3.
or (A)(a)4. or (A)(b)1., (A)(b)2. or (A)(b)3. above to be removed from public
property in this village, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the
village, which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the village’s
custody, less any expenses incurred by the village, shall be held by the
village without interest for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such
vehicle for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period,
the proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
village, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the village or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A)(a)1., (A)(a)2., (A)(a)3. or (A)(a)4. or (A)(b)1., (A)
(b)2. or (A)(b)3. above.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the village or appropriate
state agency shall destroy, deface or remove any part of a vehicle which is
left unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates
affixed or which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division (J) shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (K)   The last registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the village for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 130.046 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the village,
other than village property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or
discarded vehicle to remain on that property longer than 30 days.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or
public property for any length of time, provided that this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle bearing a valid “In Transit” sticker;
      (2)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (3)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when the vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the village.
   (C)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   “In Transit” stickers, see Neb. RS 60-376
**** WEAPONS OFFENSES ****
§ 130.060 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol or other
fowling piece within the municipality, except that nothing in this section
shall be construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations, if
the persons so discharging firearms have written permission from the governing
body. The governing body may also issue written permission to a veterinarian
clinic or to a butcher shop (also known as a meat market), for the sole purpose
of butchering an animal; provided, that the business has obtained all necessary
and required certifications to be a butcher shop. If said permission is given
to a butcher shop business, it will be required that the firing or discharging
of said firearm be done inside the business.
(Prior Code, § 6-305) (Ord. 491, passed 5-12-2025) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.061 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the village.
Penalty, see §
130.999
**** OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS ****
§ 130.075 SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Finding and intent.
      (1)   The state legislature has found that certain sex offenders present
a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons’ place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act.
      (2)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
      (3)   It is the intent of this section to serve the village’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the village by creating certain areas around locations where
children regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual
predators cannot reside.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
      RESIDE. Sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include more than one
location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives or dwells, which may
include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
      SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in
Neb. RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to
the Sex Offender Registration Act.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has committed an aggravated offense as defined
in Neb. RS 29-4001.01, and who has victimized a person 18 years of age or
younger.
   (C)   Sexual predator residency restrictions; exceptions.
      (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
      (2)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance of separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer
boundary line of the school or child care facility.
      (3)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
         (a)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or political subdivision;
         (b)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved
from that residence; or
         (c)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or
child care facility triggering the restriction was established after the
initial date of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Ord. 412, passed 6-11-2012) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Child Care Licensing Act, see Neb. RS 71-1908 et seq.
   Sex Offender Registration Act, see Neb. RS 29-4001 to 29-4014
   Sexual Predator Residency Restriction Act, see Neb. RS 29-4015 et seq.
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 29-4001 et seq.
§ 130.076 ABORTION.
   (A)   Findings. The Board of Trustees finds that:
      (a)   Human life begins at conception;
      (b)   Abortion is a murderous act of violence that purposefully and
knowingly terminates an unborn human life;
      (c)   Unborn human beings are entitled to the full and equal protection
of the laws that prohibit violence against other human beings;
      (d)   The Supreme Court’s ruling in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health
Organization, No. 19-1392, correctly overruled the Court’s lawless and
unconstitutional pronouncements in Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113 (1973), and
Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pennsylvania v. Casey, 505 U.S. 833 (1992),
which had invented and perpetuated a supposed constitutional right to abortion
that cannot be found anywhere in the language of the Constitution;
      (e)   The ruling in Dobbs restores the prerogatives of state and local
governments to regulate and prohibit abortion as they see fit;
      (f)   Abortion providers and their enablers should be regarded as
murderers and treated and ostracized as such; and
      (g)   To maintain the peace, good government and welfare of the village,
the Board of Trustees finds it necessary to outlaw abortion within the village.
(See Neb. RS 17-207(11).)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABORTION. The act of using or prescribing an instrument, a drug, a
medicine or any other substance, device or means with the intent to cause the
death of an unborn child of a woman known to be pregnant. The term does not
include birth-control devices or oral contraceptives, and it does not include
Plan B, morning-after pills or emergency contraception. An act is not an
ABORTION if the act is done with the intent to:
         (a)   Save the life or preserve the health of an unborn child;
         (b)   Remove a dead, unborn child whose death was caused by accidental
miscarriage; or
         (c)   Remove an ectopic pregnancy.
      ABORTION-INDUCING DRUGS. Includes mifepristone, misoprostol and any drug
or medication that is used to terminate the life of an unborn child. The term
does not include birth-control devices or oral contraceptives, and it does not
include Plan B, morning-after pills or emergency contraception. The term also
does not include drugs or medication that are possessed or distributed for a
purpose that does not include the termination of a pregnancy.
      ABORTIONIST. Any person, medically trained or otherwise, who causes the
death of the child in the womb. The term does not apply to any pharmacist or
pharmaceutical worker selling birth-control devices or oral contraceptives,
including Plan B, morning-after pills or emergency contraception. The term
includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Obstetricians/gynecologists and other medical professionals who
perform abortions of any kind;
         (b)   Any other medical professional who performs abortions of any
kind;
         (c)   Any personnel from Planned Parenthood or other pro-abortion
organizations who perform abortions of any kind; and
          (d)   Any remote personnel who instruct abortive women to perform
self-abortions at home.
      CHILD. A natural person from the moment of conception until 18 years of
age.
      MAYOR. The Board Chairperson of the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Arnold, Nebraska.
      UNBORN CHILD. A natural person from the moment of conception who has not
yet left the womb.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Arnold, Nebraska.
   (C)   Declarations.
      (1)   The village is declared to be a Sanctuary for the Unborn.
      (2)   Abortion at all times and at all stages of pregnancy is declared to
be an unlawful act, subject to the affirmative defenses described in division
(D) below.
      (3)   Abortion-inducing drugs are declared to be contraband, and the
village declares the possession of abortion-inducing drugs within village
limits to be an unlawful act.
      (4)   The village declares that all municipalities within the state, who
wish to protect pregnant mothers and their unborn children within their
communities, should join the village in passing an enforceable ordinance
outlawing abortion within their jurisdiction.
      (5)   The village further declares that the village commits to stand with
every village, city, county and state which chooses to pass laws which protect
pregnant mothers and their unborn children from the violence of abortion.
   (D)   Unlawful acts.
      (1)   Abortion. It shall be unlawful for any person to procure or perform
an abortion of any type and at any stage of pregnancy in the village.
      (2)   Aiding or abetting an abortion. It shall be unlawful for any person
to knowingly aid or abet an abortion that occurs in the village. This section
does not prohibit referring a patient to have an abortion which takes place
outside the territorial boundaries of the village. The prohibition in this
section includes, but is not limited to, the following acts:
         (a)   Knowingly providing transportation to or from an abortion
provider;
         (b)   Giving instructions over the telephone, the internet or any
other medium of communication regarding self-administered abortion;
         (c)   Providing money with the knowledge that it will be used to pay
for an abortion or the costs associated with procuring an abortion; and/or
         (d)   Coercing a pregnant mother to have an abortion against her will.
      (3)   Abortion-inducing drugs. It shall be unlawful for any person to
possess or distribute abortion-inducing drugs in the village.
      (4)   Exceptions.
         (a)   No provision of this division (D) may be construed to prohibit
any action which occurs outside of the jurisdiction of the village.
         (b)   No provision of this division (D) may be construed to prohibit
any conduct protected by the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, as made
applicable to state and local governments through the Supreme Court’s
interpretation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
   (E)   Severability.
      (1)   Mindful of Leavitt v. Jane L., 518 U.S. 137 (1996), in which in the
context of determining the severability of a state statute regulating abortion
the United States Supreme Court held that an explicit statement of legislative
intent is controlling, it is the intent of the Board of Trustees that every
provision, section, division, sentence, clause, phrase or word in this section,
and every application of the provisions in this section, are severable from
each other. If any application of any provision in this section to any person,
group of persons or circumstances is found by a court to be invalid or
unconstitutional, then the remaining applications of that provision to all
other persons and circumstances shall be severed and may not be affected. All
constitutionally valid applications of this section shall be severed from any
applications that a court finds to be invalid, leaving the valid applications
in force, because it is the Board of Trustees’ intent and priority that the
valid applications be allowed to stand alone. Even if a reviewing court finds a
provision of this section to impose an undue burden in a large or substantial
fraction of relevant cases, the applications that do not present an undue
burden shall be severed from the remaining applications and shall remain in
force, and shall be treated as if the Board of Trustees had enacted an
ordinance limited to the persons, group of persons or circumstances for which
the ordinance’s application does not present an undue burden. The Board of
Trustees further declares that it would have passed this section, and each
provision, section, division, sentence, clause, phrase or word, and all
constitutional applications of this section, irrespective of the fact that any
provision, section, division, sentence, clause, phrase or word, or applications
of this section, were to be declared unconstitutional or to represent an undue
burden.
      (2)   If any court declares or finds a provision in this section facially
unconstitutional, when there are discrete applications of that provision that
can be enforced against a person/group of persons or circumstances without
violating the Constitution, then those applications shall be severed from all
remaining applications of the provision, and the provision shall be interpreted
as if the Board of Trustees had enacted a provision limited to the persons,
group of persons or circumstances for which the provision’s application will
not violate the Constitution.
      (3)   If any provision of this section is found by any court to be
unconstitutionally vague, then the applications of that provision that do not
present constitutional vagueness problems shall be severed and remain in force,
consistent with the declarations of the Board of Trustees’ intent in division
(E)(1) above.
      (4)   No court may decline to enforce the severability requirements in
divisions (E)(1), (E)(2) and (E)(3) above on the grounds that severance would
“rewrite” the ordinance or involve the court in legislative or lawmaking
activity. A court that declines to enforce or enjoins a local official from
enforcing a subset of an ordinance’s applications is never “rewriting” an
ordinance, as the ordinance continues to say exactly what it said before. A
judicial injunction or declaration of unconstitutionality is nothing more than
a non-enforcement edict that can always be vacated by later courts if they have
a different understanding of what the Constitution requires; it is not a formal
amendment of the language in a statute or ordinance. A judicial injunction or
declaration of unconstitutionality no more “rewrites” an ordinance than a
decision by the executive not to enforce a duly enacted ordinance in a limited
and defined set of circumstances.
      (5)   If any federal or state court ignores or declines to enforce the
requirements of division (E)(1), (E)(2), (E)(3) or (E)(4) above or holds a
provision of this section invalid on its face after failing to enforce the
severability requirements of divisions (E)(1), (E)(2) and (E)(3) above, for any
reason whatsoever, then the Mayor shall hold delegated authority to issue a
saving construction of the ordinance that avoids the constitutional problems or
other problems identified by the federal or state court, while enforcing the
provisions of the ordinance to the maximum possible extent. The saving
construction issued by the Mayor shall carry the same force of law as an
ordinance; it shall represent the authoritative construction of this section in
both federal and state judicial proceedings; and it shall remain in effect
until the court ruling that declares invalid or enjoins the enforcement of the
original provision in the ordinance is overruled, vacated or reversed.
      (6)   The Mayor must issue the saving construction described in division
(E)(5) above within 20 days after a judicial ruling that declares invalid or
enjoins the enforcement of a provision of this section after failing to enforce
the severability requirements of divisions (E)(1), (E)(2) and (E)(3) above. If
the Mayor fails to issue the saving construction required by division (E)(5)
above within 20 days after a judicial ruling that declares invalid or enjoins
the enforcement of a provision of this section after failing to enforce the
severability requirements of division (E)(1), (E)(2) or (E)(3) above, or if the
Mayor’s saving construction fails to enforce the provisions of the ordinance to
the maximum possible extent permitted by the Constitution or other superseding
legal requirements, as construed by the federal or state judiciaries, then any
person may petition for a writ of mandamus requiring the Mayor to issue the
saving construction described in division (E)(5) above.
(Ord. 472, passed 11-14-2022) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates or refuses to comply with the enforcement of
any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length or incorporated
by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
(Prior Code, § 6-401)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-402)
   (C)   A person who violates §
130.075 shall be punished as provided generally in the code.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) below, any person,
corporation or entity who commits an unlawful act described in §
130.076(D) shall be subject to a fine of $500. See Neb. RS 17-207(11).
      (2)   Under no circumstance may the penalty described in division (D)(1)
above be imposed on the mother of the unborn child that has been aborted.
       (3)   Mistake of law shall not be a defense to the penalty established
in division (D)(1) above.
(Ord. 412, passed 6-11-2012; Ord. 472, passed 11-14-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTIES
      
152.   TREES
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Comprehensive plan adopted
Moving of Buildings
   
150.15   Regulations
   
150.16   Deposit
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.30   Definition
   
150.31   Prohibitions
   
150.32   Determination; notice
   
150.33   Appeal; demolition; duty to inform county
   
150.34   Emergency
   
150.35   Special assessments
 
   
150.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 150.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   The comprehensive plan and the housing study provided herein for the
village, dated 2023, prepared by Hanna: Keelan Associates, P.C., recommended by
the Village Planning Commission on March 28, 2024, and approved by the Village
Board of Trustees on April 8, 2024, is hereby adopted as the official
Comprehensive Plan for the Village of Arnold, Nebraska.
   (B)   Three copies of said document are on file and shall be kept in the
office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 480, passed 4-8-2024)
**** MOVING OF BUILDINGS ****
§ 150.15 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to move any
building or structure within the village without a written permit to do so.
Application may be made to the Village Clerk and shall include the present and
future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the equipment
to be used and such other information as the Board of Trustees may require. The
application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the County
Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the building is presently located.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall refer the application to the Board of Trustees
or its designee for approval of the proposed route over which the building is
to be moved. Upon approval, the Village Clerk shall issue the permit, provided
that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check or cash in an amount
set by motion of the Board of Trustees, and conditioned upon moving the
building without doing damage to any private or village property, is filed with
the Village Clerk prior to the granting of any permit.
   (C)   No moving permit shall be required to move a building that is ten feet
wide or less, and 20 feet long or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet
high or less.
   (D)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using or operating the poles, wires or line shall,
upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by disconnecting
the poles, wires or line relative to the building moving operation. All expense
of the disconnection, removal or related work shall be paid in advance by the
licensee unless the disconnection or work is furnished on different terms as
provided in the company’s franchise.
   (E)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes or wire belonging to the village, notice in
writing of the time and route of the building moving operation shall be given
to the various officials in charge of the village utility departments, who
shall proceed on behalf of the village and at the expense of the mover to make
such disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector or other designated official shall inspect the premises and report to
the Village Clerk as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from the
relocation and whether any village laws have been violated during the
operation. Upon a satisfactory report from the Building Inspector or other
designated official, the Village Clerk shall return the corporate surety bond,
cash or check deposited by the applicant. In the event the basement, foundation
or portion thereof is not properly filled, covered or in a clean and sanitary
condition, the Board of Trustees may apply the money deposited for the purpose
of defraying the expense of correcting the condition. If the expense of
correcting the hazardous condition is greater than the amount of the deposit
set by the Board of Trustees, the Board of Trustees may recover the excess
expense by civil suit or otherwise as prescribed by law.
**** UNSAFE BUILDINGS ****
§ 150.30 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Includes any building, shed, fence or other human-made
structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which, because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper
repair or any other cause, is especially liable to fire and constitutes or
creates a fire hazard; or
         (c)   Which, by reason of faulty construction or any other cause, is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
the structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the village is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an
unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while it
is in an unsafe condition.
Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 150.32 DETERMINATION; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Board of Trustees or its designee has made a
determination that a building or other structure in the village is an unsafe
building, it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to post the property
accordingly and to file a copy of such determination or resolution in the
office of the County Register of Deeds to be recorded.
(Neb. RS 18-1722.01)
      (2)   The Clerk shall also serve written notice upon the owner and any
occupant of the building or other structure by certified mail or personal
service.
   (B)   (1)   This notice shall state that the building has been declared to
be in an unsafe condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or
remedied by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that
the condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt.
      (2)   The notice may be in the following terms.
 
   “To __________________________________ (owner-occupant of premises), of the
premises known and described as _________________________________.
 
   “You are hereby notified that _______________________________ (describe building)
on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe building and a
nuisance after inspection by ________________________________. The causes for this
decision are ________________________ (here insert the facts as to the dangerous
condition).
 
   “You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from the
date of receipt of this notice or the village will proceed to do so. Appeal of this
determination may be made to the Board of Trustees, acting as the Board of Appeals,
by filing with the Village Clerk within ten days from the date of receipt of this
notice a request for a hearing.”
 
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied within 60 days
from the date of receipt of the notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time
when this notice is served upon that person by personal service or certified
mail, the Building Inspector or other designated official may, upon the orders
of the Board of Trustees, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the
unsafe building.
§ 150.33 APPEAL; DEMOLITION; DUTY TO INFORM COUNTY.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the
Village Clerk request a hearing before the Board of Trustees, sitting as the
Board of Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or
demolished. The Board of Trustees shall grant such a hearing within ten days
from the date of receiving the request. A written notice of the Board of
Trustees’ decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by
certified mail.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60
days from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and
removal. If, after the 60-day period, the owner has not begun work, the Board
of Trustees shall proceed to cause the work to be done, except that the
property owner may appeal the decision to the appropriate court for
adjudication, during which proceedings the decision of the Board of Trustees
shall be stayed.
   (C)   Any village police officer or member of the Board of Trustees shall at
once inform the County Treasurer of the removal or demolition of, or a levy of
attachment upon, any item of real property known to him or her.
(Neb. RS 77-1725.01)
§ 150.34 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice to do so, the village
may summarily repair or demolish and remove that building or structure.
§ 150.35 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the village to repair, rehabilitate or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is an unsafe building or
structure and a public nuisance, the village may proceed with the work
specified in the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of this
work shall be transmitted to the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-1722)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates or refuses to comply with the enforcement of
any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length or incorporated
by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
(Prior Code, § 9-301)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 9-302)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
CHAPTER 151: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Village Property
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Maintenance and control
   
151.03   Regulation of snow, ice and other encroachments
   
151.04   Guttering and eave spouts
   
151.05   Prohibited obstructions
   
151.06   Public streets and sidewalks; sale of services or goods
Sale and Acquisition of Property; Public Works
   
151.20   Sale and conveyance; real property
   
151.21   Acquisition or construction of public buildings; election requirements
   
151.22   Acquisition of real property; appraisal
   
151.23   Acquisition of real property; public meeting; access for recreational
use
   
151.24   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
Sidewalks
   
151.35   Requirement to keep clean
   
151.36   Construction and repair at village direction
   
151.37   Construction by petition
Streets and Alleys
   
151.50   Opening, widening, improving or vacating
   
151.51   Excavation
   
151.52   Driving stakes
   
151.53   Mixing concrete
   
151.54   Harmful liquids
   
151.55   Construction notice
 
   
151.99   Penalty
**** VILLAGE PROPERTY ****
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF STREET OFFICIAL. The village official with general charge, direction
and control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for
streets and another official is responsible for sidewalks, CHIEF STREET
OFFICIAL shall mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term is
used.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curblines and adjacent
property lines.
§ 151.02 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within
the village and shall cause such highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public
squares and commons to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 151.03 REGULATION OF SNOW, ICE AND OTHER ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   The village shall have the power to prevent and remove all
encroachments, including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon
all sidewalks, streets, avenues, alleys and other village property.
(Neb. RS 17-557)
   (B)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after five days’
notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such notice, to
remove all encroachments from sidewalks as provided in division (A) above, the
village, through the proper officers, may cause such encroachments to be
removed, and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the Street Fund. The
Board of Trustees shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the
encroachment against the abutting property as a special assessment. The special
assessment shall be known as a special sidewalk assessment and, together with
the cost of notice, shall be levied and collected as a special assessment in
addition to the general revenue taxes and shall be subject to the same
penalties as other special assessments and shall draw interest from the date of
the assessment. Upon payment of the assessment, the assessment shall be
credited to the Street Fund.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
§ 151.04 GUTTERING AND EAVE SPOUTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any dwelling house
or business building within the limits of the village where the dwelling or
building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper guttering and
eave spouts to receive the wastewaters that collect on the sidewalks and
streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or business building
shall be constructed to drain into the alleys or shall be buried beneath the
sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be impossible to
drain the eave spouts into the alley.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or encumber, by
fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys
or sidewalks.
   (B)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when
the owner or occupant of the adjacent property permits or suffers to remain on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground
and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting property,
and interfering with the use, making or construction of any public improvement,
or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wire or pipe, shall be
deemed an obstruction. Such trees and shrubs and their roots may be removed by
the village at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the trees or
shrubs are partially or wholly located if the owner fails or neglects, after
notice, to do so.
   (D)   When any obstruction described in this section is determined to exist,
the village may proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent
to the sidewalk space as provided in §
91.16.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 PUBLIC STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; SALE OF SERVICES OR GOODS.
   The Board of Trustees may permit the public streets and sidewalks within the
municipal limits to be occupied and used under a lease, license or other
permission by a person, business or others for the sale of services or goods,
and to permit the placement of nonpermanent sidewalk cafés, tables, chairs,
benches and other temporary improvements from which such sales can be
transacted on the public streets and sidewalks.
(Neb. RS 19-4301(1)) (Prior Code, § 8-109)
**** SALE AND ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS ****
§ 151.20 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) below, the power of the village to
convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park purposes and
public squares, except real property used in the operation of public utilities,
shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at public auction or by
sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of such sales, except that
the property shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a minimum price for real property
at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) above and the terms of
such sales shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in a
legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village.
   (D)   (1)   If, within 30 days after the third publication of the notice, a
remonstrance petition against the sale conforms to Neb. RS 32-628; is signed by
registered voters of the village equal in number to 30% of the registered
voters of the village voting at the last regular village election held therein;
and is filed with the Board of Trustees, that property shall not then, nor
within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the petition falls
upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected
within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely if filed or
postmarked on or before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Board of Trustees, with the aid
and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall determine
the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The Board of
Trustees shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by certified
mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the Board of Trustees a written receipt that the petition
is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the Board of Trustees. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
also compare the signer’s printed name, street and number or voting precinct,
and village or post office address with the voter registration records to
determine whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address
shall be presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
village or post office address match the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the Board of Trustees. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the Board of
Trustees finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and
addresses with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to
determine the validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition and the
qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the petition and that only one person is registered by that name, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification
under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count
only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the
Board of Trustees the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a
valid petition. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
petition and the certifications to the Board of Trustees within 40 days after
the receipt of the remonstrance from the Board of Trustees. The delivery shall
be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by certified mail,
return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature page
shall be counted.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 30 days after the receipt of
the petition and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The Board of Trustees shall, following the hearing,
vote on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the petition
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the village may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with
the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) above shall not apply to the sale of real
property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real property the
total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following passage of the
resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be
posted in three prominent places within the village for a period of not less
than seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a
general description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and
conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be
required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01)
§ 151.21 ACQUISITION OR CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS; ELECTION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect, and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, village building or community house
for housing village enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and other
public buildings, including the construction of buildings authorized to be
constructed by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article 14, and including the construction
of buildings to be leased, in whole or in part, by the village to any other
political or governmental subdivision of the state authorized by law to lease
such buildings, and maintain, manage and operate the same for the benefit of
the inhabitants of the village.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the village at a general village election or at an election duly called for
that purpose, or as set forth in division (D) below, and be adopted by a
majority of the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. RS 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, and no
election shall be required to approve the purchase or construction unless,
within 30 days after the publication of the notice, a petition against the
purchase or construction is signed by registered voters of the village equal in
number to 15% of the registered voters of the village voting at the last
regular village election held therein and is filed with the Board of Trustees.
If the date for filing the petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the
filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day. If a petition with the necessary number of qualified signatures
is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the voters of the village
at a general village election or a special election duly called for that
purpose. If the purchase or construction is not approved, the property involved
shall not then, nor within one year following the election, be purchased or
constructed; or
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may proceed without providing the notice and
right of petition required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the Board of Trustees after notice and public hearing as
provided in §
151.23.
(Neb. RS 17-953.01)
   (D)   (1)   (a)   The Board of Trustees, adopting the proposition to make
such purchase or erect such building or buildings for the purposes set forth in
division (A) above, shall have the power to borrow money and pledge the
property and credit of the village upon its negotiable bonds. No such bonds
shall be issued until after the same have been authorized by a majority vote of
the electors voting on the proposition of their issuance, at a general village
election or at a special election called for the submission of such
proposition.
         (b)   The question of such purchase or erection of such building or
buildings, as set forth in division (A) above, and the question of the issuance
of the negotiable bonds referred to in this division (D) may be submitted as
one question at a general village or special election if so ordered by
resolution or ordinance.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the election shall be given by
publication in some legal newspaper printed in or of general circulation in the
village three successive weeks immediately prior thereto.
      (3)   No such election for the issuance of such bonds shall be called
until a petition therefor signed by at least 10% of the legal voters of the
village has been presented to the Board of Trustees. The number of voters
voting at the last regular village election prior to the presenting of the
petition shall be deemed the number of votes in the village for the purpose of
determining the sufficiency of the petition.
      (4)   The question of bond issues for such purpose in the village when
defeated shall not be resubmitted for six months from and after the date of
such election.
      (5)   When the building to be constructed is to be used by the state or
its agency or agencies under a lease authorized by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article
14, or the building is to be leased by any other political or governmental
subdivision of the state, when the combined area of the building to be leased
by the state or its agency or agencies and the political or governmental
subdivision of the state is more than 50% of the area of the building, and when
such sum does not exceed $2,000,000, then no such vote of the electors will be
required.
(Neb. RS 17-954)
§ 151.22 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the village shall not purchase,
lease-purchase or acquire for consideration real property having an estimated
value of $100,000 or more unless an appraisal of such property has been
performed by a certified real property appraiser.
(Neb. RS 13-403)
§ 151.23 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; PUBLIC MEETING; ACCESS FOR RECREATIONAL
USE.
   (A)   The village shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the Board of Trustees has authorized the acquisition
by action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
   (B)   The village shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners. The right of
access granted to the public for recreational use shall meet or exceed such
right held by a private landowner adjacent to the real property.
(Neb. RS 18-1755)
§ 151.24 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and Neb. RS 81-3449
and 81-3453, the village shall not engage in the construction of any public
works involving architecture or engineering unless the plans, specifications
and estimates have been prepared and the construction has been observed by an
architect, a professional engineer or a person under the direct supervision of
an architect or professional engineer, or those under the direct supervision of
an architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not apply to any public work in which the
contemplated expenditure for the complete project does not exceed $100,000 or
the adjusted dollar amount set by the Board of Engineers and Architects.
(Neb. RS 81-3445)
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
architecture do not apply to the following activities or the other activities
specified in Neb. RS 81-3449:
      (1)   Any alteration, renovation or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (2)   A public service provider who employs a design professional
performing professional services for itself;
      (3)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (4)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed on any land owned by the village that is not
subject to a permit from the Department of Water, Energy and Environment; and
      (5)   The work of employees and agents of the village performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs and land-use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation and maintenance.
(Neb. RS 81-3449)
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
engineering do not apply to the following activities, the activities specified
in division (B) above or the other activities specified in Neb. RS 81-3453:
      (1)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant; and
      (2)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation or
decommissioning is required by the village to be designed or supervised by an
engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the village as a part of
a public water supply.
(Neb. RS 81-3453)
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the village is considered a public
service provider if it employs or appoints an architect or a professional
engineer to be in responsible charge of the village’s architectural or
engineering work.
(Neb. RS 81-3423)
**** SIDEWALKS ****
§ 151.35 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner
of any vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet,
mud, ice or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any
snow, sleet, ice, mud or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk.
   (B)   Unless the Board of Trustees has provided otherwise, all sidewalks
within the business district shall be cleaned within five hours after the
cessation of a storm unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place
during the night, in which case, the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m.
the following day and sidewalks within the residential areas of the village
shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.36 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR AT VILLAGE DIRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Board of
Trustees deems necessary and assess the expense of such construction or repairs
on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are made, after
having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the village; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 through 17-521 and may be exercised without creating
an improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner’s
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Board of Trustees, after having received due notice to do so, the Board of
Trustees may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may assess
the cost of such construction or repairs against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner:
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the Board of Trustees at a special
meeting by a resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the
time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village
at least four weeks before the same shall be held or, in lieu thereof, personal
service may be made upon persons owning or occupying property to be assessed;
and
      (2)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other village taxes.
(Neb. RS 17-524)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. RS 19-2417 through
19-2419
§ 151.37 CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   If the owners of the record title representing more than 60% of the front
footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment for sidewalk
improvements, petition the governing body to make the same, the governing body
shall proceed in all things as though such construction had been ordered by it.
Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in fee simple of
property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the governing body
may order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this subchapter upon the
freeholder making, executing and delivering to the municipality an agreement to
the effect that the petitioning freeholder will pay the engineering service fee
and all other incidental construction costs until paid shall be a perpetual
lien upon the real estate along which the freeholder desires such sidewalk to
be constructed and that the petitioner gives and grants to the municipality the
right to assess and levy the costs of such construction against the
freeholder’s real estate abutting the sidewalk improvement and promises to pay
such costs with interest. The total cost of such improvement shall be levied,
allocated, financed and specially assessed as provided by law. In the event the
property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the
municipality shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the
nonresident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed
on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-205)
**** STREETS AND ALLEYS ****
§ 151.50 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The village shall have the power to open, widen or otherwise
improve or vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the
village and also to create, open and improve any new street, avenue, alley or
lane. All damages sustained by the citizens of the village, or by the owners of
the property therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided
by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated, such street,
avenue, alley or lane shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate,
one-half on each side thereof, and become a part of that property unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title
is retained by the village, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or
leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests
of the village.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street,
avenue, alley or lane. If title is retained by the village, such property may
be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall
be deemed in the best interests of the village.
      (4)   When the village vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley or lane, the village shall, within 30 days after the effective date of
the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register
of Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located, to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the village the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the village, any public utilities and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties, and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The village shall have the power to create, open, widen or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area or other public way, or to
annul, vacate or discontinue such street, avenue, alley, area or public way.
(Neb. RS 17-559)
§ 151.51 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Chief Street Official authorizing those excavations.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.52 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Chief Street Official.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.53 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.54 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.55 CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   (A)   The Chief Street Official shall notify the owners in fee simple of
real estate abutting a street, alley or a part thereof which is to be put under
contract for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas,
electric service and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all
consumers of gas, water and sewer services which will be discontinued during
such construction. Said notice shall be published one time in a legal newspaper
at least 20 days prior to the beginning of such construction by the party
undertaking such construction and said notice shall state at what date
connections must be made and excavation completed.
   (B)   All gas, water, sewer and underground connections must be made prior
to the paving or repaving of the street under construction. After expiration of
such time, permits for excavation will not be issued, nor will excavation be
allowed until after the completion of the pavement in said street or alley and
the formal final acceptance thereof by the proper officials of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 8-307)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates or refuses to comply with the enforcement of
any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length or incorporated
by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
(Prior Code, § 8-501)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 8-502)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
CHAPTER 152: TREES
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Size and class
   
152.03   Spacing
   
152.04   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
152.05   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
152.06   Utilities
   
152.07   Public trees; care
   
152.08   Tree topping
   
152.09   Pruning; corner clearance
   
152.10   Removal of stumps
   
152.11   Planting trees on public owned property
   
152.12   Interference with Tree Board
   
152.13   Insurance
   
152.14   Review by governing body
   
152.15   Authority, applicability
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the municipality, or to
which the public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land lying
between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways within
the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 8-401)
§ 152.02 SIZE AND CLASS.
   The spacing of street trees and/or any tree planted on municipal properties
shall fall under three size classes. These classes are:
   (A)   Class One: any tree or shrub not over 25 feet at maturity;
   (B)   Class Two: any tree not over 40 feet at maturity; and
   (C)   Class Three: any tree over 40 feet at maturity.
(Prior Code, § 8-402)
§ 152.03 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees and any tree planted on municipal property will
be according to the classes listed in §
152.02. No trees may be planted closer together than the following: Class One:
small, 30 feet; Class Two: medium, 40 feet; Class Three: large, 50 feet; except
in special planting designs with the approval of the Municipal Forester,
Village Superintendent and the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 8-403) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs and curbing and sidewalks will
be according to the class sizes listed in §
152.02, and no tree may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following:
   (A)   Class One (small): two feet;
   (B)   Class Two (medium): three feet; and
   (C)   Class Three (large): four feet.
(Prior Code, § 8-404) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.05 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   No tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any corner, measured from
the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No tree shall be planted
closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
(Prior Code, § 8-405) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.06 UTILITIES.
   No tree other than a Class One (small) may be planted under or within ten
lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or within five lateral feet
of any underground water lines, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
(Prior Code, § 8-406) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.07 PUBLIC TREES; CARE.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and
remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys,
avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure
public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such said
grounds.
   (B)   The Municipal Tree Board may remove or order to be removed, any tree
or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition, or which because of its nature
is injurious to sewer lines, electrical power lines, gas lines, water lines or
other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or
other pests. This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by
adjacent property owners if the selection and location of said tree are
according to §§
152.02 through
152.07.
(Prior Code, § 8-407)
§ 152.08 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or municipal
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
For the purpose of this section, TOPPING is the severe cutting back of limbs to
stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a
degree to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or
other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be
exempted at the determination of the Village Superintendent and Municipal
Forester.
(Prior Code, § 8-408) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.09 PRUNING; CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
municipality shall prune the branches. Branches shall not obstruct the view of
any street intersection, and there shall be a clear space of eight feet above
the surface of the sidewalk and 12 feet above the surface of the street. Said
owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed
limbs that are a menace to the safety of the public. The municipality shall
have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it
interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a street light
or intersection with visibility of any traffic control device or sign.
(Prior Code, § 8-409) (Ord. 500, passed 3-9-2026)
§ 152.10 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street or park trees shall be removed below the surface of the
ground so that the tip of the stump shall not project above the surface of the
ground.
(Prior Code, § 8-410)
§ 152.11 PLANTING TREES ON PUBLIC OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any person or organization wishing to plant trees or shrubs on
property owned by the municipality shall submit an application to the governing
body. There is no application fee. The application shall include the
applicant’s name and address, number and species of the trees to be planted and
the location. The location must be stated at the time of the application.
   (B)   The Tree Board, Municipal Forester and municipal representative shall
inspect the planting site before the application approval.
   (C)   Trees must be a minimum of six feet high with a three-quarter-inch
caliper. Trees must be purchased from stock inspected by the state. All
plantings shall be balled in burlap, or container grown, or moved to the
planting site with a tree spade. Upon planting, the applicant shall mulch
around the base of the tree three feet and two inches deep with shredded wood
chips or mulching type material.
   (D)   There shall be a list of recommended trees and shrubs that can be
planted on municipal property. This list is available at the municipal office
or the Municipal Forester and/or Tree Board will give the applicant the list of
recommended trees and shrubs.
(Prior Code, § 8-411)
§ 152.12 INTERFERENCE WITH TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
Tree Board, the Municipal Forester or any of its agents while engaging in and
about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any
street trees, park trees or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-412) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.13 INSURANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning or removing, spraying or otherwise treating any street
trees or park trees, or any trees and shrubs on municipal properties without
first evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of
$50,000 for bodily injury and $100,000 for property damage indemnifying the
municipality or any person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of
such endeavors as herein described. No proof of insurance shall be required of
any public service company or municipal employee doing such work in the pursuit
of their public service endeavors.
(Prior Code, § 8-413) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.14 REVIEW BY GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the Tree Board and Municipal Forester. Any person may appeal the
ruling or order of the Tree Board and Municipal Forester to the governing body,
who may hear the matter and make final decision.
(Prior Code, § 8-414)
§ 152.15 AUTHORITY, APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter provides full power and authority over all trees, plants and
shrubs located within the street rights-of-way, parks and public places of the
municipality and to trees, plants and shrubs located on property that are a
hazard or threat as described in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-415)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Jurisdiction
   
153.003   Purpose
   
153.004   Definitions
Application of Regulations
   
153.015   General application
   
153.016   Zoning affects everything building and use
   
153.017   General performance standards
   
153.018   Open space, parking and loading areas
   
153.019   Yard and lot reduction prohibited
   
153.020   Combination of lots or portions of lots
   
153.021   Provisions are minimum requirements
Establishment and Designation of Districts
   
153.035   Planning Commission recommendations
   
153.036   Zoning Districts created
   
153.037   Official zoning map
   
153.038   Official zoning map changes
   
153.039   Official zoning map replacement
   
153.040   Interpretation of zoning district boundaries
   
153.041   Annexation rules
   
153.042   District regulations
   
153.043   AG, Agricultural District
   
153.044   R, Residential District
   
153.045   C-1, Central Business District
   
153.046   C-2, General Commercial District
   
153.047   I-1, Light Industrial District
   
153.048   I-2, Industrial District
   
153.049   WPO, Wellhead Protection Overlay District
Supplemental District Regulations
   
153.060   Application
   
153.061   Yard requirements
   
153.062   Yard exemptions
   
153.063   Fences and walls
   
153.064   Height exceptions
   
153.065   Building relocation
   
153.066   Bulk storage of certain materials
   
153.067   Structures to have access
   
153.068   Parking and storage of certain vehicles
   
153.069   Street intersection visibility
   
153.070   One primary structure per lot
   
153.071   Easements
   
153.072   Accessory uses
   
153.073   Open air businesses
   
153.074   Home occupations and home based businesses
   
153.075   Off-street parking
   
153.076   Off-site parking facilities
   
153.077   On-street parking blisters
   
153.078   Downtown parking
   
153.079   Loading area requirements
   
153.080   Signs
   
153.081   Towers
   
153.082   Temporary uses
   
153.083   Occupancy of nonconforming structures/vehicles
   
153.084   Other general business standards
Nonconforming Uses
   
153.095   Intent
   
153.096   Hardship
   
153.097   Exceptions
   
153.098   Nonconforming lots of record
   
153.099   Nonconforming uses of land with minor structures
   
153.100   Nonconforming structures
   
153.101   Nonconforming use of structures or of structures and land in
combination
   
153.102   Repairs and maintenance of nonconforming structures
   
153.103   Conditional uses and nonconforming uses
Conditional Use Permitted by Special Review
   
153.115   General powers
    
153.116   Application requirements
   
153.117   Procedures and public hearings
   
153.118   Rules governing consideration and authorization of conditional uses
   
153.119   Expiration of conditional uses
Board of Adjustment
   
153.130   Creation, terms of office, meetings, rules
   
153.131   Powers and duties
   
153.132   Board of Adjustment has powers of Zoning Administrator upon appeal
   
153.133   Appeals from the decisions of the Board of Adjustment
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.145   Organization
   
153.146   Authority
   
153.147   Responsibilities
   
153.148   Zoning permits required
   
153.149   Certificate of zoning compliance (occupancy permit) for new, altered,
non-altered or nonconforming use
   
153.150   Expiration of zoning permit
   
153.151   Schedule of fees and charges
Amendment
   
153.165   General requirements
   
153.166   Submission of proposed amendment to Planning Commission
   
153.167   Planning Commission consideration of amendments
   
153.168   Board of Trustees consideration and action on amendments
   
153.169   Protests
Complaints, Remedies
   
153.180   Complaints regarding violations
   
153.181   Remedies
 
   
153.999   Penalty
Appendix A: Official zoning maps
Appendix B: Application and permit forms; guidance and sample documents
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, referred to and cited as the Zoning Ordinance
of the Village of Arnold, Nebraska.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.002 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the corporate limits of
the village and the territory beyond said corporate limits which is within one
mile of said corporate limits, as delineated on the official zoning map of the
village, as the same may be amended by official action upon subsequent
annexations.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.003 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted to preserve, protect and promote the public health,
safety, morals, convenience and general welfare of the village. More
specifically, this chapter is adopted in order to achieve the following
objectives:
   (A)   To provide a plan for the physical development of the village in such
a manner as to achieve, progressively, the general arrangement of land uses
depicted in the comprehensive plan of the village;
   (B)   To foster a harmonious, convenient, workable relationship among land
uses and a wholesome, serviceable and attractive living environment;
   (C)   To promote the stability of existing land uses which conform with the
development objectives of the village’s comprehensive plan and to protect such
existing land uses from inharmonious influences and development of incompatible
land uses;
   (D)   To ensure that public and private lands ultimately are used for the
purposes which are most appropriate and most beneficial from the standpoint of
the village as a community of citizens;
   (E)   To promote beneficial redevelopment of those areas which exhibit
conflicting patterns of use;
   (F)   To prevent excessive population densities and overcrowding of the land
with structures;
   (G)   To promote a safe, efficient and effective traffic circulation system;
   (H)   To protect and promote appropriately located agricultural, commercial
and industrial pursuits in order to preserve and strengthen the economic base
of the village;
   (I)   To protect and enhance real property values;
   (J)   To facilitate the appropriate location of public facilities and
institutions; and
   (K)   To conserve the natural and historic assets of the village and to
capitalize on the economic and quality of life opportunities offered by its
terrain, soils, vegetation and waterways.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular
include the plural and words used in the plural include the singular. The word
SHALL is mandatory. The word MAY is permissive. The masculine shall include the
feminine and the neuter.
   ABUT. Any situation where a lot or parcel borders directly on another lot or
parcel or is separated from another lot or parcel by a public right-of-way
which is less than 50 feet in width.
   ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING. A building or use located on the same premises as
a principal building or use, which is subordinate to the principal building or
use of the premises and is customarily incidental to such principal building or
use of the premises.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. The business and science of cultivating the soil,
producing crops, forestry orchards, vineyards, storage of crop products
produced on the premises and the breeding, feeding, pasturing of livestock,
raising and management of poultry, fish, bees and other animals, the temporary
confinement of fewer than 100 head of ruminant animals for birthing, weaning or
backgrounding for less than 180 days in any calendar year in lots or pens
normally used for crop production or pasture, provided such use shall not
include any confined animal feeding use, as defined herein.
   AGRONOMIC RATE. The application of plant nutrients, from all sources, to
meet, but not exceed, the estimated annual nutrient needs of the crop being
produced, based upon past or projected yields, so as to avoid build-up of
nutrients, including, but not limited to, nitrate, chloride, ammonia and
phosphorus. Determination of the AGRONOMIC RATE shall include the available
nutrients in the soil, the nitrogen content of any irrigation water, and the
nutrient content of any animal wastes and commercial fertilizer to be applied.
   ALLEY. A dedicated public right-of-way other than a street, which provides
secondary access to property abutting such right-of-way.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL or VETERINARY CLINIC. An establishment where animals are
admitted principally for examination, treatment and/or board or care by a
doctor of veterinary medicine, excluding outdoor kennels or runs, as defined
herein.
   ANIMAL WASTE. Any animal excrement, animal carcass, feed waste, animal
wastewater or other waste associated with the care and feeding of animals.
   APARTMENT. A part of a two-family (duplex) or multi-family dwelling
consisting of a room or suite of rooms intended, designed or used as a
residence by an individual or individuals or a single family.
   AWNING. A structural extension over the exterior of a door or window, which
provides protection from sun and/or rain.
   BARNDOMINIUM/BARNDO. Refer to SHOUSE.
   BASEMENT. A space, wholly or partially underground, having more than one-
half its height, measured from its floor to its ceiling, below the average
finished grade of the ground surrounding such space.
   BED AND BREAKFAST USE. A building, other than a hotel, motel or boarding or
lodging house, where, for compensation, temporary lodging and breakfast is
provided by the occupant of such building to persons lodging in rooms at the
premises where such rooms are not equipped with individual cooking facilities.
   BLOCK. An area of land that is entirely bounded by streets, by streets and
the exterior boundaries of a subdivision, or by a combination of the above with
a river, lake or railroad line.
   BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT. The Village Board of Zoning Adjustment duly
appointed.
   BOARDING HOUSE, LODGING HOUSE. A building, other than a motel or hotel,
where for compensation, lodging and meals are provided to persons residing in
rooms at the premises where such rooms are not equipped with individual cooking
facilities.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required setbacks
(yards) have been provided.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof which is connected to a permanent
foundation and intended for the enclosure, shelter or protection of people,
animals or property.
   BULK STORAGE. The storage of materials for distribution to other locations
and not for use or consumption of such materials on the premises.
   CAMPGROUND. A premises where two or more camping units are parked or placed
for camping purposes, or a premises used or set apart for supply to the general
public, camping space for two or more camping units for camping purposes,
including any buildings, structures, vehicles or enclosure used or intended
wholly or partially for the accommodation of transient campers.
   CAMPING UNIT. A vehicle, tent, trailer, recreational vehicle, RV, camper or
other movable shelter used for camping purposes. (See also RECREATIONAL
VEHICLE.)
   CANOPY. A roof projection over a door, entrance into a building, a drive-
through window or over business related uses, including automatic teller
machines, bank by car facilities, fuel pumps and the like which is supported
only by attachment to the main building and by posts or columns and is without
walls.
   CARPORT. An awning or roofed structure intended to provide shelter for a
vehicle or vehicles, which may be free-standing or partially supported by a
building.
   CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE. A written certificate issued by the Zoning
Administrator stating that the premises has been inspected after the erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration or moving of a building or structure,
or after a change in use of the premises and that such building, structure and
use complies with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility used for the care of children from different
families, which is or should be licensed by the State Department of Social
Services as a day care center or home.
   CLINIC, MEDICAL, DENTAL OR HEALTH. A building designed for use by one or
more persons lawfully engaged in the diagnoses, care and treatment of physical
or mental ailments or diseases of human beings, including, but not limited to,
doctors of medicine, dentists, chiropractors, osteopaths, optometrists,
podiatrists, where no patients are lodged overnight.
   CLUB. An establishment operated for social, fraternal, recreational or
educational purposes, which is open only to club members and not the general
public.
   COMMERCIAL USE. A use other than an agricultural use where products are
grown or purchased for sale or resale for profit or where services are sold or
provided for profit.
   COMMISSION. The Village Planning Commission.
   COMPATIBLE USE. A use of land suitable for direct association with abutting
and/or surrounding uses of land because of consistency with the intent of the
applicable zoning district, because the use exhibits similar or comparable
characteristics as abutting and/or surrounding uses, and because a mutually
harmonious relationship with respect to protecting the use, value and enjoyment
of property will result.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The plan or series of plans for the future development
of the village recommended to the Village Board of Trustees by the Planning
Commission and duly adopted by action of the Board of Trustees.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use of land that would not be appropriate generally or
without restriction throughout a zoning district, but which, if controlled as
to number, size, height, intensity, location or relationship to the surrounding
property would promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience and
general welfare.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A written zoning permit, issued by the Zoning
Administrator after action by the Planning Commission and Village Board, which
provides permission, under specific conditions, to develop certain uses of land
in certain zoning districts that are set forth as conditional uses in each
zoning district contained in this chapter.
   CONFINED LIVESTOCK FEEDING or CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING USE. The raising,
feeding or management of more than 100 head of animals at any one time in
buildings, structures, pens or lots used for confinement of such animals where
such lots or pens are not normally used for crop production or pasture;
provided, that a CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING USE shall not include the confinement
of fewer than 100 head of ruminant animals for birthing, weaning or
backgrounding for less than 180 days in any calendar year in lots or pens
normally used for crop production or pasture.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A retail store specializing in the sale of gasoline and
the sale of articles such as food products, over-the-counter drugs, tobacco
products, magazines, candy, beverages and similar convenience items which are
purchased frequently for “near term” consumption and use. A retail store not
selling both gasoline and convenience goods shall not be considered a
CONVENIENCE STORE.
   COURT. An outdoor, unoccupied space open to the sky, enclosed on all sides
by the exterior walls of a building or buildings.
   CUL-DE-SAC STREET. A street having one end open to traffic and being
terminated on the opposite end by a vehicular turnaround.
   DAY CARE CENTER/NURSERY SCHOOL. An establishment, other than public, private
non-religious or parochial school, which provides day care, play groups,
nursery school or education for five or more unrelated children.
   DEAD STORAGE. The storage of any partially dismantled, non-operating,
wrecked, junked, discarded, unregistered or unlicensed vehicle or parts thereof
on any premises outside of any entirely enclosed building.
   DEVELOPED AREA. An area of land, consisting of one or more parcels or lots,
which fronts on one side of a street between two intersecting streets or in the
absence of any intersecting street, a distance of 150 feet on either or both
sides of the sides of the lot on which development is proposed, whereon at
least 51% of the parcels or lots are developed with buildings.
   DISTRICT (ZONING). A section or sections of this chapter which sets forth
uniform regulation regarding use of land, minimum lot widths, frontages and
areas, minimum yards, maximum building heights and similar regulations.
   DUPLEX. See DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, which is designed and used for
residential living. (Refer to the definition of OCCUPIED and §
153.044(B)(1), (B)(2) and (B)(3) for minimum requirements.)
   DWELLING, ASSISTED LIVING. A dwelling, which is part of a multi-family
dwelling (see DWELLING, ATTACHED) designed for occupancy by elderly or persons
with a disability, in which the elderly or persons with a disability are
provided varying forms of home care and/or medical or nursing assistance.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED. A residential building which is joined to another
residential building on one or more sides by a common wall.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building, other than a hotel, motel, boarding or
lodging house or bed and breakfast facility, used by five or more unrelated
persons or families living independently of each other in separate dwelling
units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building, other than a manufactured or mobile
home, having accommodations for and intended to be occupied exclusively by one
family. (Refer to §
153.044(B)(1) and (B)(2), for minimum requirements.)
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building, other than a manufactured home or mobile
home, having independent accommodations for and intended to be occupied
exclusively by two families.
   DWELLING UNIT. Multiple rooms connected together, which constitute a
separate and independent residence for human occupancy and which contains
cooking, sleeping and restroom facilities.
   EASEMENT. A grant for the use of a defined tract of land for a specific
purpose or purposes by a property owner to the public, another person,
corporation or legal entity.
   FAMILY. An individual person or two or more persons related by blood,
marriage or adoption, living together in a dwelling unit.
   FARM. A crop production, livestock production or other similar enterprise
containing 20 acres or more of land from which $1,000 or more of crop or meat
products are produced each year.
   FENCE. A barrier, railing or other upright structure, typically of wood or
wire, enclosing an area of ground to mark a boundary, control access or prevent
escape. Also refer to §
153.063.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Any land which is subject to a 1% or greater chance of
flooding in any given year.
   FLOOR. A level or story in a building.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the one or more floors
in a building.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The total floor area of a building divided by the lot area
on which the subject building or buildings is/are located.
   FRONTAGE (LOT). The length of the real property abutting one side of a
street, measured along the right of-way line or other dividing line between the
real property and the street.
   GREENHOUSE. An enclosed structure used for cultivation of plants. Framework
made of metal or wood studs, making up the walls and roof. Framework is covered
by transparent glass, clear light transmitting ridged hard plastic
polycarbonate/polyethylene sheets. Structure must be permanently anchored into
the ground.
   GROUP HOME. A facility, licensed or approved by the state or other
appropriate agency, in which more than two persons who are unrelated by blood,
marriage or adoption reside while receiving therapy or counseling, but not
nursing care, for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   Adaptation to living with or rehabilitation from disabilities;
      (2)   Adaptation to living with or rehabilitation from emotional or
mental disorders or retardation;
      (3)   Rehabilitation from the effects of drug or alcohol abuse; or
      (4)   Supervision while under a program of alternatives to imprisonment,
including, but not limited to, pre-release, work release and probationary
programs.
   HABITABLE. A residence that is fit for human occupation and is free of
serious defects that might pose a risk to one’s health and safety, and includes
the following features: provides windows and doors that are in good repair;
ensures the roof, walls and the like are completely waterproofed and there are
no leaks; provides hot and cold running water; provides working HVAC equipment;
provides working plumbing and electrical wiring/outlets/lighting; provides
working lines if used for utilities/cooking; provides working sanitation
facilities (bathtub/shower/toilet); and provides working carbon monoxide
detector if necessary.
   HEIGHT (BUILDING). The vertical dimension measured from the average
elevation of the finished grade at the front building line to the highest point
of a building, excluding chimneys, antennas and similar appurtenances.
   HEIGHT (STRUCTURE). The vertical dimension measured from the average
elevation of the finished grade at the base of the structure to the highest
point of the structure.
   HOME OCCUPATION/HOME BASED BUSINESS. A business use conducted within a
dwelling or building accessory to such dwelling, where such business use is
conducted primarily by a person or persons residing in such dwelling, which is
clearly incidental and secondary to the residential occupancy of the dwelling,
which does not change the character thereof, and complies with the standards
for home occupations set forth in §
153.074.
   INCOMPATIBLE USE. A use of land unsuitable for direct association with
abutting and/or surrounding uses of land because of inconsistency with the
intent of the applicable zoning district, because the use exhibits
characteristics which would negatively impact abutting and/or surrounding uses
with respect to the use, value and enjoyment of such abutting and/or
surrounding property.
   INDUSTRIAL USE. A use other than an agricultural or commercial use in which
products or goods are manufactured from raw materials by hand or by machines
   JUNK YARD. See SALVAGE YARD.
   KENNEL. Any premises in which more than four dogs, cats or other
domesticated or wild animals, excluding domestic livestock, over six months of
age, are kept, bred, boarded, trained, groomed, sheltered or otherwise
maintained on the premises.
   LANDFILL. A waste disposal site, employing an engineered method of disposing
of solid wastes in a manner that minimizes environmental hazards by spreading,
compacting and applying cover material over all exposed waste, designed in
accordance with the requirements of the State Department of Environmental
Quality and licensed or permitted by said Department.
   LANDSCAPE BUFFER. A maintained land area in the front yard of a lot,
developed in accordance with the landscape buffer depth requirements of each
applicable zoning district set forth in this chapter, of which a minimum of 50%
shall be covered by any combination of living landscape material, including
trees, shrubs, living ground cover or other living materials other than turf
grasses, at the time of planting. The remaining 50% of the area shall be
covered by turf grasses or other landscape materials, living or non-living.
   LANDSCAPE SCREEN. Any fence, wall, hedge, shrubs or trees and other
customary landscape materials or combination thereof, developed in accordance
with the requirements of each applicable zoning district set forth in this
chapter, which effectively provide a solid, dense and opaque mass which
prohibits view from abutting property, absorbs sound and provides site
delineation at all times throughout the year. Customary landscape materials
shall not include vehicle bodies, truck trailers or other similar items.
   LOADING AREA. A space on a premises which is logically and conveniently
located for delivery or pick-up of raw materials, supplies or products and
which is scaled to the delivery vehicles expected to be used and accessible to
such vehicles when required off-street parking areas are filled with vehicles.
   LOT (ZONING). A piece, parcel or plot of land under single ownership or
control, not divided by any public street or public alley, having frontage on a
public street or officially approved private street, which is occupied or
intended to be occupied by one principal building and its accessory buildings
or structures. A LOT may consist of a single lot of record, a portion of a lot
of record, a combination of complete lots of record or complete lots of record
and portions of lots of record or portions of lots of record, or a parcel
described by metes and bounds. (Refer to §
153.020.)
   LOT AREA. The horizontal area of a lot exclusive of any portion of a street
or alley right-of-way.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets,
indicated as “A” in the diagram below, or a lot abutting a curved street or
streets where straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot
lines to the foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than
135 degrees, indicated as “A1” in the diagram below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/84c4ff8f122b5d9e84c31e6a93e51ec3fb316588/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1062.png]
 
   LOT COVERAGE. The total area of the lot, usually expressed as a percentage
of the lot area, that is covered, occupied or enclosed by principal and
accessory buildings, structures, porches, patios, decks, swimming pools,
parking areas, loading areas, driveways or other constructed feature.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot, other than a corner lot with only one frontage on a
street, indicated as “B” in the above diagram.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision plat or lot, plot or
parcel described by metes and bounds which was recorded in the office of the
County Registrar of Deeds as of the effective date of enactment of this
chapter.
   LOT, REVERSED FRONTAGE. A lot on which frontage is at right angles or
approximately right angles (interior angles less than 135 degrees) to the
general lot pattern in the area, indicated as “D” in the above diagram. A
REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT may be a corner lot, indicated as “AD” in the above
diagram, an interior lot, indicated as BD in the above diagram, or a through
lot, indicated as “CD” in the above diagram.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot, other than a corner lot with frontage on more than one
street, indicated as “C” in the above diagram.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between straight lines connecting the front and rear
lot corners at each side of the lot, measured at the required front yard depth
(setback line).
   MANUFACTURED HOME. (Refer to §
153.044(B)(2) for village minimum requirements), regardless of HUD’s
definition, which states: a factory-built structure, which is to be used as a
place for human habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a
permanent hitch or other device allowing it to be moved other than to a
permanent site, which does not have permanently attached to its body or frame
any wheels or axles, and which bears a label certifying that it was built in
compliance with the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standards, 24 C.F.R. parts 3280 et seq., promulgated by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development, or a modular housing unit as
defined in Neb. RS 71-1557 which bears the seal of the State Department of
Health or successor thereto and which complies with the following minimum
standards:
      (1)   A minimum floor area of 900 square feet;
      (2)   A minimum exterior width of 18 feet;
      (3)   A minimum roof pitch of two and one-half inches of rise per each 12
inches of horizontal run;
      (4)   Exterior material shall be of a color, material and scale
comparable with existing residential site built, single-family construction;
      (5)   A non-reflective roof of material which is or simulates asphalt or
wood shingles, tile or rock;
      (6)   All wheels, axles, transporting lights and removable towing
apparatus have been removed;
      (7)   Is placed on and permanently attached to a foundation of the same
construction as required for site-built homes; and
      (8)   Is permanently connected to public utilities in the same manner
required for site-built homes.
   MOBILE HOME. A detached, single or two-family dwelling, which was originally
designed for long-term human habitation, which was constructed and fabricated
into a complete unit at a factory, which is capable of being transported to a
location for use on its own chassis and wheels, which is identified by model
number and serial number by its manufacturer, and which is designed primarily
for placement on an non-permanent foundation, but which does not comply with
the definition of MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MOBILE HOME PARK/COURT. Any parcel or contiguous parcels of land designated,
maintained, used or intended to be used for the placement of two or more mobile
homes where such homes are connected to public and/or semi-public utilities and
used for living or sleeping purposes, whether or not a charge is made for
location of such homes on such parcel or contiguous parcels of land.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. An area of land which has been subdivided for the
sale of two or more lots for the purpose of placing a mobile home on such lots
with such mobile homes to be used for living or sleeping purposes.
   MODULAR HOME. A manufactured housing unit, as defined in Neb. RS 71-1557,
which bears the seal of the State Department of Health or its successor agency.
   NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD. A lawfully existing lot in existence, as
evidenced by recordation of such lot in the County Registrar of Deeds office as
of the effective date of this chapter, which does not comply with the minimum
lot area, width and other lot standards established in the various zoning
districts created by this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A building or other structure, legally existing on
the date of enactment of this chapter or amendment thereto, which does not
comply with the minimum lot area, lot coverage, height, yard or other
applicable regulation of this chapter other than use of such building or
structure.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any use of a building, structure or land legally existing
on the date of enactment of this chapter or amendment thereto, which does not
conform to the regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
   NURSING/CONVALESCENT HOME. A group housing structured, licensed by the state
for the reception, board, care or treatment of three or more unrelated
individuals, excluding a group home, as defined herein.
   OCCUPIED. A habitable structure that an individual resides in regularly or
for a period of time, or a structure which is one’s day-to-day place of
business.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An area, open or closed, which is sufficient in
size to permit the parking of one vehicle, together with a driveway connecting
said parking space to a street or road to permit ingress and egress by said
vehicle.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. The substructure of a structure to which the structure
is permanently attached which provides a permanent support for said structure
around its entire perimeter and at points within its perimeter where needed.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The duly appointed Village Planning Commission.
   PREMISES. The land area containing a land use, which is contiguous with and
under the same ownership as the land use.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which the primary use of the lot, tract or
parcel of land is situated.
   PRIVATE STREET. A privately owned, open and unoccupied space other than a
public street or alley which is reserved as the principal means of vehicular
access to lots or parcels abutting such space and which is developed, improved
and approved in accordance with the requirements for such spaces established by
the village.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and
vacation use, including travel trailers, camping trailers, pickup campers,
motor coaches, camp cars, tent trailers, boats or any other vehicular portable
structure. A RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall not be considered to be a dwelling
unit.
   RESIDENTIAL USE. A land use wherein one or more persons resides in a
habitable building containing a combination of rooms which are used for living,
cooking or sleeping purposes.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any lot, parcel or tract of land of portion thereof used for
the purpose of dismantling of machinery, equipment or vehicles or for the
storage or keeping for sale of parts and equipment resulting from such
dismantling, wrecking or other method of salvaging of such items, or for the
storage or keeping of scrap metals and other scrap or waste materials, provided
that the storage of machinery, equipment or vehicles in entirely enclosed
buildings shall not be considered a SALVAGE YARD. (Also refer to DEAD STORAGE.)
   SETBACK LINE. A line defined by connecting two points, each measured from
the front, side or rear lot line which establishes the interior boundary of the
front, side or rear yard on a lot. For purposes of this chapter, a front
SETBACK LINE shall be determined by measuring from the existing right-of-way
line of the abutting street or the proposed right-of-way width established for
the classification of the abutting street as set forth in the village’s major
street plan of current adoption, whichever is greater.
   SHOUSE. Also referred to as BARNDOMINIUM, a combination of a dwelling unit
and machine shed under a common or connect roofing system. For purposes of a
SHOUSE, these structures when on a farm, agricultural operation or acreage
shall not be classified as a farm building. In addition, the residence portion
of the facility shall meet the definition of DWELLING. (Also refer to §
153.044(D)(13).)
   SIGN. As defined in §
153.080.
   SIGN, BILLBOARD. As defined in §
153.080.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. As defined in §
153.080.
   SIGN FACING. As defined in §
153.080.
   SIGN, FREE-STANDING. As defined in §
153.080.
   SIGN, INCIDENTAL. As defined in §
153.080.
   SIGN, MONUMENTAL. As defined in §
153.080.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. As defined in §
153.080.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. As defined in §
153.080.
   SIGN SURFACE. As defined in §
153.080.
   SOLID MANURE. Waste produced by living cattle, dairy cattle, sheep and other
ruminants and horses which contains not less than 12% solids by weight and
waste produced by living swine, poultry or other non-ruminant animals which
contains not less than 25% solids by weight.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, discarded material, including solid,
liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial,
commercial, residential or other use, but excluding any animal waste, animal
wastewater or any waste from a waste handling facility, as defined herein.
   STORAGE, PERMANENT. The presence of any regulated item not stored in an
entirely enclosed building for a period of ten or more consecutive days. A
mobile home, as defined herein, shall not be considered an enclosed building
for storage.
   STREET. A public way set aside for public travel, which affords the
principal means of vehicular access to abutting property. A STREET shall
include a road, highway, thoroughfare and avenue.
   STREET CENTERLINE. A line extending down the center of a street right-of-
way.
   STREET LINE. A right-of-way line of a street or the dividing line between a
lot, tract or parcel of land and the private street abutting such lot, tract or
parcel of land.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change to the supporting members of a building or
structure, including foundations, bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
   STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY. A non-permanent structure designed or used for a
limited period of time or any structure utilizing canvas, plastic or other
types of covering for a roof or walls.
   THOROUGHFARE STREET. A main road or street that is open on both ends.
   TOWNHOUSE. One of a group or row of not less than three nor more than 12
attached single-family dwelling units designed and constructed as a single
structure facing upon a street in which the individual dwelling units may or
may not be owned separately.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land and/or buildings and
structures thereon is designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is
occupied or maintained, including any manner of standards of this chapter.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation of the requirements of this chapter where such
relaxation of the requirements of this chapter will not be contrary to the
public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the real property
and not the result of the actions or desires of the owner of such real
property, a literal enforcement of the requirements of this chapter would
result in unnecessary and undue hardship. Relaxation of the requirements of
this chapter shall apply only to height, area and size of a building or
structure or size of yards and open spaces. Establishment or expansion of a use
otherwise prohibited by this chapter shall not be allowed by relaxation of the
requirements of this chapter, nor shall any relaxation of the requirements of
this chapter be granted because of the presence of nonconformities in the
zoning district or uses in an adjoining zoning district or because of
conditions created by the owner of said real property.
   VEHICLE. Any device with a chassis and wheels or originally constructed with
chassis and wheels, or runners, designed for the conveyance of persons or
objects.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Arnold, Nebraska.
   VILLAGE BOARD. The Village Board of Trustees of the Village of Arnold,
Nebraska.
   WALL. A vertical structure which encloses, divides, supports or protects.
(Also refer to §
153.063.)
   WASTE HANDLING FACILITY. Any facility, including:
      (1)   Any and all structures, combination of structures, under-floor
pits, holding ponds, waste or manure catch basins, lots or pens where animal
waste is accumulated, diversion terraces, liquid manure storage pits, lagoons,
manure or other waste composting sites or other facility used to hold, store,
process, digest, control or otherwise dispose of dead animals, animal waste,
animal wastewater or other waste materials, other than solid waste, as defined
herein, generated by any industrial use, any municipal waste treatment facility
or other use, including animal waste and animal wastewater generated by any
confined animal feeding use, as defined herein, whether on the same or
different premises as the use generating said waste;
      (2)   Any above-ground pipelines for transporting of wastes other than
solid wastes, as defined herein, any irrigation or other device, equipment or
mechanism used to transport and/or land apply or otherwise dispose of such
wastes, whether on the same or different premises than the industrial use,
municipal waste treatment facility or other use, including animal waste and
animal wastewater generated by any confined animal feeding use, as defined
herein;
      (3)   Any land on which animal waste, animal wastewater or other waste,
excluding solid waste as defined herein, generated by any industrial use,
municipal waste treatment facility or other use, including animal waste and
animal wastewater generated by any confined animal feeding use, as defined
herein, is applied; and
      (4)   Any facilities, apparatus or mechanism used to ventilate, exhaust,
process or treat gases, odor, dust, smoke or other waste product emanating from
any building or structure associated with any industrial use, municipal waste
treatment facility or other use, including any confined animal feeding use, as
defined herein.
   YARD (SETBACK). An open space on the same lot with a building, buildings,
structure or structures, lying between the front, side or rear wall of such
building, buildings or such structure or structures and the nearest lot line,
unoccupied except for specific minor structures permitted to be located in this
open space by this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT (SETBACK). A yard extending across the entire width of the lot
between the front lot line and the nearest point of the primary building. For
purposes of determining yard requirements for corner and through lots, all
sides of a lot abutting a street shall be considered a FRONT YARD and shall
comply with the requirements thereof. (Refer to “X” on the “location and
measurement of yards on lots diagram.”)
   YARD, REAR (SETBACK). A yard extending across the entire width of the lot
between the rear lot line and the nearest part of the primary building. (Refer
to “Z” on the “location and measurement of yards on lots diagram.”)
   YARD, SIDE (SETBACK). On single frontage lots, a yard extending along the
side lot line from the front yard to the rear yard and lying between the side
lot line and the nearest part of a primary building. On through lots, a yard
extending along the side lot line from front yard to front yard and lying
between the side lot lines and the nearest part of the primary building. On
corner lots, a yard extending along the side lot line from the front yard to
the opposite side lot line, lying between the side lot line and the nearest
part of the primary building. (Refer to “Y” on the location and measurement of
yards on lots diagram.”)
   YARD, SPECIAL (SETBACK). A yard behind any required yard adjacent to a
public street, required to perform the same functions as a side or rear yard,
but adjacent to a lot line so placed or oriented that neither the term SIDE
YARD or REAR YARD clearly applies. In such cases, the Zoning Administrator
shall require a yard with minimum dimensions as generally required for a side
yard or a rear yard in the zoning district, determining which shall apply by
the relationship of the portion of the lot on which the yard is to be located
to the adjoining lot or lots with due regard to the orientation and location of
buildings, structures and buildable areas thereon. (Refer to “S” on the
location and measurement of yards on lots diagram.”)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/84c4ff8f122b5d9e84c31e6a93e51ec3fb316588/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1060.png]
 
   YARD, TRANSITIONAL (SETBACK). A yard in effect where a nonresidential zoning
district abuts or is adjacent across a street or alley from a residential
zoning district.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person or persons authorized and empowered by the
village to administer and enforce the requirements of this chapter.
   ZONED AREA. The land area included in the various zoning districts
established by this chapter as indicated on the official zoning map of the
village.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A portion of the zoned area of the village and the
jurisdictional area of the village for which uniform regulations governing the
use, height, area, size and intensity of the use of buildings and structures,
land and open space are established by this chapter.
   ZONING REGULATIONS. The requirements stipulated in this chapter, as it may
be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
**** APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS ****
§ 153.015 GENERAL APPLICATION.
   The zoning regulations set forth by this chapter within each zoning district
shall be minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land use, except as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.016 ZONING AFFECTS EVERYTHING BUILDING AND USE.
   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no
building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity with all of
the regulations herein specified for the zoning district in which it is
located.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.017 GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or altered to exceed the
height or bulk, to accommodate or house a greater number of families, to occupy
a greater percentage of lot area, to have narrower or smaller rear yards, front
yards, side yards or other open spaces than herein required, or in any manner
contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.018 OPEN SPACE, PARKING AND LOADING AREAS.
   Except where specifically authorized in this chapter, no part of any yard or
other open space, off-street parking area or loading area required in
connection with any building or use for the purpose of complying with the
requirements of this chapter shall be included as part of any yard or other
open space, off-street parking area or loading area similarly required for any
other building or use.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.019 YARD AND LOT REDUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No yard or lot existing at the time of adoption of this chapter shall be
reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein.
Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall meet or
exceed the minimum requirements established herein.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.020 COMBINATION OF LOTS OR PORTIONS OF LOTS.
   Any lot, portion of a lot, two or more contiguous lots, combination of
contiguous lots or portions of contiguous lots under the same ownership, of
record on the effective date of this chapter shall, under this chapter, be
considered a single lot and shall not be separated or subdivided in any way
unless all lots created or remaining from such separation or subdivision shall
meet or exceed the minimum lot area, lot width, lot frontage and/or yard
requirements of the zoning district in which such lot, portion or a lot, two or
more contiguous lots, combination of contiguous lots or portions of contiguous
lots is/are located.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.021 PROVISIONS ARE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of
the public health, safety, morals or general welfare.
   (B)   Wherever the provisions of this chapter require a greater width or
size of yards, courts or other open spaces, or require a lower height of
buildings or structures, or require a greater percentage of a lot to be left
unoccupied, or impose other higher standards than are required in any other
ordinance, the provisions of this chapter shall govern. Similarly, where the
provisions of any other ordinance require a greater width or size of yards,
courts or other open spaces, or require a lower height of buildings or
structures, or require a greater percentage of a lot to be left unoccupied, or
impose other higher standards than are required by this chapter, the provisions
of such other ordinance shall govern.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
**** ESTABLISHMENT AND DESIGNATION OF DISTRICTS ****
§ 153.035 PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the purpose of the Planning Commission to recommend the
boundaries of the various original zoning districts and appropriate regulations
to be enforced therein.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall make a preliminary report and hold at
least one public hearing thereon before submitting its final report to the
Village Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The Village Board of Trustees shall not hold a public hearing on such
zoning regulations and districts or take action on adoption thereof until it
has received the final report of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.036 ZONING DISTRICTS CREATED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, there are hereby created the following
types of zoning districts, zoning district regulations and zoning district
designations for which all land contained within the corporate limits of the
village and the jurisdictional area outside of the corporate limits of said
village, as defined in §
153.002, shall be divided.
 
AG  Agricultural District
C-1 Central Business District
C-2 General Commercial District
I-1 Light Industrial District
I-2 Industrial District
R   Residential District
WPO Wellhead Protection Overlay District
 
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.037 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The village and its jurisdictional area, as defined in §
153.002, is hereby divided into zoning districts, as indicated and shown on the
official zoning map which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The
official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the Chairperson of
the Village Board of Trustees, attested by the signature of the Village Clerk
and bearing the seal of the village under the following words: “This is to
certify that this is the official zoning map referred to in §
153.037 of the Village of Arnold, Nebraska Code of Ordinances,” together with
the date of the adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.038 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP CHANGES.
   (A)   (1)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes
are made in the zoning district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the
official zoning map, such changes shall be entered on the official zoning map
promptly after the change or amendment has been approved by the Village Board
of Trustees with an entry being made on the official zoning map as follows: “On
(date)  , by official action of the Village Board of Trustees, the following
change(s) was/were made in the official zoning map,” which entry shall be
signed by the Chairperson of the Village Board of Trustees and attested by the
signature of the Village Clerk.
      (2)   No amendment to this chapter which involves matters portrayed on
the official zoning map shall be effective until after such change and entry
have been made on said official zoning map.
   (B)   No changes of any nature shall be made in the official zoning map or
matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this
chapter. Any unauthorized change by any person or persons shall be considered a
violation of this chapter and shall be punishable as provided in §
153.999.
   (C)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning
map which may, from time to time, be made or published, the official zoning
map, which shall be located in the office of the Village Clerk, shall be the
final authority as to the current zoning status of all areas within the village
and its jurisdictional area, as defined in §
153.002.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.039 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   In the event that the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed,
lost or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the Village Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, adopt a new
official zoning map which shall supersede the prior official zoning map. The
new official zoning map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions in
the prior official zoning map, but no such correction shall have the effect of
amending the original official zoning map, or any subsequent amendment thereof.
   (B)   Each new official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of
the Chairperson of the Village Board of Trustees attested by the signature of
the Village Clerk and bearing the seal of the village under the following
words: “This is to certify that this official zoning map supersedes and
replaces the official zoning map adopted  (date)  as part of Ordinance No.
         of the Village of Arnold, Nebraska.”
   (C)   Unless the prior official zoning map has been lost or has been totally
destroyed, the prior map or any significant part thereof remaining, shall be
preserved together with all available related amendment records.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.040 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of the zoning districts as
shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
streets, roads or alleys shall be interpreted as following such centerlines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as following platted lot lines shall be
interpreted as following such platted lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the corporate limit
lines of the village shall be interpreted as following such corporate limit
lines.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following railroad lines shall
be interpreted as following a line midway between the main railroad tracks.
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as following the shore lines of a river, creek,
canal, lake or other body of water shall be interpreted as following such shore
lines, and boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of a
river, creek, canal, lake or other body of water shall be interpreted as
following such centerline. In either instance, in the event of a change in the
location of the shore line or centerline of any such body of water, the
boundaries shall be interpreted as moving with such shore lines or centerlines.
   (F)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (E) above shall be so interpreted, and
distances not specifically indicated on the official zoning map shall be
determined by the scale of said official zoning map.
   (G)   Where a zoning district boundary line divides a lot which was of
single ownership at the time of adoption of this chapter, the Board of Zoning
Adjustment may permit the extension of the zoning district boundary for either
portion of the lot, not to exceed 50 feet beyond the location of the boundary
line indicated on the official zoning map, into the remaining portion of the
lot.
   (H)   In circumstances not covered by divisions (A) through (G) above, or
where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at variance with
those shown on the official zoning map, the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall
interpret the zoning district boundary.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.041 ANNEXATION RULES.
   Annexation of land to the village shall not affect the zoning applied to
such annexed land prior to such annexation, except where annexation of land
occurs which may result in expansion of the one-mile jurisdictional planning
and zoning boundaries of the village as may be indicated on an amended official
zoning map, in which case the additional area included within such
jurisdictional area shall be zoned in a manner consistent with the
comprehensive plan of the village, and the official zoning map shall be
modified in a manner consistent with such revised boundaries and zoning.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.042 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   District regulations for each zoning district, as set forth in §
153.036, shall be as hereinafter described.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.043 AG, AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This district is established for the purposes of:
      (1)   Protecting and preserving productive agricultural land and to
avoid, as much as possible, agricultural versus urban land use conflicts in the
area surrounding the village by discouraging leap-frog urban development;
      (2)   Avoiding urban and suburban developments which could result in
demands for improvements to existing roads and higher levels of public
services; and
      (3)   Avoiding the development of agricultural uses which would be
incompatible with the existing and proposed urban uses within and around the
village.
   (B)   Outright allowable principal uses and structures. The following uses
and structures shall be allowable uses outright and shall not require a written
zoning permit or certificate of zoning compliance:
      (1)   Agricultural uses, as defined in §
153.004, but excluding any confined animal feeding use, as defined in §
153.004, and excluding livestock auction barns or yards, commercial grain
storage grain elevators, grain milling or bulk fuel or fertilizer facilities
not subordinate to the agricultural activities on the premises and further
excluding wineries;
      (2)   Forestry, tree farms, plant nurseries, vineyards and orchards,
including facilities for the storage and sale of produce grown on the premises,
provided that any buildings associated with such storage or sale of produce, if
other than a moveable roadside stand, shall require a zoning permit;
      (3)   Day care and child care uses, when conducted within a residential
dwelling unit by the occupant(s) of said dwelling unit; and
      (4)   Irrigation wells, pivot and other irrigation systems and erosion,
runoff control and flood control structures.
   (C)   Permitted principal uses and structures. The following uses and
structures shall be permitted uses but shall require the issuance of a
building/zoning permit and/or certificate of zoning compliance:
      (1)   Single-family residential dwellings, including manufactured homes
meeting the definition for such homes and the performance standards for such
homes as are defined in §
153.004, but excluding manufactured or mobile homes which do not meet said
definition and performance standards, provided that the following restrictions
shall apply: The lot on which such dwelling unit is to be located shall front
on or have access to an existing public village, county or state roadway other
than a roadway, classified by the County Board of Commissioners, as a minimum
maintenance road, provided that if a dwelling unit is to be located on a lot
which fronts on or has access only to a road classified as a minimum
maintenance road, it shall be the responsibility of the owner of such dwelling
unit to improve such road or that portion thereof which would connect such lot
to the nearest public roadway other than a minimum maintenance road to county
road standards prior to the Board of Commissioners accepting such road or
portion thereof for county maintenance;
      (2)   Churches, temples and similar religious uses, excluding buildings
used all or in part for the general education of youth where the education
curriculum is similar to that of a public school;
      (3)   Wineries; and
      (4)   Below-ground utility lines and above-ground utility installations
and structures, including local distribution lines, cable, poles and
appurtenances, below-ground and above-ground public utility water storage
tanks, distribution substations, regulator stations, communications equipment
buildings, but excluding storage or maintenance yards, buildings or
administrative offices for such utilities and excluding communications,
microwave, cellular communications or other towers in excess of 35 feet in
height.
   (D)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. The following uses and
structures shall be permitted as accessory to the permitted principal uses and
structures:
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures normally and commonly
appurtenant to the permitted principal uses and structures. Such uses,
buildings or structures shall require the issuance of a building/zoning permit
and/or certificate of zoning compliance;
      (2)   Home occupations, in accordance with §
153.074. Issuance of a building/zoning permit or certificate of zoning
compliance shall be required;
      (3)   Moveable roadside stands for the temporary sale of produce grown or
crafts produced on the premises. No zoning permit shall be required;
      (4)   Radio and television antennas less than 35 feet in height and
television satellite receiving antennas (satellite dishes), provided that
satellite receiving antennas larger than 24 inches in diameter shall be located
in the side or rear yard. Such antennas shall not require the issuance of a
building/zoning permit; and
      (5)   On-site signs, excluding billboards, related to permitted uses and
approved conditional uses, all subject to the regulations and requirements of §
153.080. All signs shall require issuance of a building/zoning permit.
   (E)   Conditional uses and structures. After the provisions of §§
153.115 through
153.119 relating to conditional uses have been met, the following uses may be
allowed as conditional uses:
      (1)   Cemeteries;
      (2)   Public schools, private schools and schools affiliated with a
church or religion;
      (3)   Public or private golf courses and driving ranges, excluding
miniature golf courses;
      (4)   Parks, playgrounds, wildlife preserves, conservation areas, lakes,
ponds and similar open space uses;
      (5)   Recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds;
      (6)   Communications equipment buildings, storage or maintenance yards,
buildings or administrative offices for such utilities, communications,
microwave, cellular communications or other towers in excess of 35 feet in
height;
      (7)   Municipal sewage treatment facilities, sanitary landfills and
recycling or waste composting centers;
      (8)   Rock, sand, gravel or other mineral extraction or mineral
processing uses;
      (9)   Airports, aircraft landing strips and heliports;
      (10)   Agricultural service establishments engaged in providing
horticultural or animal husbandry products or services to area agricultural
product producers, agricultural equipment repair services, crop seed and
commercial grain storage and processing facilities and similar agricultural
service uses;
      (11)   Shouse/barndominium; and
      (12)   Other uses and structures determined by the Commission to be
comparable with the above stated conditional uses and consistent with the
intent statement of this zoning district.
   (F)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures, which
are not specifically allowable, permitted or authorized as conditional uses
shall be prohibited in this zoning district.
   (G)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   The minimum lot area for a single-family dwelling unit,
manufactured home or modular home shall be five acres, and that the single-
family dwelling unit be located on the lot to ensure a minimum three-acre area
shall be required if compliance with minimum soil percolation rates and maximum
slope as set forth in the State Department of Environmental Quality Title 124
with regard to proper sizing and location of septic tank and tile field or
lagoon sewage disposal systems are less than the minimum percolation rate or
greater than the maximum slope standards established in said Title 124.
      (2)   The minimum lot area for uses identified as conditional uses in
this district shall be the lot area appropriate for such uses, as determined by
the Commission in authorizing of any such use in accordance with §§
153.165 through
153.169, provided that no lot shall be less than two acres in area.
   (H)   Minimum lot width and frontage. The minimum lot width, measured at the
minimum required front setback line, and the minimum lot frontage, measured at
the front lot (right-of-way) line, for uses in this district shall be as
follows.
      (1)   The minimum lot width shall be 200 feet.
      (2)   The minimum lot frontage shall be 66 feet.
      (3)   The minimum lot width and frontage for conditional uses listed in
division (E) above shall be the width and frontage appropriate to each
conditional use, as determined by the Commission in its review, and
authorization of each conditional use in accordance with §§
153.115 through
153.119; provided, however, that in no event shall the minimum lot width be
less than 200 feet and the minimum lot frontage be less than 66 feet.
   (I)   Minimum yard requirements. The minimum yards or setbacks of any
building from a property line shall be as follows:
      (1)   Front yard. Thirty feet from the right-of-way line of the street or
road which establishes the front lot line;
      (2)   Side yard. Each side yard shall be 15 feet, provided that where any
use other than a single-family dwelling unit abuts a residential zoning
district the minimum side yard on the side adjoining such zoning district shall
be 50 feet; and
      (3)   Rear yard. Fifteen feet, provided that where any use other than a
single-family dwelling unit abuts a residential zoning district the minimum
rear yard shall be 50 feet.
   (J)   Maximum height. No limitation.
   (K)   Maximum lot coverage. The maximum area of any lot, which is occupied
by buildings, structures, decks, patios, accessory buildings, driveways and
parking areas shall not exceed 50% of the lot area.
   (L)   Off-street parking and loading areas. The minimum number of off-street
parking spaces and minimum loading areas required for each allowable, and
permitted use and any authorized conditional use in this district shall be in
accordance with the requirements of §§
153.075 through
153.079.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.044 R, RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This district is established for the purpose of providing
areas within and around the village for a wide range of residential uses, to
encourage the development of alternative housing styles which make more
efficient use of the land and public infrastructure and create more usable open
spaces while maintaining building height and building mass compatibility of
such alternative housing styles with single-family detached housing and for the
purpose of protecting such residential areas from development of incompatible
land uses in order to promote and maintain a stable residential environment.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures.
      (1)   Single-family, detached and attached (zero-lot line) dwellings all
having 900 square feet minimum living/livable floor area, two-family (duplex)
dwellings, multi-family dwellings and townhouses, which contain minimally a
bathroom, a kitchen, a bedroom and a living/dining space, and laundry (see §
153.004);
      (2)   Manufactured homes, which must meet 1,200 square feet minimum floor
area, minimally contain a bathroom, a kitchen, a bedroom, a living/dining
space, laundry and all other manufactured home standards (see §
153.004);
      (3)   Nursing and convalescent homes, assisted living homes and hospice
centers;
      (4)   Churches, temples and similar religious uses, excluding buildings
used all or in part as schools or for (non-religious) education of youth where
the education curriculum is similar to that of a public school; and
      (5)   Below-ground utility lines and above-ground utility installations
and structures, including local distribution lines, cable, poles and
appurtenances, below-ground and above-ground public utility water storage
tanks, distribution substations, regulator stations, communications equipment
buildings, but excluding storage or maintenance yards, buildings or
administrative offices for such utilities and excluding communications,
microwave, cellular communications or other towers in excess of 35 feet in
height.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures.
      (1)   Canopies may be constructed over parking spaces on the on-site
location of multi-family dwellings within the Residential District. Said
canopies may be allowed to have a zero setback in any yard provided they are
constructed to be breakaway if hit by a motor vehicle.
      (2)   Garages, carports, patios, outbuildings for storage and other
similar structures customary and incidental to the allowable and permitted uses
and authorized conditional uses. These structures will only be permitted if a
residential dwelling structure resides on the property and is occupied and
habitable. These structures shall not include buildings with canvas, plastic or
other non-permanent used for a roof or walls, and such outbuildings shall not
include buildings for storage of agricultural equipment, grain or other
agricultural use, except such buildings associated with sale of produce
produced on the premises. Such uses, buildings or structures shall require the
issuance of a building/zoning permit and/or certificate of zoning compliance.
      (3)   Home occupations, in accordance with §
153.074. Issuance of a building/zoning permit or certificate of zoning
compliance shall be required.
      (4)   Moveable roadside stands for the temporary sale of produce grown or
crafts produced on the premises. No zoning permit shall be required.
      (5)   Radio and television antennas, less than 35 feet in height, and
television satellite receiving antennas (satellite dishes); provided, that
satellite receiving antennas larger than 24 inches in diameter shall be located
in the side or rear yard. Such antennas shall not require the issuance of a
building/zoning permit.
      (6)   Provisions for greenhouses are as follows.
         (a)   Framing should be of wood or metal framing materials intended
for greenhouse construction, including transparent glass clear light
transmitting rigid hard plastic glazed polycarbonate/polyethelene sheets.
Unacceptable greenhouse materials include scrap windows, scrap lumber, scrap
metal, wood pallets, cattle/hog panels or like panel materials, tarps, rolled
plastic canvas or materials which are considered non-permanent in their
manufacturing nature.
         (b)   Greenhouses must also be permanently attached or permanently
anchored in concrete footings no less than three feet deep or onto a permanent
concrete foundation along the parameter of the structure. Anchors must run
every four feet minimally along the structure base attached to footings or
foundation.
         (c)   Size allowable for a small residential personal use greenhouse
is in accordance with division (H)(2)(d)2. below and cannot cover more than 30%
of yard.
         (d)   Such structures shall require the issuance of a building/zoning
permit or certificate of zoning compliance.
   (D)   Conditional uses and structures. After the provisions of §§
153.115 through
153.119 relating to conditional uses have been met, the following uses may be
allowed as conditional uses:
      (1)   Parks, playgrounds, golf courses and other open space recreation
uses, excluding miniature golf facilities and water parks;
      (2)   Public or private schools, colleges and similar education
facilities;
      (3)   Public uses of an administrative, service or cultural nature,
including libraries, museums, fire stations, administrative offices and similar
uses;
      (4)   Communications, microwave, cellular communications or other towers
in excess of 35 feet in height, storage or maintenance yards, buildings or
administrative offices for such utility uses;
      (5)   Hospitals, day care and child care centers;
      (6)   Bed and breakfast uses;
      (7)   Forestry, tree farms, plant nurseries, vineyards and orchards,
including facilities for the storage and sale of produce grown on the premises,
provided that any buildings associated with such storage or sale of produce, if
other than a moveable roadside stand, shall require a zoning permit;
      (8)   Horticultural uses customary to urban residential uses;
      (9)   Raising of crops, pasturing of livestock (in accordance with
applicable village ordinances), but excluding the feeding of any type of
livestock in buildings or pens and excluding any buildings for agricultural
equipment storage, grain storage bins or buildings, buildings for the raising
or management of livestock or other building which supports agricultural
operations on the premises;
      (10)   Temporary uses in accordance with §
153.082;
      (11)   Agricultural buildings, non-commercial grain storage bins and
similar structures designed to support existing agricultural operations;
      (12)   Other uses, determined by the Village Board of Trustees, after
recommendation by the Planning Commission, to be comparable with the other uses
listed as conditional uses in this district, compatible with the uses permitted
in the district and consistent with the intent of this district; and
      (13)   Shouses/bardominums shall have on the front facade (street side)
traditional home construction materials and designs, minimally, the lower one-
third shall be covered with a type of facade material such as a brick, stone or
comparable type and shall have a constructed porch covering on the front site
facade street side. Shall have a minimum of 1,200 square feet minimum dedicated
and fully finished as an occupied residential dwelling within the structure and
shall minimally contain a kitchen, bathroom, laundry, living/dining space,
bedroom(s), assuring greater percentage of the building is a primary
residential dwelling unit.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. Storage/shipping container structures,
and all other uses and structures which are not specifically permitted or
authorized as conditional uses shall be prohibited in this zoning district.
Such prohibition shall include the erection or maintaining of any temporary
structure as defined in §
153.004.
   (F)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   The minimum lot area for uses listed in division (B) above shall be
unrestricted, provided that each lot shall provide a marketable buildable area
and all building(s) thereon shall comply with the minimum width, minimum
frontage, minimum yards, minimum parking area and maximum rear yard coverage
requirements specified in this district.
      (2)   The minimum lot area for conditional uses listed in division (D)
above shall be the area appropriate to each conditional use, as determined by
the Commission in its review, and authorization of each conditional use in
accordance with §§
153.115 through
153.119, provided that each lot area shall be sufficient in size to allow a
buildings thereon to comply with the minimum width, minimum frontage, minimum
yards, minimum parking area and maximum rear yard coverage requirements
specified in this district.
   (G)   Minimum lot width and frontage.
      (1)   The minimum lot width and frontage for uses listed in division (B)
above shall be unrestricted, provided that each lot shall provide a marketable
buildable area and all building(s) thereon shall comply with the minimum width,
minimum yards, minimum parking area and maximum rear yard coverage requirements
specified in this district.
      (2)   The minimum lot width and frontage for conditional uses listed in
division (D) above shall be the area appropriate to each conditional use, as
determined by the Commission in its review, and authorization of each
conditional use in accordance with §§
153.115 through
153.119, provided that each lot area shall be sufficient in size to allow a
buildings thereon to comply with the minimum width, minimum frontage, minimum
yards, minimum parking area and maximum rear yard coverage requirements
specified in this district.
   (H)   Minimum yard requirements. The minimum yards (setbacks) for any
building from a property line or street right-of-way line shall be as follows.
(Refer to § 153.061 for required minimum yard and setback regarding eaves,
cornice overhangs, awnings, balconies, exceptions and the like.)
      (1)   Front yard. Twenty feet from a street designated on the village’s
major street plan as an arterial street and 20 feet from a street designated as
a collector street, local street or frontage road. For developed areas, as
defined in §
153.004, the required front yard shall be the average of the existing front
yards, provided that in no event shall such front yard be less than seven feet,
and further provided that where existing front yards exceed the required
minimum front yard, the minimum front yard requirement shall apply.
      (2)   Side yard. For all uses, except accessory buildings and zero-lot
line residential dwellings, each side yard shall be a minimum of five feet,
provided that:
         (a)   Where the side yard of any residential use abuts a commercial or
industrial zoning district, the side yard abutting such commercial or
industrial zoning district shall be a minimum of ten feet;
         (b)   Where any side yard of a townhouse or a two or more story multi-
family residential use abuts a residential use other than another townhouse or
two or more story multi-family use, the side yard abutting such non-townhouse
or non-two or more story multi-family residential use shall be a minimum of ten
feet;
         (c)   Where any use other than a residential use which is permitted
outright or by conditional use in this district, abuts a residentially zoned
lot on the side, the minimum side yard on the side adjoining such lot shall be
a minimum of ten feet; and
         (d)   1.   For zero-lot line residential dwellings, the minimum side
yard between the dwellings shall be zero.
            2.   For detached accessory buildings, the minimum side yard shall
be five feet from the side lot line to the nearest point of the accessory
building, provided that any such accessory building shall comply with the
following limitations:
               a.   Accessory buildings shall not be placed on any recorded
easement;
               b.   The total accessory building or buildings shall not cover
more than 30% of the rear yard; and
               c.   The maximum height of any accessory building with a side
yard setback of less than ten feet shall be limited to 16 feet.
      (3)   Rear yard.
         (a)   The minimum rear yard shall be ten feet, provided that where any
use permitted outright or by conditional use in this district other than a
single-family detached or attached dwelling unit, a two-family dwelling unit or
single story multi-family residential use abuts a residentially zoned lot to
the rear, the minimum rear yard shall be ten feet.
         (b)   For detached accessory buildings, the minimum rear yard shall be
five feet from the rear lot line to the nearest point of the accessory
building, provided that any such accessory buildings shall comply with the
following restrictions.
            1.   Accessory buildings shall not be placed on any recorded
easement.
            2.   The total accessory building or buildings shall not cover more
than 30% of the rear yard.
            3.   The maximum height of any accessory building with a rear yard
setback of less than ten feet shall be limited to 16 feet.
   (I)   Maximum height. The maximum height for any structure or building shall
be 40 feet.
   (J)   Off-street parking and loading. The minimum number of off-street
parking spaces and minimum loading areas required for each allowable, and
permitted use and any authorized conditional use in this district shall be in
accordance with the requirements of §§
153.075 through
153.079.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024; Ord. 497, passed 2-9-2026; Ord. 502, passed 4-13-
2026; Ord. 503, passed 4-13-2026) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.045 C-1, CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This district is intended to provide a commercial area for
those establishments serving the general shopping, business service, financial
and professional service needs of the trade area, in particular those
establishments customarily oriented to the pedestrian shopper. The district is
intended to preserve the central business area of the village as a primary
shopping, service and governmental center while providing the flexibility of
land uses and development standards to allow the central business area to
adjust to changes in shopper preferences and the development of a tourist
oriented center. An additional intent of this district is to preserve the
historic character of the Central Business District.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures.
      (1)   Banks and similar financial service uses;
      (2)   Retail sales of comparison and convenience goods;
      (3)   Convenience stores and food service uses, including grocery stores,
delicatessens, meat markets, bakeries and restaurants, including outdoor
restaurants and sidewalk cafés;
      (4)   Personal and business service uses;
      (5)   Professional service uses such as law, real estate brokerage,
medical and dental offices;
      (6)   Mortuaries and funeral parlors;
      (7)   Indoor commercial recreation uses such as auditoriums, theaters,
bowling alleys, billiard rooms, dance studios, video game rental and game
rooms;
      (8)   Special service uses, including day care centers, youth centers,
senior and social centers;
      (9)   Private clubs or lodges, philanthropic and charitable institution
uses, athletic clubs, health studios;
      (10)   Communications uses such as newspaper publishing uses,
photocopying shops, radio and television studios, telecommunication uses, but
excluding exterior warehousing of any equipment or products;
      (11)   Public service and governmental uses (includes fire stations and
emergency services facilities), excluding exterior warehousing of equipment or
products;
      (12)   Hotels, motels, bed and breakfast and similar uses catering to the
traveling public and tourists;
      (13)   Lounges, taverns and night clubs;
      (14)   Off-street parking lots and structures;
      (15)   Lumber yards, building supply, hardware and appliance stores;
      (16)   Antique and craft stores; and
      (17)   Below-ground utility lines and above-ground utility installations
and structures, including local distribution lines, cable, poles and
appurtenances, below-ground and above-ground public utility water storage
tanks, distribution substations, regulator stations, communications equipment
buildings, but excluding storage or maintenance yards, buildings or
administrative offices for such utilities and excluding communications,
microwave, cellular communications or other towers in excess of 35 feet in
height.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures.
      (1)   Drive-through service facilities;
      (2)   Radio and television satellite receiving antennas (satellite
dishes), provided that such satellite receiving antennas larger than 24 inches
in diameter shall be located in the side or rear yard or on the roof only;
      (3)   On-site signs, excluding billboards, related to permitted uses and
approved conditional uses, all subject to the regulations and requirements of §
153.080;
      (4)   Outdoor display of merchandise, provided such display shall not be
interpreted as meaning the storage, stockpiling or warehousing of materials
which are not immediately available for purchase;
      (5)   Residential dwelling units on the second or higher floors; and
      (6)   Accessory uses and structures customarily associated with and
incidental to the principal uses.
   (D)   Conditional uses and structures. After the provisions of §§
153.115 through
153.119 relating to conditional uses have been met, the following uses may be
allowed as conditional uses:
      (1)   Automobile service stations;
      (2)   Schools, colleges and similar private or public educational uses;
      (3)   Temporary uses in accordance with §
153.082;
      (4)   Other office, business and commercial service uses, determined by
the Village Board of Trustees, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission,
to be comparable with the other uses permitted as conditional uses in this
district, compatible with the uses permitted in the district and consistent
with the intent of this district; and
      (5)   Greenhouses, accessory uses and customarily associated with an
incidental to the principal uses on a lot which has an occupied operating
principal use retail business and cannot be constructed as a stand-alone
structure on any property, or constructed for personal use, and subject to all
the regulations and requirements of §
153.072.
         (a)   Framing should be of wood or metal framing materials intended
for greenhouse construction, including transparent glass clear light
transmitting rigid hard plastic glazed polycarbonate/polyethelene sheets.
Unacceptable greenhouse materials include: scrap windows, scrap lumber, scrap
metal, wood pallets, cattle/hog panels or like panel materials, tarps, rolled
plastic, canvas or materials which are considered non-permanent in their
manufacturing nature.
         (b)   Greenhouses must also be permanently attached or permanently
anchored in concrete footings no less than three feet deep or onto a permanent
concrete foundation along the parameter of the structure. Anchors must run
every four feet minimally along the structure base attached to footings or
foundation.
         (c)   Size allowable for a greenhouse is in accordance with §
153.044(H)(2)(d)2. and cannot cover more than 30% of lot.
         (d)   Such structures shall require the issuance of a building/zoning
permit or certificate of zoning compliance.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or authorized as conditional uses shall be
prohibited in this zoning district.
   (F)   Design standards. All new buildings and modification of existing
buildings in this zoning district shall be designed in a manner and use
construction materials consistent with the historic character of the Central
Business District in the village. The final design and construction materials
shall be approved by the Village Board of Trustees prior to the approval of any
zoning permit by the Zoning Administrator.
   (G)   Minimum lot area. No limitation.
   (H)   Minimum lot width and frontage. No limitation.
   (I)   Minimum yard requirements. The minimum yards or setbacks of any
building from a property line or street right-of-way line shall be as follows.
(Refer to §
153.061 for required minimum yard and setback regarding eaves, cornice
overhangs, awnings, balconies, exceptions and the like.)
      (1)   Front yard. Zero feet.
      (2)   Side yard. Zero feet, except where the lot line abuts a residential
zoning district, the minimum side yard shall be ten feet and a landscape
screen, as defined in §
153.004, shall be installed on the property line or within the side yard. In
determining the side yard requirements, such side yard may be measured to the
centerline of any abutting alley which is dedicated for public use.
      (3)   Rear yard. Zero feet, except where the lot line abuts a residential
zoning district, the minimum rear yard shall be 20 feet and a landscape screen,
as defined in §
153.004, shall be installed on the property line or within the rear yard. In
determining the rear yard requirements, such rear yard may be measured to the
centerline of any abutting alley which is dedicated for public use.
   (J)   Maximum height. The maximum height for any structure or building shall
be 50 feet.
   (K)   Maximum lot coverage. No limitation.
   (L)   Off-street parking and loading areas. The minimum number of off-street
parking spaces required for each use permitted or authorized as a conditional
use shall be in accordance with the requirements of §§
153.075 through
153.079.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.046 C-2, GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This district is intended primarily for application along the
major streets serving the village to provide areas for development of traffic-
oriented commercial uses offering goods and services to the motoring public and
the development of general business uses.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures.
      (1)   Uses permitted in the C-1 Central Business District;
      (2)   Sales, rental and display of automobiles, trucks, campers,
recreational vehicles, manufactured homes, boats and agricultural equipment,
provided that all servicing and maintenance shall be conducted entirely within
enclosed buildings;
      (3)   Automobile and tire service use, including auto or truck body
repair uses when all repair work and related storage is conducted in completely
enclosed buildings, but excluding the dismantling or salvaging of vehicles or
the storage of damaged or inoperable vehicles;
      (4)   Recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds;
      (5)   Commercial recreational facilities, such as miniature golf courses,
golf driving ranges, drive-in theaters, riding stables, museums, bowling alleys
and similar recreational uses;
      (6)   Car and truck wash uses;
      (7)   Special service uses such as model home displays and sales,
building material sales, non-livestock auction rooms, plant nurseries,
greenhouses, monument sales and similar special service uses;
      (8)   Animal feed and crop and garden seed sales uses;
      (9)   Raising of crops, pasturing of livestock (in accordance with any
other applicable village ordinances) and other open space agricultural uses,
but excluding agricultural production related grain bins and buildings or the
confined feeding of livestock;
      (10)   Orchards, vineyards and associated wineries, including the retail
sales of produce with the retail sales of food items, nursery stock and the
sales of Christmas trees;
      (11)   Wineries;
      (12)   Churches, temples and similar religious uses, excluding buildings
used all or in part as schools or for (non-religious) education of youth where
the education curriculum is similar to that of a public school; and
      (13)   Below-ground utility lines and above-ground utility installations
and structures, including local distribution lines, cable, poles and
appurtenances, below-ground and above-ground public utility water storage
tanks, distribution substations, regulator stations, communications equipment
buildings, but excluding storage or maintenance yards, buildings or
administrative offices for such utilities and excluding communications,
microwave, cellular communications or other towers in excess of 35 feet in
height.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures.
      (1)   Drive-through service facilities;
      (2)   Radio and television satellite receiving antennas (satellite
dishes), provided that such satellite receiving antennas larger than 24 inches
in diameter shall be located in the side or rear yard or on the roof only;
      (3)   On-site signs, including billboards, related to permitted uses and
approved conditional uses, all subject to the regulations and requirements of §
153.080;
      (4)   Outdoor display of merchandise, provided such display shall not be
interpreted as meaning the storage, stockpiling or warehousing of materials
which are not immediately available for purchase; and
      (5)   Accessory uses and structures customarily associated with and
incidental to the principal uses.
   (D)   Conditional uses and structures. After the provisions of §§
153.115 through
153.119 relating to conditional uses have been met, the following uses may be
allowed as conditional uses:
      (1)   Animal hospitals, veterinary clinics and kennels;
      (2)   Truck stops, including those with complete truck services;
      (3)   Temporary uses in accordance with §
153.082;
      (4)   Other office, business and commercial service uses, determined by
the Village Board of Trustees, upon recommendation by the Planning Commission,
to be comparable with the other uses permitted as conditional uses in this
district, compatible with the uses permitted in the district and consistent
with the intent of this district;
      (5)   Commercial service mini self-storage for the purpose of household
goods. Traditional storage unit materials will be allowed for construction;
however, the usage of storage containers, shipping containers or residential
buildings are prohibited. They must be constructed on concrete foundations.
Vacant housing units will not be allowed to serve as self-storage units; and
      (6)   Greenhouses, accessory uses and customarily associated with an
incidental to the principal uses on a lot which has an occupied, operating
principal use retail business, and cannot be constructed as a stand-alone
structure on any property, or constructed for personal use, and subject to all
the regulations and requirements of §
153.072.
         (a)   Framing should be of wood or metal framing materials intended
for greenhouse construction, including transparent glass clear light
transmitting rigid hard plastic glazed polycarbonate/polyethelene sheets.
Unacceptable greenhouse materials include: scrap windows, scrap lumber, scrap
metal, wood pallets, cattle/hog panels or like panel materials, tarps, rolled
plastic, canvas or materials which are considered non-permanent in their
manufacturing nature.
         (b)   Greenhouses must also be permanently attached or permanently
anchored in concrete footings no less than three feet deep or onto a permanent
concrete foundation along the parameter of the structure. Anchors must run
every four feet minimally along the structure base attached to footings or
foundation.
         (c)   Size allowable for a greenhouse is in accordance with §
153.044(H)(2)(d)2. and cannot cover more than 30% of lot.
         (d)   Such structures shall require the issuance of a building/zoning
permit or certificate of zoning compliance.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or authorized as conditional uses shall be
prohibited in this zoning district.
   (F)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   The minimum lot area for uses listed in division (B) above shall be
unrestricted, provided that each lot shall provide a marketable buildable area
and all building(s) thereon shall comply with the minimum width, yard, parking
and loading areas and maximum rear yard coverage requirements specified in this
district.
      (2)   The minimum lot area for conditional uses listed in division (D)
above shall be the area appropriate to each conditional use, as determined by
the Commission in its review, and authorization of each conditional use in
accordance with §§
153.115 through
153.119.
   (G)   Minimum lot width and frontage.
      (1)   The minimum lot width and frontage for uses listed in division (B)
above shall be unrestricted, provided that each lot shall provide a marketable
buildable area and all building(s) thereon shall comply with the minimum width,
yard, parking area and maximum rear yard coverage requirements specified in
this district.
      (2)   The minimum lot width and frontage for conditional uses listed in
division (D) above shall be the area appropriate to each conditional use, as
determined by the Commission in its review, and authorization of each
conditional use in accordance with §§
153.115 through
153.119.
   (H)   Minimum yard requirements. The minimum yards or setbacks of any
building from a property line or street right-of-way line shall be as follows.
(Refer to § 153.061 for required minimum yard and setback regarding eaves,
cornice overhangs, awnings, balconies, exceptions and the like.)
      (1)   Front yard. Thirty-five feet from a street designated on the
village’s major street plan as an arterial street and 25 feet from a street
designated as a collector street, local street or frontage road.
         (a)   For developed areas, as defined in §
153.004, the required front yard shall be the average of the existing front
yards, provided that in no event shall such front yard be less than 20 feet,
and further provided that where existing front yards exceed the required
minimum front yard, the minimum front yard requirement shall apply.
         (b)   A landscape buffer, as defined in §
153.004, at least five feet in depth shall be provided along and adjacent to
the front property line.
      (2)   Side yard. The minimum side yard shall be five feet where the lot
line abuts another commercial or industrial zoning district. Where the lot line
abuts a residential zoning district, the minimum side yard shall be 20 feet and
a landscape screen, as defined in §
153.004, shall be installed on the property line or within the side yard. In
determining the side yard requirements, such side yard may be measured to the
centerline of any abutting alley which is dedicated for public use.
      (3)   Rear yard. The minimum rear yard shall be five feet where the lot
line abuts another commercial or industrial zoning district. Where the lot line
abuts a residential zoning district, the minimum side yard shall be 20 feet and
a landscape screen, as defined in §
153.004, shall be installed on the property line or within the rear yard. In
determining the rear yard requirements, such rear yard may be measured to the
centerline of any abutting alley which is dedicated for public use.
   (I)   Maximum height. The maximum height for any structure or building shall
be 40 feet.
   (J)   Maximum lot coverage. No limitation.
   (K)   Off-street parking and loading areas. The minimum number of off-street
parking spaces required for each use permitted or authorized as a conditional
use shall be in accordance with the requirements of §§
153.075 through
153.079.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.047 I-1, LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This district is established to provide areas for a limited
range of industrial and certain commercial uses which are able to meet certain
performance standards to protect nearby non-commercial and non-industrial uses
from land use conflicts or undesirable environmental impacts and to protect
such industrial and commercial uses from negative impacts from other commercial
and industrial uses not able to meet the performance standards.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses.
      (1)   Wholesale, warehouse, distribution, storage and transfer businesses
meeting the performance requirements set forth in this I-1, Light Industrial
District;
      (2)   Engineering or research laboratories, vocational or industrial
training schools and data processing uses;
      (3)   Printing and lithography uses;
      (4)   Light industrial uses, including the manufacture, assembly,
processing, fabrication, cleaning, testing or refining of products, provided
such uses meet the performance requirements set forth in this I-1, Light
Industrial District;
      (5)   Cold storage and food locker establishments which meet the
performance requirements set for in this I-1, Light Industrial District;
      (6)   Automobile and truck repair and service business, including
automotive body and painting businesses which meet the performance requirements
set forth in this I-1, Light Industrial District;
      (7)   Trade shops, including plumbing, heating and air conditioning,
electrical, cabinetry and similar service trade uses which meet the performance
requirements of this I-1, Light Industrial District;
      (8)   Billboards and similar off-site signs in accordance with the
regulations of §
153.080;
      (9)   Below-ground utility lines and above-ground utility installations
and structures, including local distribution lines, cable, poles and
appurtenances, below-ground and above-ground public utility water storage
tanks, distribution substations, regulator stations, communications equipment
buildings, but excluding storage or maintenance yards, buildings or
administrative offices for such utilities and excluding communications,
microwave, cellular communications or other towers in excess of 35 feet in
height; and
      (10)   Use permitted in the C-2, General Commercial Zoning District.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   General office and sales rooms, medical and recreational facilities
and watchperson quarters associated with the permitted uses;
      (2)   Radio and television satellite receiving antennas (satellite
dishes), provided that such satellite receiving antennas larger than 24 inches
in diameter shall be located in the side or rear yard or on the roof only;
      (3)   On-site signs related to permitted uses and approved conditional
uses, subject to the regulations and requirements of §
153.080; and
      (4)   Accessory uses and structures customarily associated with and
incidental to the principal uses.
   (D)   Conditional uses and structures. After the provisions of §§
153.115 through
153.119 relating to conditional uses have been met, the following uses may be
allowed as conditional uses:
      (1)   Any use involving the storage, use or manufacture of hazardous or
explosive materials beyond that typically required for normal housecleaning and
maintenance activities;
      (2)   Heliports;
      (3)   Public service uses, including police and fire stations, offices,
equipment maintenance buildings and similar public uses;
      (4)   Garbage and refuse collection and disposal contractors and waste
recycling operations which meet the performance requirements of this I-1, Light
Industrial District;
      (5)   Communications, microwave, cellular communications or other towers
in excess of 35 feet in height, storage or maintenance yards, buildings or
administrative offices for such utility uses;
      (6)   Temporary uses in accordance with §
153.082; and
      (7)   Other industrial and commercial service uses, determined by the
Village Board of Trustees, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, to
be comparable with the other uses permitted as conditional uses in this
district, compatible with the uses permitted in the district and consistent
with the intent of this district.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or authorized as conditional uses shall be
prohibited in this zoning district.
   (F)   Performance standards. All uses permitted in this zoning district
shall at all times comply with the following performance standards.
      (1)   All activities shall be conducted within entirely enclosed
buildings, including storage or warehousing of raw materials or products
produced.
      (2)   Emission of gasses, odor, dust, smoke, noise, glare, heat or
vibration detectable beyond the property line of the site on which the use is
located is prohibited.
      (3)   Any waste materials produced on the premises shall be stored
outdoors, provided such materials are stored in containers which are not
visible from the street(s) on which the use has frontage or access or any
abutting residential zoning district and such containers will avoid the blowing
of waste material or the attraction of insects or vermin.
   (G)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   The minimum lot area for uses listed in division (B) above shall be
unrestricted, provided that each lot shall provide a marketable buildable area
and all building(s) thereon shall comply with the minimum width, yard, parking
and loading areas and maximum rear yard coverage requirements specified in this
district.
      (2)   The minimum lot area for conditional uses listed in division (D)
above shall be the area appropriate to each conditional use, as determined by
the Commission in its review, and authorization of each conditional use in
accordance with §§
153.115 through
153.119.
   (H)   Minimum lot width and frontage.
      (1)   The minimum lot width and frontage for uses listed in division (B)
above shall be unrestricted, provided that each lot shall provide a marketable
buildable area and all building(s) thereon shall comply with the minimum width,
yard, parking area and maximum rear yard coverage requirements specified in
this district.
      (2)   The minimum lot width and frontage for conditional uses listed in
division (D) above shall be the area appropriate to each conditional use, as
determined by the Commission in its review, and authorization of each
conditional use in accordance with §§
153.115 through
153.119.
   (I)   Minimum yard requirements. The minimum yards or setbacks of any
building from a property line or street right-of-way line shall be as follows.
(Refer to § 153.061 for required modifications to minimum yard and setback
regarding eaves, cornice overhangs, awnings, balconies, exceptions and the
like.)
      (1)   Front yard. Thirty-five feet from a street designated on the
village’s major street plan as an arterial street and 25 feet from a street
designated as a collector street, local street or frontage road.
         (a)   For developed areas, as defined in §
153.004, the required front yard shall be the average of the existing front
yards, provided that in no event shall such front yard be less than 20 feet,
and further provided that where existing front yards exceed the required
minimum front yard, the minimum front yard requirement shall apply.
         (b)   A landscape buffer, as defined in §
153.004, at least five feet in depth shall be provided along and adjacent to
the front property line.
      (2)   Side yard. The minimum side yard shall be 20 feet where the lot
line abuts an agricultural, commercial or industrial zoning district. Where the
lot line abuts a residential zoning district, the minimum side yard shall be 30
feet and a landscape screen, as defined in §
153.004, shall be installed on the property line or within the side yard. In
determining the side yard requirements, such side yard may be measured to the
centerline of any abutting alley which is dedicated for public use.
      (3)   Rear yard. The minimum rear yard shall be 20 feet where the lot
line abuts an agricultural, commercial or industrial zoning district. Where the
lot line abuts a residential zoning district, the minimum rear yard shall be 30
feet and a landscape screen, as defined in §
153.004, shall be installed on the property line or within the rear yard. In
determining the rear yard requirements, such rear yard may be measured to the
centerline of any abutting alley which is dedicated for public use.
   (J)   Maximum height. The maximum height for any structure or building shall
be 50 feet, except uses located within 100 feet of any residential zoning
district where such maximum height shall be 35 feet.
   (K)   Off-street parking and loading areas. The minimum number of off-street
parking spaces required for each use permitted or authorized as a conditional
use shall be in accordance with the requirements of §§
153.075 through
153.079.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.048 I-2, INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This district is established to provide areas for a wide range
of industrial and certain commercial uses which are able to meet certain
performance standards to protect nearby non-commercial and non-industrial uses
from land use conflicts or undesirable environmental impacts and to protect
such industrial and commercial uses from negative impacts from other uses which
would conflict with such industrial and commercial uses.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses.
      (1)   Any use permitted in the I-1, Light Industrial District;
      (2)   Contractor’s and construction equipment storage yards;
      (3)   Grain elevators, feed mills, alfalfa mills and similar agricultural
product processing mills, including ethanol production plants, and related
storage;
      (4)   Power production plants and facilities; and
      (5)   Any manufacturing or other industrial use which can meet the
performance standards set forth in this I-2 District and which is not listed as
a conditional use or prohibited use in this I-2 District.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   General office and sales rooms, medical and recreational facilities
and watchperson quarters associated with the permitted uses;
      (2)   Radio and television satellite receiving antennas (satellite
dishes), provided that such satellite receiving antennas larger than 24 inches
in diameter shall be located in the side or rear yard or on the roof only;
      (3)   On-site signs related to permitted uses and approved conditional
uses, subject to the regulations and requirements of §
153.080; and
      (4)   Accessory uses and structures customarily associated with and
incidental to the principal uses.
   (D)   Conditional uses and structures. After the provisions of §§
153.115 through
153.119 relating to conditional uses have been met, the following uses may be
allowed as conditional uses:
      (1)   Any use involving the storage, use or manufacture of hazardous or
explosive materials beyond that typically required for normal housecleaning and
maintenance activities;
      (2)   Heliports;
      (3)   Public service uses, including police and fire stations, offices,
equipment maintenance buildings and similar public uses;
      (4)   Electrical, natural gas and cable distribution substations,
regulator stations, communications equipment buildings, communications,
microwave, cellular communications or other towers in excess of 35 feet in
height, storage or maintenance yards, buildings or offices for such utility
uses, all subject to the applicable provisions of any airport hazard
regulations;
      (5)   Animal rendering, animal slaughtering plants, including curing and
tanning plants;
      (6)   Production of asphalt products, concrete and other paving
materials, including recycling of these and other construction materials;
      (7)   Tar, tar paper and tar product manufacturing or processing;
      (8)   Manufacture of chemicals, gases, poisons, insecticides and
herbicides;
      (9)   Storage, processing or salvaging of automobiles, trucks,
agricultural or other equipment, scrap and junk (junk or salvage yards);
      (10)   Livestock auction barns and yards;
      (11)   Bulk fuel and fertilizer plants;
      (12)   Sand, gravel, mineral, aggregate or production, screening,
crushing or processing operations;
      (13)   Sanitary landfills, waste incinerators, solid waste recycling and
composting operations; and
      (14)   Other industrial and commercial service uses determined by the
Village Board of Trustees, upon recommendation by the Planning Commission, to
be comparable with the other uses permitted as conditional uses in this
district, compatible with the uses permitted in the district and consistent
with the intent of this district.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or authorized as conditional uses shall be
prohibited in this zoning district.
   (F)   Performance standards. All uses permitted in this zoning district
shall at all times comply with the following performance standards.
      (1)   All activities, excluding those uses such as ethanol production
plants, cracking plants, fertilizer production plants or similar uses which
utilize production structures instead of buildings, not conducted within
entirely enclosed buildings, including storage or warehousing of raw materials
or products produced shall be screened from view from any abutting property not
included in an I-2, Industrial District in accordance with the requirements of
division (I) below.
      (2)   Emission of gasses, odor, noise, glare, heat, dust, smoke or
vibration detectable beyond the property line of the site on which the use is
located is prohibited shall not be of such quantity or concentration so as to
cause injury, detriment, nuisance or annoyance to any considerable number of
persons or the public in general.
      (3)   All activities involving the storage or salvaging of automobiles,
trucks, agricultural or other equipment and similar operations shall be
screened from view from all adjoining streets and all abutting properties not
included in an I-2, Industrial District by an opaque fence or evergreen tree
landscape screen, and said screen shall be maintained in good repair at all
times.
      (4)   Any waste materials produced on the premises shall be stored
outdoors, provided such materials are stored in containers which are not
visible from the street(s) on which the use has frontage or access or any
abutting residential zoning district and such containers will avoid the blowing
of waste material or the attraction of insects or vermin.
   (G)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   The minimum lot area for uses listed in division (B) above shall be
unrestricted, provided that each lot shall provide a marketable buildable area
and all building(s) thereon shall comply with the minimum width, yard, parking
and loading areas and maximum rear yard coverage requirements specified in this
district.
      (2)   The minimum lot area for conditional uses listed in division (D)
above shall be the area appropriate to each conditional use, as determined by
the Commission in its review, and authorization of each conditional use in
accordance with §§
153.115 through
153.119.
   (H)   Minimum lot width and frontage.
      (1)   The minimum lot width and frontage for uses listed in division (B)
above shall be unrestricted, provided that each lot shall provide a marketable
buildable area and all building(s) thereon shall comply with the minimum width,
yard, parking area and maximum rear yard coverage requirements specified in
this district.
      (2)   The minimum lot width and frontage for conditional uses listed in
division (D) above shall be the area appropriate to each conditional use, as
determined by the Commission in its review, and authorization of each
conditional use in accordance with §§
153.115 through
153.119.
   (I)   Minimum yard requirements. The minimum yards or setbacks of any
building from a property line or street right-of-way line shall be as follows.
(Refer to § 153.061 for required modifications to minimum yard and setback
regarding eaves, cornice overhangs, awnings, balconies, exceptions and the
like.)
      (1)   Front yard. Thirty-five feet from a street designated on the
village’s major street plan as an arterial street and 25 feet from a street
designated as a collector street, local street or frontage road.
         (a)   For developed areas, as defined in §
153.004, the required front yard shall be the average of the existing front
yards, provided that in no event shall such front yard be less than 20 feet,
and further provided that where existing front yards exceed the required
minimum front yard, the minimum front yard requirement shall apply.
         (b)   A landscape buffer, as defined in §
153.004, at least five feet in depth shall be provided along and adjacent to
the front property line.
      (2)   Side yard. The minimum side yard shall be 20 feet where the lot
line abuts an agricultural, commercial or industrial zoning district. Where the
lot line abuts a residential zoning district, the minimum side yard shall be 50
feet and a landscape screen, as defined in §
153.004, shall be installed on the property line or within the side yard. In
determining the side yard requirements, such side yard may be measured to the
centerline of any abutting alley which is dedicated for public use.
      (3)   Rear yard. The minimum rear yard shall be 20 feet where the lot
line abuts an agricultural, commercial or industrial zoning district. Where the
lot line abuts a residential zoning district, the minimum rear yard shall be 50
feet and a landscape screen, as defined in §
153.004, shall be installed on the property line or within the rear yard. In
determining the rear yard requirements, such rear yard may be measured to the
centerline of any abutting alley which is dedicated for public use.
   (J)   Maximum height. The maximum height for any structure or building shall
be 100 feet, except for uses located within 300 feet of any residential zoning
district where such maximum height shall be 40 feet.
   (K)   Off-street parking and loading areas. The minimum number of off-street
parking spaces required for each use permitted or authorized as a conditional
use shall be in accordance with the requirements of §§
153.075 through
153.079.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.049 WPO, WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this district is to provide the village with the
ability to protect the municipal water supply from contamination, as much as
possible, through the regulation of land uses which have the potential for
contamination of the groundwater source(s) from which municipal wells derive
water.
   (B)   Prerequisite requirements for application of this district. Prior to
the application of this district to any lands in the village or its one-mile
jurisdictional area, the village shall first comply with all other requirements
of the Wellhead Protection Areas Act (Neb. RS 46-1501 through 46-1509). This
requirement includes the following:
      (1)   Delineation of the wellhead protection area based upon a 20-year
time of travel recharge zone;
      (2)   Approval of such wellhead protection area by the State Department
of Environmental Quality;
      (3)   Completion and mapping of an inventory of potential contamination
sources within the wellhead protection area;
      (4)   Formulation of emergency/contingency/long-range plans in the event
of disruption of supply of water from the wells in the wellhead protection
area;
      (5)   Formulation of and ability to implement an ongoing public
involvement/education program to permit public comment in the establishment of
the wellhead protection program and to provide information to the public
regarding the program and voluntary cooperation with said program; and
      (6)   Development of a program to install and maintain wellhead
protection area signs on roadways around the wellhead protection area.
   (C)   Limitation on application of this district. This district may be
applied only to wellhead protection areas officially approved by the State
Department of Environmental Quality. In the event the boundaries of any such
officially approved wellhead protection areas do not follow easily identifiable
boundaries, such as roads, rivers, creeks, section, quarter section or quarter-
quarter section lines, the boundaries of such area shall be expanded to the
nearest such lines to avoid confusion and added administrative costs associated
with in-the-field determination of such boundaries.
   (D)   Amendment of official zoning map. Whenever the requirements of
division (B) above have been complied with, and the Planning Commission and
Village Board of Trustees have conducted public hearings regarding application
of this overlay zoning district in accordance with §§
153.165 through
153.169, and the Village Board of Trustees has acted to approve a Wellhead
Protection Overlay District, the boundaries of such wellhead protection area
(overlay zoning district), defined in accordance with division (C) above, shall
be indicated on the official zoning map and such map shall be signed in
accordance with the requirements of §
153.038.
   (E)   Allowable, permitted and accessory uses and structures. Any use or
structure indicated as an allowable use, permitted use or accessory use in the
primary zoning district(s) on which this Wellhead Protection Overlay District
is overlain, shall be allowed or permitted in accordance with the zoning permit
requirements set forth in such primary zoning district(s), except when
specifically prohibited in division (G) below and except when an otherwise
allowable, permitted or accessory use is listed as a conditional use in
division (H) below. All such allowable, permitted and accessory uses shall
comply with the additional wellhead protection restrictions set forth in
division (H) below.
   (F)   Conditional uses. Any use listed as a conditional use in the primary
zoning district(s) on which this Wellhead Protection Overlay District is
overlain, except the uses specifically prohibited in division (G) below, may be
authorized as a conditional use in accordance with the requirements and
procedures specified in §§
153.115 through
153.119, provided the authorization of any conditional use shall comply with
the additional wellhead protection restrictions set forth in division (H)
below.
   (G)   Prohibited uses and structures. Uses and structures, which are
prohibited in the primary zoning district(s) on which this district is
overlain, shall be prohibited and, regardless of whether prohibited in the
primary zoning district(s), the following uses and structures shall be
specifically prohibited on any land area on which this Wellhead Protection
Overlay District is applied:
      (1)   Confined animal feeding uses and associated waste handling facility
uses; and
      (2)   Landfills and refuse recycling centers.
   (H)   Wellhead area protection requirements. The following restrictions
shall apply to all uses within any land areas on which this Wellhead Protection
Overlay District is applied:
      (1)   Storage of gasoline, diesel fuel, fuel oil or other similar fuels,
whether on a farm or ranch or in association with another land use, shall
comply with the rules and regulations of Titles 126 and 159, administered by
the State Department of Environmental Quality or other responsible agency or
department. Storage of gasoline, diesel fuel, fuel oil or other similar fuels,
whether on a farm or ranch or other land area, in excess of 1,100 gallons shall
be prohibited.
      (2)   Fuel storage associated with any irrigation well engine shall be
equipped with a containment area in accordance with the National Fire
Protection Association Code 30 and with 126 NAC, administered by the State
Department of Environmental Quality, in the event of a fuel release.
      (3)   Fuel storage, except when associated with a commercial or
industrial use, except for any fuel storage associated with any irrigation well
engines (see division (H)(2) above) shall not be permitted within 1,000 feet of
any well protected under this Wellhead Protection Overlay District.
      (4)   Storage of fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides and other materials,
determined by the United States Environmental Protection Agency to be hazardous
materials, shall be prohibited, except when a conditional use for such use is
authorized and such authorization includes a condition that all such uses shall
comply with the applicable rules and regulations of Title 118, 126, 128 and
198, administered by the State Department of Environmental Quality and other
agencies.
      (5)   No septic tank, tile field or other on-site sewage disposal system,
associated with any residential, commercial, industrial or other type of land
use, shall be located within 1,000 feet of any well protected under this
Wellhead Protection Overlay District, provided that if a lot of record, as
defined in §
153.004, exists as of the effective date of application of this Wellhead
Protection Overlay District, and the entirety of said lot of record lies within
the land area on which this Wellhead Protection Overlay District is applied,
one septic tank and tile field or other on-site sewage disposal system may be
established, provided such tank, tile field or other system complies with all
requirements of Title 124 of the State Department of Environmental Quality.
      (6)   Domestic, irrigation and any other water wells shall not be located
closer than 1,000 feet of any well protected under this Wellhead Protection
Overlay District, provided that if a lot of record, as defined in §
153.004, exists as of the effective date of application of this Wellhead
Protection Overlay District, and the entirety of said lot of record lies within
the land area on which this Wellhead Protection Overlay District is applied,
one well may be established, provided such well shall be constructed in
accordance with the rules and requirements of Title 178.
      (7)   Any application of fertilizers, pesticides or herbicides to the
land or crops through an irrigation system (chemigation) shall comply with the
rules and requirements of Title 195.
      (8)   If any land area contained within a wellhead protection overlay
zoning district is also part of a special protection area or groundwater
management area, established under the Nebraska Ground Water Management and
Protection Act, being Neb. RS 46-701 to 46-756, all uses within such areas,
including agricultural uses, shall comply with the action plan and best
management practices established for such areas by the local Natural Resource
District(s).
   (I)   Minimum lot area requirements. The minimum lot area for any lot in
this overlay district shall be as set forth in the primary zoning district(s)
on which this district is overlain.
   (J)   Minimum lot area and frontage requirements. The minimum lot width and
frontage for any lot in this overlay district shall be as set forth in the
primary zoning district(s) on which this district is overlain.
   (K)   Minimum building setback requirements. The minimum setback for all
regulated structures and buildings in this overlay district shall be as set
forth in the primary zoning district(s) on which this district is overlain,
provided that the minimum setback requirements from protected wells shall also
be complied with.
   (L)   Maximum height. The maximum height of any building or structure shall
be as set forth in the primary zoning district on which this district is
overlain.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/84c4ff8f122b5d9e84c31e6a93e51ec3fb316588/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1064.png]
 
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
**** SUPPLEMENTAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS ****
§ 153.060 APPLICATION.
   The regulations set forth in the following sections qualify and supplement
all zoning district regulations and are declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.061 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum yards shall be required along all public and private streets
as set forth in the zoning district regulations. Any yard abutting a street
shall be deemed a front yard for purposes of determining yard requirements.
   (B)   No principal or accessory building or structure or part thereof,
except those structures listed in §
153.062, shall project into a required front, side or rear yard.
   (C)   No eave, cornice overhang, awning, balcony, sills, lintels, chimneys
or other similar architectural features of any building shall project into a
required front, side or rear yard.
   (D)   No unenclosed or enclosed steps, porch, entrance platform, ramp,
terrace, landing, deck or similar above grade structure shall project into a
required front, side or rear yard. (Refer to §
153.062(B).)
   (E)   Any setback (yard) so placed or oriented that none of the specific
setback definitions contained in this chapter are applicable shall necessitate
a determination by the Zoning Administrator of a suitable setback (yard)
dimension which will be consistent with the intent of the setback (yard)
requirements within the applicable zoning district.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.062 YARD EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   At-grade patios, driveways, parking areas, loading areas and similar
at-grade surfacing shall be permitted to encroach into any yard, and such
surfaced areas shall not be included in the calculation of maximum lot coverage
as set forth in each zoning district regulation.
   (B)   Awnings and projecting business signs in the C-2, Central Business
District shall be permitted to encroach into a front yard, provided that the
bottom of such awnings or signs shall not be less than 80 inches from ground
level.
   (C)   Signs within the required yards when developed in accordance with the
requirements of §
153.080.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the requirements of §
153.061(D), structural canopies for drive-through entrances to multi-family,
group housing, assisted living, hospitals, nursing homes, convalescent centers
and canopies associated with commercial uses, except open air businesses and
canopies over fuel pumps as regulated in §
153.073(B), shall be permitted to encroach on a front yard, but shall not
extend closer than 12 feet to the front lot line.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.063 FENCES AND WALLS.
   (A)   No fence or wall shall be constructed or moved until a zoning permit
has been issued for such fence or wall, provided that no such permit shall be
required to construct a fence within the AG, Agricultural District for the
purpose of containing of livestock.
   (B)   Any fence or wall shall be constructed so as to have the finished side
facing adjacent property and street frontage or such fence shall be constructed
to have the same finish on both sides.
   (C)   Ornamental fences, open fences, screen fences, walls, structural
screens and shrubs used to create a natural fence or screen shall be permitted
in any required yard, provided that any such fence, wall, screen or shrubs used
to create a natural fence or screen located in a front yard shall not exceed a
height of 42 inches as measured by perpendicular measured from the nearest
ground level. All such fences, walls or structural screens shall comply with
the requirements of §
153.069 with regard to driver visibility at street intersections.
   (D)   The maximum fence, free-standing wall or screen height along any side
or rear yard shall be six feet, as determined by perpendicular measurement from
the nearest ground level. All such fences, walls or structural screens shall
comply with the requirements of §
153.069 with regard to driver visibility at street intersections.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the
erection and maintenance of an open fence or chain link fence in connection
with an agricultural use, recreational use or public safety and security fences
in any nonresidential district. An open fence shall be defined as having at
least 50% unobstructed openings per square foot and any such fence shall comply
with the requirements of §
153.069 with regard to driver visibility at street intersections.
   (F)   The use of any electrified or barbed wire fence in residential
district shall be prohibited. Use of such fences may be used on top of fencing
used as security fencing on public grounds or on private land in commercial and
industrial districts and for agricultural purposes for containing livestock in
the AG, Agricultural District.
   (G)   Fences and walls may be permitted in any required yard if they conform
to the following regulations.
      (1)   Building permits must be applied for and approved and must comply
with provisions of this section.
      (2)   All fences and walls shall conform to the construction standards
and other applicable ordinances and resolutions. Correct posts shall be used in
each application of fence installation according to the material chosen and
construction standards for such fence and shall be permanent.
      (3)   All fences in all districts shall be structurally sound with a neat
and finished appearance and shall be straight and true and maintained in good
repair and finish from the time they are erected and in place until they are
removed.
      (4)   No fence or wall shall be constructed in such a manner or be of
such design as to be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals by intent of
its construction or by inadequate maintenance.
      (5)   Allowed and prohibited materials are as follows.
         (a)   Residential district.
            1.   Allowable material: fences and walls shall be made of quality,
durable materials that require low maintenance. Acceptable materials include
chain link, wood manufactured and intended for fencing, brick, masonry block,
stone, tubular steel, wrought iron, vinyl/PVC/composite material or other
manufactured material or combination of material intended for fencing. Solid
metal panel if only framed by wood or metal and capped with matching metal trim
to cover all rough/sharp edge.
            2.   Prohibited materials: fences or walls shall not be made of or
contain:
               a.   Scrap materials such as scrap lumber, pallets and scrap
metal; and
               b.   Materials not typically used, manufactured or designated
for residential fencing, such as corrugated or galvanized roofing metal, tarps,
plywood or livestock fencing materials.
         (b)   Commercial and industrial.
            1.   Allowable materials: fences and walls shall be made of
quality, durable materials that require minimal maintenance. Acceptable
materials for fencing in commercial and industrial districts include, but shall
not be limited to: chain link, pre-woven chain link with slats, wood
manufactured and intended for fending, brick, tilt-up concrete, masonry block,
stone, metal, vinyl/PVC/composite material or other manufactured material or
combination of material intended for fencing or walls. Solid metal panel if
only framed by wood or metal and capped with matching metal trim to cover all
rough/sharp edge.
            2.   Prohibited materials: fences or walls in commercial or
industrial districts shall not be constructed of or contain:
               a.   Scrap materials such as scrap lumber, pallets and scrap
metal; and
               b.   Materials not typically used, manufactured or designated
for fencing such as corrugated or galvanized roofing metal, tarps, plywood or
livestock fencing materials.
            3.   Commercial and industrial districts: maximum height of fences
and walls shall be eight feet. When industry standards for certain types of
businesses require fences or walls of greater heights, the Zoning Administrator
in his or her discretion may allow greater heights.
      (6)   Temporary or moveable fences shall require a permit.
      (7)   Fences in existence as of the effective date of this chapter must
be constructed pursuant to a permit issued and approved by the village which
was in conformity with the prior provisions of this section and which was in
place as of said date, may remain without change in accordance with this
section notwithstanding same may be in conflict with one or more provisions of
this section as amended; provided, however, and replacement or change of said
existing fence or addition of a new fence, must hereby meet the requirements of
this section as amended hereby.
   (H)   (1)   Retaining walls shall not be limited in height but shall be
constructed so that such wall is structurally sound for the height and type of
material being retained. Retaining walls shall be constructed only of concrete,
wood, steel or retaining wall blocks or combination thereof. Use of any other
material shall be prohibited.
      (2)   The location of any such retaining wall shall comply with the
requirements of §
153.069 with regard to driver visibility at street intersections.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.064 HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
   The height limitations set forth in the zoning district regulations shall
not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, parapets, grain elevators, silos, grain
legs, antennas, water towers, ventilators, chimneys or other roof appurtenance
usually required to be placed above the roof level, provided that said
appurtenance is not intended for human habitation and that appurtenances such
as towers for mechanical or structural necessity with a roof area equal to or
in excess of 50% of the first floor area of the building shall be considered
part of the regulated height of the building.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.065 BUILDING RELOCATION.
   No building or structure shall be moved from one lot or premises for
location on another lot or premises unless such building or structure shall
thereupon conform with the regulations of the zoning district in which such
building or structure is to be located.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.066 BULK STORAGE OF CERTAIN MATERIALS.
   In any zoning district any building, structure or above-ground tank used for
the bulk storage of any poisonous or explosive material shall be located at
least 100 feet from any property line.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.067 STRUCTURES TO HAVE ACCESS.
   Every building hereafter erected or moved, with the exception of
nonresidential agricultural structures located in the AG, Agricultural Zoning
District, shall be on a lot or premises which fronts on a public or approved
private street or shall be accessible by means of a recorded access easement at
least 20 feet in width to provide safe and convenient access for servicing,
fire protection and required off-street parking.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.068 PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge or control of any
property within the village or its one-mile planning and zoning jurisdictional
area, as indicated on the official zoning map, whether as owner, tenant,
occupant, lessee or otherwise, to park, store or place any non-operating,
wrecked, junked, partially dismantled or unregistered vehicle or new vehicle
parts, used parts of junked or salvaged vehicles on such property. This section
shall not apply to a vehicle, new vehicle parts or used parts of junked or
salvaged vehicles stored or placed in an enclosed building on the premises, a
vehicle or new vehicle parts or used parts of junked or salvaged vehicles on
the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and in a
manner when necessary to the lawful operation of such business enterprise, or a
vehicle, new vehicle parts or used parts of junked or salvaged vehicles on the
premises under the control of a person who has obtained a hobbyist permit for
the restoration of said vehicle. Further, the following exceptions shall apply.
      (1)   New or used vehicles in transition of becoming registered and duly
licensed operable vehicles with substantially all main component parts
attached, provided such vehicles shall be parked, stored or placed in a garage,
carport or driveway or other space intended for such use.
      (2)   Not more than one vehicle, which is properly insured and licensed
but is temporarily inoperable due to minor mechanical failure but which is not
in any manner dismantled and has substantially all main component parts
attached, shall remain upon a premises for longer than ten consecutive calendar
days.
      (3)   Not more than one vehicle in fully operational condition, such as a
stock car or modified care that has been redesigned or reconstructed for a
purpose other than that for which it was manufactured, shall be parked on any
premises, provided that no building or garage is located on the premises in
which the same could be parked or stored. In no event shall any such vehicle be
parked in the front or side yard of any residential premises.
   (B)   No repairing, modifying or dismantling work or operation shall be
conducted on any vehicle or parts thereof upon any public right-of-way, whether
improved or not, or other public property. Further, no repairing, modifying or
dismantling work or operation shall be conducted on any vehicle or parts on any
premises used or zoned for residential purposes for a period in excess of 24
hours, except such as shall be accomplished with a hobbyist permit as may be
issued by the village.
   (C)   Storage or parking of licensed recreational vehicles, trailers and
boats shall be in a garage, carport or behind the nearest portion of a building
to a street, provided that not more than two such vehicles shall be parked or
stored in an open space, defined as the horizontal area of a premises excluding
the building area(s).
   (D)   A recreational vehicle, trailer or boat may be parked outside of an
enclosed structure in the required front yard, on a concrete driveway or its
equivalent, or on an undeveloped lot under the following conditions.
      (1)   Open space is unavailable in the rear or side yards of the
developed property and there is reasonable vehicular access to either the rear
or side yards. A corner lot shall always be deemed to have reasonable access to
a side yard and a fence is not deemed to prevent reasonable access.
      (2)   The recreational vehicle, trailer or boat shall be parked not less
than two feet from the front property line or side lot line.
      (3)   No part of a recreational vehicle, trailer or boat shall extend
over a public sidewalk or public right-of-way.
      (4)   On an undeveloped lot, not more than two such vehicles shall be
permitted to be parked or stored.
      (5)   Parking is permitted for storage only and any recreational vehicle,
trailer or boat shall not be:
         (a)   Used for dwelling purposes for more than 14 days in a calendar
year;
         (b)   Permanently connected to sewer lines, water lines or to
electrical lines except for temporary connection to electrical lines for
charging batteries; and
         (c)   Used for storage or goods, materials, junk or other items other
than those considered to be a part of the unit or essential for its immediate
use.
      (6)   A self-propelled recreational vehicle may be parked next to the
curb of a public street in front of the premises of the owner of such vehicle,
provided such vehicle shall not be parked for a period exceeding 24 hours.
      (7)   A non-powered recreation vehicle or trailer may be parked next to
the curb of a public street in front of the premises of the owner of such
vehicle or trailer if attached to the towing vehicle, provided such vehicle
shall not be parked for a period exceeding 24 hours.
   (E)   Provisions for notice of violation and penalties for violation are as
follows.
      (1)   If a violation of this section occurs, the Zoning Administrator
shall issue a notice of violation to any person in charge of control of such
premises or shall post a notice of violation on said premises. Such notice of
violation shall indicate the nature of the violation, the date of issuance and
shall indicate that the person in charge or control of such premises shall have
either:
         (a)   Seven calendar days from the date of issuance of the notice of
violation to eliminate such violation if the maximum storage or parking period
set forth in this section exceeds 24 hours; or
         (b)   Twenty-four hours from the date of issuance of the notice of
violation to eliminate such violation if the maximum storage or parking period
set forth in this section is 24 hours or less.
      (2)   Failure to eliminate such violation shall be a violation of this
chapter and shall be punishable in accordance with §
153.999.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.069 STREET INTERSECTION VISIBILITY.
   On any corner lot in any zoning district, except the C-1, Central Business
District, no building, fence, wall, structure or other obstruction shall be
placed or maintained between a height of three and one-half feet and eight feet
above the centerline grades of the intersecting streets within the triangular
area formed by the intersecting street right-of-way lines and a line connecting
points on said right-of-way line which is 25 feet from the intersection of said
right-of-way lines.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.070 ONE PRIMARY STRUCTURE PER LOT.
   (A)   Not more than one primary structure shall be located on a single lot,
except where primary structures are designed and platted as a single entity,
under single ownership and control, such as multi-family and clustered
residential developments, townhouse development or shopping centers and lots
located in recognized industrial parks.
   (B)   The primary structure must be a residential unit or day-to-day
operating business.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.071 EASEMENTS.
   No building or structure shall be placed or erected on or over any utility
easements, except for structures associated with such utility easements.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.072 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses shall be incidental to, subordinate to and commonly
associated with the principal use of the premises, shall only be permitted if
the property contains a primary habitable and occupied structure as zoned and
shall be operated and maintained under the same ownership and on the same lot
as the principal use.
   (B)   Accessory uses shall be subordinate to the principal structure on the
lot in height, area, bulk, extent and purpose, shall not be located closer to
any lot line than set forth in the minimum yard requirements for the zoning
district in which it is located and shall be included in the calculation of
maximum lot coverage regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
   (C)   Accessory uses shall be permitted only after the erection and
operation of the principal structure and shall not be used unless the principal
structure is being used on a full-time basis. Addition of an accessory unit to
a property that has no existing structure on it, is not occupied and/or
habitable and not used for its intended purpose will not be allowed.
   (D)   Accessory uses for residential uses and commercial uses shall include
swimming pools; provided, that such swimming pools require a zoning/building
permit and shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Swimming pools associated with residential uses shall be located in
the side and/or rear yard. Swimming pools associated with commercial uses may
be located any yard.
      (2)   Swimming pools and related decks and landings shall comply with the
minimum setback requirements in all yards for accessory building and
structures.
      (3)   Swimming pools shall be considered part of any required open space
and shall not be considered lot coverage.
      (4)   No swimming pool shall be constructed until adequate provisions for
drainage of the pool, which will avoid drainage onto neighboring properties,
have been made and adequate distance from overhead electrical wires and
electrical appurtenances is provided.
      (5)   All swimming pools shall be enclosed by a substantial fence, wall
or other barrier which shall be adequate to prevent unauthorized entrance to
the pool and pool area by persons or animals. Such fenced or walled area shall
be at minimum of five feet in height and shall be equipped with a self-closing,
self-latching gate which is lockable.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.073 OPEN AIR BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Any business establishment where the principal use is the drive-in
type or is generally characterized by open air operations shall be permitted to
locate such open air aspects of the business in the front yard, provided that a
landscape buffer, as defined in §
153.004, at least ten feet in width shall be provided along the front property
line.
   (B)   For convenience stores and other businesses dispensing gasoline or
other fuels at retail, pump islands shall be permitted no closer than 20 feet
to the front property line and any canopy covering such pump islands shall not
extend closer than 12 feet to the front property line.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.074 HOME OCCUPATIONS AND HOME BASED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A home occupation or home based business may be permitted to accompany
any residential use only after the issuance of an occupancy permit by the
Zoning Administrator and such permit shall be issued only if the home
occupation or home based business complies in all respects to the requirements
of this section.
   (B)   A home occupation or home based business shall be of a personal or
professional service nature, and such home occupations or home based business
shall not change the residential character of the premises or the structures
thereon or interfere with the residential use of adjoining residential uses or
residential uses across the street of the premises. No provision for additional
off-street parking or loading facilities other than those which would normally
be accessory to the residential use shall be permitted and on-street parking
for customers of such home occupation or home based business shall be limited
to those on-street parking spaces located on the same side of the street and
along the frontage of the lot or premises where such home occupation or
business is located. In instances where on-street parking is prohibited on one
or both sides of the street, customer parking shall be limited to the off-
street parking on the premises.
   (C)   The principal use of the premises shall be for residential purposes,
and the owner and operator of the home occupation or home based business shall
be the occupant of the residential dwelling on the premises.
   (D)   The owner/operator of the home occupation or home based business shall
not employ more than one employee other than members of the immediate family of
the owner/operator who reside on the premises.
   (E)   No exterior alteration which would change the residential appearance
of the residential dwelling structure or any accessory building, including the
use of lighted canopies, shall be permitted.
   (F)   If the home occupation or home based business is located in the
residential dwelling structure, such use shall not occupy more than 25% of the
floor area of such structure. A home occupation or home based business may be
conducted in an accessory building, provided such building is clearly a
building that is accessory to the residential use.
   (G)   No additional or separate entrance which is inconsistent with the use
of the residential dwelling structure shall be constructed solely for the
purpose of conducting such home occupation or home based business.
   (H)   No display of goods or exterior evidence of the home occupation or
home based business shall be permitted, except for one non-animated, non-
illuminated, non-flashing sign which identifies the occupation business. Said
sign shall not exceed a total of ten square feet in area and shall be attached
flat against a wall of the residential dwelling structure or accessory
structure in which the occupation or business is conducted. No temporary or
movable signs of any type shall be used in conjunction with any such occupation
or business.
   (I)   No equipment of process shall be used which creates noise, vibration,
glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference detectable off the premises of
such home occupation or home based business.
   (J)   No stock in trade or products, other than those used, manufactured,
assembled, produced or created on the premises shall be sold on the premises,
provided that a stocking of products to be sold where the operator of the home
occupation or business delivers such products to the purchaser, and the number
of customers visiting the location of the home occupation business to pick up
such products is limited to a total of four per day.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.075 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Accessory off-street parking facilities, including parking facilities
for persons with a disability as required under the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., shall be provided and maintained
for all buildings, structures or premises used in whole or in part for purposes
permitted by this chapter in accordance with the provisions of this section,
which are designed to alleviate or prevent congestion of public streets by
establishing minimum requirements for on-site and off-site parking areas for
motor vehicles consistent with the parking needs of the use on each premises.
   (B)   No use lawfully existing at the date of adoption of this chapter or
amendment thereto shall be required to provide or maintain the parking spaces
required in this section, provided that off-street parking spaces required by
any previous ordinance shall be provided and maintained and further provided
that if the number of existing off-street parking spaces which are in excess of
any prior ordinance, but less than the number required by this chapter shall be
maintained.
   (C)   For any nonconforming structure which is hereafter damaged or
partially destroyed and which is lawfully reconstructed, reestablished or
repaired, off-street parking spaces equivalent to those maintained on the
premises at the time of such damage shall be restored and maintained, provided
that in no case shall it be required to restore off-street parking spaces in
excess of those required by this chapter for the use on the premises.
   (D)   If the intensity of use of any building, structure or premises shall
be increased through the addition of dwelling units, floor area, beds, seating
capacity or other means which will have the effect of increasing the need for
parking spaces, the number of additional off-street parking spaces required by
this chapter for such additions shall be provided.
   (E)   Whenever, the existing use of a building, structure or premises shall
hereafter be changed or converted to another use, off-street parking spaces
required by this chapter for such new use shall be provided on the premises,
except that this requirement shall not apply to a change of use in the C-1,
Central Business District.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the voluntary establishment of
accessory off-street parking facilities to serve any existing use, provided
that all requirements with regard to location, design, landscape screening or
buffering are complied with.
   (G)   Off-street parking spaces shall be provided in one or more areas on
the same lot or premises as the use served, except as otherwise provided in
this chapter.
   (H)   Off-street parking spaces required herein shall be utilized solely for
the parking of passenger automobiles or light trucks of less than one ton
capacity of employees, occupants or customers, and such spaces shall not be
used for the storage or display of materials or products or the repair or
dismantling of any material.
   (I)   Required off-street loading areas shall not be construed as being part
of any required off-street parking area.
   (J)   Each required off-street parking space shall be at least eight and
one-half feet in width and at least 20 feet in length, exclusive of access
drives or aisles, ramps, columns or work areas, provided that the minimum
length of any parallel parking space shall be 23 feet, and further provided
that parking space dimensions for persons with a disability shall be as set
forth in division (K) below. Such parking spaces shall have adequate vertical
clearance to allow each space to be used for parking.
   (K)   In conformance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., (ADA) and the state accessibility guidelines, if
parking spaces are provided for self-parking by employees or visitors or both,
then parking spaces for those with disabilities shall be provided in each
parking area in conformance with the number of such spaces herein specified and
the following requirements.
      (1)   Number of disabled accessible parking spaces.
Total Parking Spaces Required Minimum Number of Disabled Accessible Parking
                                      Spaces
Total Parking Spaces Required Minimum   Number of Disabled Accessible Parking
                                        Spaces
1 - 25                                  1
26 - 50                                 2
51 - 75                                 3
76 - 100                                4
101 - 150                               5
151 - 200                               6
201 - 300                               7
301 - 400                               8
401 - 500                               9
501 - 1,000                             2% of the total
1,001 and over                          20 plus one for each 100 over 1,000
At facilities providing medical care and other services for persons with
mobility impairments, parking accessible parking spaces in compliance with
this section shall be provided as follows:
Outpatient facilities                   10% of the total spaces
Facilities specializing in treatment or
services for persons with mobility      20% of the total spaces
impairments
 
      (2)   Location of disabled accessible parking spaces. Accessible parking
spaces serving a particular building shall be located on the shortest
accessible route of travel from the parking area to an accessible entrance. In
parking facilities which do not serve a particular building, accessible parking
shall be located on the shortest accessible route of travel to an accessible
entrance of the parking facility. In buildings with multiple accessible
entrances with adjacent parking areas, accessible parking spaces shall be
dispersed and located closest to the accessible entrances.
      (3)   Signage. Signage of accessible parking spaces shall be designated
as reserved by a sign showing a symbol of accessibility. Spaces complying with
division (K)(4) below shall have an additional “van accessible” sign mounted
below the symbol of accessibility. Such signs shall be located so they cannot
be obscured by a vehicle parked in the space.
      (4)   Access aisles.
         (a)   One in every eight disabled accessible parking spaces, but not
less than one space, shall be served by an access aisle at least eight feet
wide and shall be designated “van accessible.” The vertical clearance shall be
at least the minimum specified in division (K)(7) below. All such spaces may be
grouped on one level of a parking structure. Parking access aisles shall be
part of an accessible route to the building or facility entrance. Two
accessible parking spaces may share a common access aisle.
         (b)   Parked vehicle overhangs shall not reduce the clear width of an
accessible route. Parking spaces and access aisles shall be level with slopes
not exceeding 1:50 (2%) in all directions.
      (5)   Valet parking. If valet parking services and facilities are
provided, a passenger loading zone complying with division (K)(6) below,
located on an accessible route to the entrance of the facility served, shall be
provided.
      (6)   Passenger loading zones. If passenger loading zones are provided in
association with any use, at least one passenger loading zone shall provide an
access aisle at least five feet wide and 20 feet long adjacent and parallel to
the vehicle pull-up space. If there are curbs between the access aisle and the
vehicle pull-up space, a curb ramp complying with accessibility standards shall
be provided. Vehicle standing spaces and access aisles shall be level with
surface slopes not exceeding 1:50 (2%) in all directions.
      (7)   Minimum vertical clearance. Minimum vertical clearance of 114
inches at accessible passenger loading zones and along at least one vehicle
route to such areas from the site entrance(s) and exit(s) shall be provided. At
parking spaces complying with division (K)(4) above a minimum vertical
clearance of 98 inches at the parking space and along at least one vehicle
access to such space from the site entrance(s) and exit(s) shall be provided.
   (L)   All driveways or other areas used to satisfy the off-street parking
requirement shall be surfaced with gravel, crushed rock or paved with asphalt
or concrete.
   (M)   Off-street parking areas may be provided in the required front yard,
except as otherwise restricted in this chapter, provided that any landscape
buffer or landscape screen required by the applicable zoning district
regulations shall be provided along the front property line.
   (N)   Except for single-family and two-family dwellings, each required off-
street parking space shall open directly upon a drive aisle of sufficient
width, as set forth and illustrated below, to provide safe and efficient means
of vehicular access to and from such parking spaces, and such drive aisle shall
be unobstructed and allow for passage of emergency vehicles.
Parking Angle* Minimum Required Aisle Width
Parking Angle* Minimum Required Aisle Width
(in degrees)   (in feet)
less than 45   12
45             14
60             18
90             24
Notes to Table:
* Angle shall be measured between center line of parking space and centerline
of drive aisle.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/84c4ff8f122b5d9e84c31e6a93e51ec3fb316588/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1066.png]
 
   (O)   The minimum off-street parking spaces required in association with the
various uses permitted under this chapter shall be as follows.
Use Description Off-Street Parking Spaces Required
Use Description                         Off-Street Parking Spaces Required
                                        No requirement, except for roadside
                                        stands for the sale of produce shall be
                                        provided with an adequate number of
                                        off-street parking spaces so that
Agricultural uses                       parking does not occur on a public
                                        roadway and for residential uses
                                        associated with an agricultural use
                                        which shall comply with the parking
                                        requirements for such residential use
                                        as set forth herein
Amusement establishments, public        One parking space for each 500 square
swimming pools, golf courses, bowling   feet of floor area or five parking
alleys, skating rinks and similar       spaces for each hole or alley, or 100
recreational uses                       square feet of water surface area,
                                        whichever is greater
                                        One parking space for each independent
                                        dwelling unit and one-half space for
Assisted living and hospice housing     each dependent dwelling unit plus one
                                        parking space per employee per largest
                                        working shift
                                        One parking space for each employee per
Automobile or truck service stations or largest working shift plus two parking
repair businesses                       spaces for each automobile or truck
                                        service stall
Bed and breakfast businesses            One parking space for each two lodging
                                        rooms
                                        One parking space for each six students
Boarding schools, vocational and trade  based upon the maximum number of
schools colleges and similar            students the facility is designed to
educational institutions                accommodate at any one time during a
                                        24-hour period
                                        One parking space for each three
Child care centers, day nurseries and   children served plus one parking space
similar uses                            for each employee per largest working
                                        shift
                                        One parking space for each six beds
Children’s homes                      plus one space for each employee per
                                        largest working shift
Churches and similar places of worship  One parking space for each three seats
                                        in the main seating area
Clubs, and lodges (without bars,        One parking space per each 400 square
lounges or restaurants), community      feet of floor area or one parking space
centers, public administrative, utility per for each 800 square feet of floor
and public service offices, libraries,  area plus one parking space for each
museums and similar uses                employee per largest working shift,
                                        whichever is greater
                                        One parking space for each one and one-
Commercial and industrial uses not      fourth employees per largest working
catering to on premises retail          shift plus an adequate number of
customers                               parking spaces to accommodate visitors
                                        and business vehicles operating from
                                        the premises
Discount retail stores, strip           One parking space for each 300 square
developments with more than two retail  feet of floor area
stores and retail shopping malls
Drive-in eating establishments where    One parking space for each 200 square
the customers eats in their vehicle     feet plus one parking space per
                                        employee per largest working shift
Eating establishments, bars, lounges,   One parking space for each three
night clubs and similar uses, excluding customer seats plus one parking space
drive-in eating establishment where the for each employee per largest working
customers eats in their vehicle         shift
General business uses, offices, retail
and personal and professional service
uses, except eating establishment, bars One parking space for each 400 square
and lounges, discount retail stores and feet of floor area
strip developments with more than two
retail stores and retail shopping malls
                                        One parking space per lodging room plus
                                        one parking space per employee per
Hotels and motels                       largest working shift and any spaces
                                        required for any restaurant or lounge
                                        associated with any hotel or motel
                                        One parking space for each 400 square
                                        feet of floor area or one parking space
Nursing homes and hospitals             for each two patient beds, whichever is
                                        lesser, plus one parking space per
                                        employee per largest working shift
Open air businesses, including auto,    One parking space per employee per
truck, recreational vehicle, mobile     largest working shift plus an adequate
home or boat sales uses, kennels, plant number of parking spaces for customers,
nurseries and similar uses              but not less than five additional
                                        parking spaces
                                        Eight parking spaces per classroom,
Public or private schools               laboratory or other student instruction
                                        area
Rooming houses, dormitories,            One parking space for each two beds
fraternities or sororities
Single-family residential uses          Two spaces per dwelling unit, including
                                        garage, carport or driveway parking
                                        One parking space for each three seats
                                        unless said arena or gymnasium is
                                        operated in conjunction with a public
Sports arena, gymnasium or similar use  or private school where either the
                                        parking requirement for the school or
                                        for the arena or gymnasium, whichever
                                        is greater, shall apply
Theaters, auditoriums, assembly halls,  One parking space for each four seats
funeral homes and similar places of     in the main seating area
congregation
Two-family, townhouse or multi-family   One and one half spaces per dwelling
residential uses                        unit residential uses, including
                                        garage, carport or driveway parking
 
   (P)   If the unit of measurement for determining the minimum number of off-
street parking spaces is any fraction of a space, said fraction shall be
considered as requiring one additional parking space.
   (Q)   In sports arenas, gymnasiums, churches and other places of assembly or
worship in which patrons occupy benches, pews or similar seating facilities,
each 20 inches of such seating shall be counted as one seat for purposes of
determining off-street parking requirements.
   (R)   For uses not specified in this section, or in any instance when the
requirement for an adequate number of off-street parking spaces is unclear, the
number of off-street parking spaces shall be determined by the Zoning
Administrator on the basis of similar uses, the number of persons expected to
be employed or served on the premises and the capability of the use to
adequately serve the visiting public.
   (S)   The required number of off-street parking spaces for premises
involving more than one type of use shall be the combination of the required
parking spaces for such uses, except where the Zoning Administrator determines
that the parking spaces available for one use on the premises can be reasonably
expected to function adequately for any other use on the premises without
conflict.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.076 OFF-SITE PARKING FACILITIES.
   The Village Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to grant off-site parking
facilities as conditional uses for any nonresidential use in any zoning
district, in accordance with §§
153.115 through
153.119 and with the following conditions.
   (A)   A site development plan for such off-site parking facility shall be
filed with the Board of Trustees and said site plan shall demonstrate
compliance with all applicable requirements for off-street parking facilities,
including landscape buffer and screening, as set forth in this chapter, and a
listing of all individual off-site uses which shall be entitled to utilize such
off-site parking facility, including the number of spaces committed to each
such off-site use.
   (B)   Any such off-site parking facility shall be located in any
nonresidential zoning district and shall be situated within 300 feet of the lot
(s) on which the use or uses to be served by said off-site parking facility,
measured along the street or sidewalk connecting such parking facility to the
use or uses served by the parking facility.
   (C)   Any such off-site parking facility shall be surfaced with gravel or
crushed rock, asphalt or concrete capable of carrying a wheel load of 4,000
pounds and shall be maintained in good condition and be free of all weeds,
dirt, trash or debris.
   (D)   The individual parking spaces in any such off-site parking area shall
be delineated either by properly anchored wheel stops in the case of gravel or
crushed rock surfacing or by painting of stripes and installation of curb or
wheel stops in the case of asphalt or concrete surfacing.
   (E)   Any off-site parking facility shall have a landscape buffer on all
street frontages at least six feet in width, and any off-site parking facility
abutting a residential zoning district shall be required to have a landscape
screen on all side or rear yards that abut a residential zoning district.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.077 ON-STREET PARKING BLISTERS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of this chapter, the establishment of
parking blisters on public street rights-of-way within the village may be
authorized by the Village Board of Trustees, after review and recommendation by
the Planning Commission, to substitute for all or part of the off-street
parking requirement for two-family, townhouse and multi-family residential
uses, subject to the following limitations and requirements.
   (A)   Parking blisters shall be permitted only on streets classified on the
village’s major street plan as local streets.
   (B)   All parking blisters shall be located to maintain the minimum street
intersection site distance as required in §
153.069, and such site distance requirement shall also apply to any
intersection of a street and a public alley.
   (C)   The parking arrangement of any parking blister shall be parallel with
the street curb or edge of pavement or angled from such curb or edge of
pavement at an angle not exceeding 41 degrees from the curb or edge of
pavement. Where a street curb does not exist, such shall be installed as part
of the paving of such parking blister.
   (D)   All parking blisters shall provide for pedestrian movement in the form
of a sidewalk abutting the edge of the parking blister which is a minimum of
six feet in width and extending the length of the parking blister. Such
sidewalk shall connect with any other sidewalks serving the premises or
adjoining lots.
   (E)   Any parking blister shall not exceed the length of the frontage of the
lot of which the use it serves is located, and no part of any vehicle parked in
such parking blister shall extend beyond the frontage of the lot which the
parking blister serves.
   (F)   Any parking blister shall be paved with concrete or asphalt in
accordance with village street paving standards and shall provide for proper
drainage and be equipped with a curb on the frontage of the lot. Minimum
parking space dimensions, as set forth in this chapter, shall be required in
any parking blister.
   (G)   Maintenance and snow removal from a parking blister shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the lot which such parking blister serves.
   (H)   Any part of the total off-street parking requirement not satisfied by
a parking blister shall be provided on the lot on which the use served by the
parking blister is located.
   (I)   If parking for persons with a disability is not provided elsewhere on
the lot on which the use served by the parking blister is located, such parking
space(s) shall be provided in the parking blister in accordance with the
requirements of §
153.075(K).
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.078 DOWNTOWN PARKING.
   Due to the pedestrian-oriented nature of the some areas included in the C-1,
General Business Zoning District, and the availability of on-street parking in
the Central Business District, the off-street parking requirements contained in
§
153.075 shall not be applicable to any commercial use existing in the C-1,
Central Business District at the date of adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.079 LOADING AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except for uses located in the C-1, Central Business District, every
lot used for commercial purposes where a stock of goods is maintained or
industrial purposes shall be provided with an off-street loading area that will
accommodate semi-tractors and trailers. Such loading area shall have access to
a public street or alley and shall not interfere with the use of required off-
street parking spaces or interfere with any sidewalk on the premises to
maneuver or park any vehicles for loading or unloading. Such loading areas
shall be surfaced with gravel or crushed rock or paved with asphalt or
concrete.
   (B)   Commercial uses located in the C-1, Central Business District and
existing at the date of adoption of this chapter shall not be required to meet
the loading area requirements of this section.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.080 SIGNS.
   (A)   Generally. Any sign shall, by definition, be a structure. No land,
building or structure shall be used for sign purposes except in conformance
with these regulations and those of the applicable zoning district. Signs shall
only be permitted in zoning districts permitting the same, and no sign shall be
erected, enlarged or otherwise modified until a zoning permit for same has been
issued, except as specified in this section.
   (B)   Existing signs. All signs legally existing at the date of adoption of
this chapter or applicable amendment thereto may remain in use under the
conditions of legal nonconformance. Signs in legal nonconformance shall not be
enlarged, moved, lighted or reconstructed without compliance with this chapter,
provided, however, that normal maintenance of such signs and the changing of
the advertising display in the case of billboards shall not be restricted.
Conversion of any nonconforming business sign to another business sign or
product name may be done, provided such nonconforming sign is not an obsolete
sign, as defined herein. If such nonconforming sign is determined to be an
obsolete sign, it shall not be converted to any other sign unless such
conversion would bring such sign in conformance with these regulations.
   (C)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SIGN. Any outdoor visual identification, description, display or
illustration which is affixed to, painted on or attached to a building, post,
pole or other structure and which directs attention to an object, product,
place, activity, business, person or persons, service or interest, provides
direction or otherwise provides a means of visually communicating with the
general public.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following signs shall be exempt from these
regulations, subject to the conditions specified below:
      (1)   Signs not exceeding two square feet in area and bearing only
property numbers, address numbers, names of occupants or premises or other
identification of the premises not denoting any business activity;
      (2)   Flags, signs and insignia of any governmental unit, civic,
educational or religious organization, except where displayed in connection
with a business promotion;
      (3)   Legal notices, identification, informational, warning, no
trespassing, directional or other similar signs erected or required to be
erected by any governmental unit and informational or directional signs allowed
by the Village Board of Trustees to be placed in any public right-of-way;
      (4)   Memorial plaques, historical markers, integral decorative or
architectural features of a building, except trademarks, moving parts or moving
lights;
      (5)   One real estate sign for each lot frontage indicating “for sale,”
“for rent or lease,” provided any such sign shall be set back at least five
feet from any street right-of-way line;
      (6)   Political campaign yard signs, provided such signs are not placed
in any public right-of-way; and
      (7)   Window signs, including pictures, symbols, writing or combination
thereof designed to promote an on-site activity that is placed inside a window
and is visible from the exterior.
   (E)   Incidental signs. The following incidental signs shall be permitted,
subject to the listed requirements and limitations:
      (1)   Signs, on private property, directing and guiding traffic,
identifying a parking or loading area, designating building entrances. Such
signs shall not exceed ten square feet in area for each sign and shall not
exceed a height of three and one-half feet. A free-standing incidental sign
shall be set back a minimum of five feet from any street or alley right-of-way
line;
      (2)   Temporary signs in connection with a special event, provided such
signs are limited in use to 30 days per premises and are set back a minimum of
five feet from any street or alley right-of-way line;
      (3)   Temporary signs in connection with buildings under construction,
model homes and similar longer term temporary signs which shall be removed when
the work or sale is completed. Such signs shall be set back a minimum of five
feet from any street or alley right-of-way line;
      (4)   A temporary or permanent subdivision identification sign for each
street entrance into a subdivision. Such sign shall not exceed 250 square feet
or 42 inches in height and shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from any
right-of-way line unless a greater setback is required to maintain street
intersection visibility in accordance with §
153.069; and
      (5)   Off-site signs identifying a church, school, hospital, public park,
historic site, local service and benevolent organizations and other public
facilities, subject to the following limitations:
         (a)   Such signs shall be placed on private property and shall not be
placed on any public property or public right-of-way unless so authorized by
the Village Board of Trustees;
         (b)   Such signs may only be placed in a commercial or industrial
zoning district;
         (c)   Such signs shall be located no closer than five feet to a right-
of-way line of any street;
         (d)   Such signs shall not have a sign face area exceeding 16 square
feet and such signs shall not exceed ten feet in height;
         (e)   Not more than one such sign may be placed on the same sign
structure;
         (f)   Such signs shall be located no closer than 200 feet to any other
sign, excluding those signs listed as exempted signs in division (D) above; and
         (g)   Such signs may be lighted.
   (F)   Maintenance and removal.
      (1)   All signs shall be kept in good repair.
      (2)   Signs and sign structures which are obsolete, no longer functional
or are abandoned shall be removed within 60 days after written notification
from the Zoning Administrator that such sign is deemed to be obsolete, non-
functional, abandoned or the sign face and/or structure is dilapidated.
   (G)   Prohibited.
      (1)   No sign or sign structure shall be placed on private property or
public property without the consent of the owner of such property.
      (2)   No sign or sign structure, other than official street or highway
signs, shall be placed upon, over or in any street or highway right-of-way,
except in the Central Business District or as otherwise authorized by the
Village Board of Trustees.
      (3)   No sign or sign structure shall be erected at any location where it
will interfere with, obstruct the view of pedestrians or oncoming vehicular or
railroad traffic, or be confused with any authorized traffic control sign,
signal or device. No rotating beam, beacon or flashing illumination resembling
any emergency vehicle lights shall be used in connection with any sign.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to erect and maintain any trailer, vehicle,
semi-truck trailer or other movable vehicle for use as a sign.
      (5)   Signs associated with a home occupation or home based business
shall be in accordance with §
153.074(H).
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.081 TOWERS.
   The Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the Telecommunications Act of
1996, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 153 et seq., prohibits local governments from
prohibiting or tending to prohibit any person from providing wireless
telecommunications service. In compliance with this Act, erected
telecommunications towers and other erected towers in excess of 35 feet in
height shall be approved as conditional uses in the zoning districts in which
said towers are allowable, provided such towers comply with or exceed the
following minimum requirements.
   (A)   The applicant proposing to construct any such tower shall submit an
affidavit attesting to the fact that the applicant has made diligent, but
unsuccessful efforts to obtain permission to share or collocate the applicant’s
telecommunications facilities on a tower or usable antenna support or written
technical evidence from an engineer that the applicant’s telecommunications
facilities cannot be installed or collocated on an existing tower or usable
antenna support structure.
   (B)   Any tower shall be set back from the right-of-way line of any public
roadway or from the nearest wall of any neighboring church, school or
residential dwelling by a distance equal to or exceeding the height of the
tower.
   (C)   The base of any tower shall be enclosed within a security fence or
wall to preclude unauthorized access to the tower.
   (D)   When located within 150 feet of any residential zoning district, a
landscape screen shall be installed along the boundaries of the tower site
abutting any residential zoning district.
   (E)   A condition of conditional use authorization of any tower shall be
that the applicant shall agree to allow sharing or collocation by other
telecommunications entities whenever possible.
   (F)   Any tower shall not be artificially lighted except as required by the
Federal Aviation Administration. In cases where lighting is required and there
are residentially zoned properties within 300% of the height of a tower, any
such tower shall be equipped with dual mode lighting.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.082 TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   Temporary uses customary and commonly associated with the primary uses
allowed within each zoning district shall be conditionally permitted, and such
uses shall be subject to the regulations of the applicable zoning district and
the following time period restrictions.
Temporary Use Time Limit
Temporary Use                                                      Time Limit
Announcement signs in association with buildings under
construction, demolition or remodeling announcing the future use,  1 year
developer, architect, engineer and contractor
Carnivals, rummage, garage or yards sales, auctions and similar    14 days/year
uses
Commercial construction/paving material batch plants necessary to
construction on or near the batch plant premises, provided such    6 months
plants shall not be located in any residential zoning district
Mobile home or truck trailer parking as a temporary construction
office during construction of a building or structure on or near   1 year
the office premises
Other temporary uses customary to and commonly associated with the 60 days
primary uses permitted in each zoning district
Parking lot or areas designated for a special event                30 days
Sites for the sale of fireworks, Christmas trees and similar       60 days
seasonal items and signs associated with such uses
Special events, such as meetings, exhibitions, sales, political    60 days
campaign headquarters and similar special events
Subdivision or building development signs necessary to advertise
the sale, rental or lease of real property within the subdivision  1 year
or development
Temporary building or yard for storage of construction materials
and equipment necessary to the construction of a building or       1 year
structure on or near the storage premises
Temporary office, model home or apartment and incidental signs     1 year
necessary for the sale, rental or lease of real property
Temporary or moveable fence                                        30 days
Temporary signs announcing a special event                         60 days
Temporary storage inside of storage container due to natural       1 year
disaster or act of mother nature
Temporary structures for farmer’s markets, bazaars and similar   6 months
activities
 
   (B)   Temporary uses shall also comply with the following performance
standards.
      (1)   Except for the temporary use of a portable public address system in
association with an auction, no public address system or noise producing device
shall be permitted in any residential zoning district.
      (2)   Floodlighting or other lighting used in association with a
temporary uses shall be restricted to lighting of the premises of the temporary
use and shall not be directed or allowed to shine directly on to adjoining
properties.
      (3)   Temporary uses shall not block public street and alley intersection
visibility and shall comply with §
153.069.
      (4)   Temporary uses shall not be permitted to use or occur on any public
property, except as approved by the Village Board of Trustees and except for
on-street parking associated with a temporary use where such parking is
permitted.
      (5)   Temporary uses shall comply with the requirements of the zoning
district in which the use occurs, and signs associated with a temporary uses
shall comply with the applicable regulations of §
153.080.
      (6)   Temporary storage inside of storage container due to natural
disaster or act of mother nature is temporary and limited to principal use
dwelling and/or accessory use structure content. This may also include storage
of construction materials needed for construction or reconstructing of
principal use structure or accessory use structure. The village shall approve
location placement of storage container unit and shall require a permit. In the
case of a natural disaster/act of mother nature, the permit fees will be waived
for only this occurrence.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.083 OCCUPANCY OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES/VEHICLES.
   (A)   No basement or cellar shall be occupied for residential purposes until
the remainder of the building has been constructed and can be occupied for
dwelling purposes.
   (B)   The following shall not be allowed for residential use, in all zoning
districts:
      (1)   Basements or garages;
      (2)   Cellar;
      (3)   Storage units, storage shed, storage containers;
      (4)   Cars/vehicles;
      (5)   Recreational vehicles, RVs, campers;
      (6)   Tents; and
      (7)   Abandoned or uninhabitable buildings.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.084 OTHER GENERAL BUSINESS STANDARDS.
   Any business or industrial use shall comply with the following general
business standards.
   (A)   No music or audio advertising shall be permitted on the exterior of
any business premises, except that music may be permitted on the exterior of
business enterprises during holiday seasons or special events, provided that
the number of special events shall not exceed two per year and that the level
of amplification of such music or advertising shall not create an annoyance or
nuisance to nearby businesses or other uses.
   (B)   Each business shall provide adequate refuse containers for waste
produced on the premises. Any waste container located on the exterior of a
building which is larger than six cubic yards in capacity shall be enclosed in
an opaque fence or walled area, and said fence or wall shall be sufficient
height to hide said refuse container, but shall not exceed six feet in height.
   (C)   No strobe or lighting utilizing rotating beacons or an attracting
device of the type used by emergency vehicles as emergency or warning lights
shall be permitted on the exterior of any building.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
**** NONCONFORMING USES ****
§ 153.095 INTENT.
   (A)   Within the zoning districts established by this chapter or amendment
thereto, there may exist lots, structures or use of land and structures, or
characteristics of structures or uses which were legally established on the
date of adoption of this chapter, but which are prohibited, regulated or
restricted under the terms of this chapter or amendment thereto. It is the
intent of this subchapter to permit these nonconformities to continue until
such are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent
of this subchapter that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or
extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited
elsewhere in the same zoning district.
   (B)   Nonconforming uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible
with permitted uses in the applicable zoning district. A nonconforming use of a
structure, of land or of a structure and land in combination shall not be
extended or enlarged after adoption of this chapter by attachment on a building
or premises of additional signs intended to seen from off the premises or by
the addition of other uses which are prohibited in the applicable zoning
district.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.096 HARDSHIP.
   To avoid any undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
or structure for which a zoning permit has been lawfully issued or for which
actual construction has been lawfully initiated in good faith prior to the
effective date of this chapter or amendment thereto where actual construction
activity has been carried on diligently. For the purpose of this section,
ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is defined to be the placing of substantial construction
materials, other than earth, in a permanent position and fastened in a
permanent manner; and CARRIED ON DILIGENTLY shall be defined to mean that
construction has been ongoing except through the winter months, defined as
being November 1 through April 1 of the following year.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.097 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, a lawfully
established residential use rendered nonconforming by adoption of this chapter
or amendment thereto may be enlarged, altered or reconstructed, provided that
such residential use shall comply with §
153.096
   (B)   This provision shall not be construed to include more than one use on
a lot and shall be applicable so long as such use remains otherwise lawful.
   (C)   Any such enlargement or alteration shall not increase the
nonconformity of the dwelling.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.098 NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   In any zoning district in which single-family dwelling structures are
permitted, a single-family dwelling and its customary accessory buildings may
be erected on a single lot which is a lot of record on the date of adoption of
this chapter or amendment thereto. Such lot of record must be in separate
ownership and not of continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership.
The provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements
for area, width or both of the applicable zoning district, provided that yard
dimensions shall conform to the applicable zoning district regulations.
   (B)   If two or more lots or combinations of lots or portions of lots with
continuous frontage and in the same ownership are of record on the date of
adoption of this chapter or applicable amendment thereto, and if all or part of
the lots do not comply with the lot width and area requirements of the
applicable zoning district, the lots or portions or lots involved shall be
considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this chapter, and no
portion of such lot or portions of lots shall be used or sold in a manner which
would diminish compliance with the minimum lot width and area requirements of
the applicable zoning district.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.099 NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND WITH MINOR STRUCTURES.
   Where, at the date of adoption of this chapter or applicable amendment
thereto, lawful use of land exists which would not be permitted under the
regulations of the applicable zoning district and where such use involves no
individual structure with a replacement cost exceeding $1,000, the use may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, provided:
   (A)   With the exception of livestock production uses, if any such
nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a period of more than 12
consecutive months, any subsequent use of such land shall conform in all
respects to the requirements of the applicable zoning district. If any
livestock production use ceases for any reason for a period of more than 36
consecutive months, such production use shall be deemed to be abandoned and
shall not be re-established;
   (B)   No additional structure shall be erected in connection with any such
nonconforming use;
   (C)   No such nonconforming use shall be moved, in whole or in part, to
occupy any portion of the lot or parcel on which such use was located on the
date of adoption of this chapter or applicable amendment thereto; and
   (D)   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged, increased in any way or
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied by such use as of
the date of adoption of this chapter or applicable amendment thereto.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.100 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists on the date of adoption of this chapter or
applicable amendment thereto which could not be constructed under the
requirements of this chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage,
height, yards, location or the lot or other requirement concerning such
structure, such structure may be continued as long as it remains otherwise
lawful, provided:
   (A)   No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in any way
which would increase its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof
may be altered to reduce its nonconformity;
   (B)   Should such structure or nonconforming portion of such structure be
destroyed by any means to an extent of more than 75% of its replacement cost at
the time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed, except in conformity
with this chapter or applicable amendment thereto; and
   (C)   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance, it
shall conform to the requirements of this chapter or applicable amendment
thereto at its new location.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.101 NONCONFORMING USE OF STRUCTURES OR OF STRUCTURES AND LAND IN
COMBINATION.
   If a lawful use involving individual structures with a replacement cost of
more than $1,000 or structure of such value and land in combination exists on
the effective date of adoption of this chapter or applicable amendment thereto,
that would not be permitted in the applicable zoning district, the use may be
continued as long as it remains otherwise lawful, provided:
   (A)   No such existing structure devoted to a use not permitted in the
applicable zoning district shall be enlarged, extended, reconstructed, moved or
structurally altered, except in conjunction with changing the use of the
structure to a use permitted in the applicable zoning district;
   (B)   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of an
existing building or area which was manifestly arranged or designed for such
use at the date of adoption of this chapter or applicable amendment thereto,
but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building or
area;
   (C)   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure or structure and premises may, as a conditional use, be changed to
another nonconforming use, provided that the Village Board of Trustees, after
review and recommendation by the Planning Commission, either by general rule or
findings in the specific case, shall find that the proposed use is equally
appropriate or more appropriate to the applicable zoning district than the
existing nonconforming use. In permitting such change, the Village Board of
Trustees may require compliance with conditions and safeguards which it deems
appropriate;
   (D)   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall thereafter conform to
the requirements of this chapter, and a nonconforming use may not thereafter be
resumed or established;
   (E)   Except for livestock production uses, when a nonconforming use or
structure, or structure and premises in combination, is discontinued or is
abandoned by 12 consecutive months, except when governmental action impedes
access to the premises, the structure or structure and land in combination
shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with the requirements of this
chapter. If any livestock production use ceases for any reason for a period of
more than 36 consecutive months, such production use shall be deemed to be
abandoned and shall not be re-established; and
   (F)   Where a nonconforming use status applies to a structure, or structure
and land in combination, removal or destruction of the structure by any means
to an extent of more than 75% of its replacement cost at the time of such
destruction shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the land, and such
structure and use shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.102 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Ordinary repairs and maintenance of or replacement of non-bearing
walls, fixtures, heating and cooling systems, wiring, plumbing, roofing
material or similar non-structural building components is permitted, provided
that such repairs, maintenance or replacement does not increase the area or
cubic content of the structure which existed on the date of adoption of this
chapter or applicable amendment thereto.
   (B)   If a nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to a lack of
repairs or maintenance and is declared by any authorized official to be unsafe
or unlawful by reason of such physical condition, such structure shall not be
restored, repaired or reconstructed after six months from the date of such
declaration.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.103 CONDITIONAL USES AND NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A use granted as a conditional use under the terms and requirements of
this chapter shall not be deemed a nonconforming use.
   (B)   A nonconforming use may be converted to another nonconforming use as a
conditional use in accordance with §
153.099(C). A conditional use allowing a change from one nonconforming use to
another nonconforming use shall remain a nonconforming use.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
**** CONDITIONAL USE PERMITTED BY SPECIAL REVIEW ****
§ 153.115 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees may grant conditional uses to property
owners for the use of their property as authorized by this chapter. The
granting of a conditional use shall permit only the use requested that is among
those uses listed in the applicable zoning district regulations as conditional
uses. The Board of Trustees may attach any conditions or additional
requirements in authorizing a conditional use and such conditions or additional
requirements shall be complied with in the same manner as any other requirement
of this chapter. The conditional use authorization shall take effect upon
authorization of the conditional use and issuance of a zoning permit by the
Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The power to grant conditional uses shall be the exclusive authority
of the Village Board of Trustees, provided that the Village Board of Trustees
shall not consider any conditional use application until such application has
been reviewed and recommendations provided to the Village Board of Trustees by
the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission and Village Board of Trustees,
when considering any application for a conditional use, shall comply with the
following standards and procedures.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.116 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A written application for a conditional use permit shall be submitted
to the Zoning Administrator on the form provided by the Zoning Administrator. A
conditional use application shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator at
least 15 days prior to the date of any review of such application by the
Planning Commission, together with the established fee for review of such
conditional use application.
   (B)   Such application shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   A legal description of the property on which the proposed
conditional use is requested, including the specific size and dimension of the
area on which the proposed conditional use would be located if less than the
total property owned by the applicant;
      (2)   The size and locations of all existing and proposed buildings and
structures;
      (3)   A detailed description of the use proposed and the activities
involved in such use;
      (4)   The location(s) of access to public roadway(s);
      (5)   The type and locations of easements affecting the property;
      (6)   A description of the provisions made for adequate water supply,
sewage disposal, public utilities and erosion control;
      (7)   The extent and location of parking, loading, outdoor storage areas
and refuse disposal and collection facilities;
      (8)   A description and location of any screen fencing or landscape
screening proposed;
      (9)   A description of the size, height and location of any proposed
signs;
      (10)   An indication of the land uses on all properties adjoining the
property on which the conditional use is proposed;
      (11)   An indication of surface water drainage onto, through and off of
the subject property which would occur after development of the proposed
conditional use;
      (12)   A description of how the use or uses proposed will address the
compatibility issues of traffic generation, noise, odor, dust, potential air,
water or soil pollution or explosion hazards or other compatibility issue which
may result from the proposed use; and
      (13)   Any areas on the property subject to flooding or considered to be
a wetland.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.117 PROCEDURES AND PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Planning Commission public hearing. For any action on a conditional
use application, the Village Clerk shall have published a written notice in the
legal newspaper of the village at least ten days prior to the date of the
Planning Commission meeting at which the conditional use request is scheduled
to be heard. Such notice shall state the date, time and place of such public
hearing and contain a statement describing the legal description, street
address and type of conditional use requested, the name of the person(s) or
entity making application for a conditional use and a statement indicating that
all interested citizens can attend this public hearing and be heard with regard
to this application.
   (B)   Planning Commission review and recommendation.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall hear and review each conditional use
application within 30 days of the date that a complete application for a
conditional use is submitted to the Zoning Administrator. The Planning
Commission shall hear the applicant’s petition and all comments by the public
and shall review such application with regard to the factors, issues,
requirements and limitations set forth in §
153.118.
      (2)   The Planning Commission, after review of the application, shall, by
majority vote, act to recommend approval or disapproval of the application,
provided that if the Commission recommends approval of such application it
shall specify conditions and limitations which it recommends to assure that the
proposed use will not unreasonably impact neighboring properties and the
neighborhood and community in general. The Commission, in its review of a
conditional use application, shall consider the issues and factors set forth in
§
153.118. If the Commission disapproves an application, it shall state the
reason(s) for such disapproval. The recommendations of the Planning Commission,
together with recommended conditions of approval or recommended reasons for
disapproval shall be recorded in the minutes of the Commission, and such
recommendations shall be forwarded by the Zoning Administrator to the Village
Board of Trustees for its consideration.
      (3)   If the Planning Commission determines that additional information
is needed with regard to the conditional use application, it may continue the
public hearing until the next meeting of the Planning Commission to provide
time for the applicant to provide such additional information. The Chairperson
of the Commission shall indicate to the applicant what additional information
is needed and shall state the date, time and location of the next meeting of
the Planning Commission at which the conditional use will again be considered.
   (C)   Village Board of Trustees public hearing. For any action on a
conditional use application, the Village Clerk shall have published a written
notice in the legal newspaper of the village at least ten days prior to the
date of the Village Board of Trustees meeting at which the conditional use
request is scheduled to be heard. Such notice shall state the date, time and
place of such public hearing and contain a statement describing the legal
description, street address and type of conditional use requested, the name of
the person(s) or entity making application for a conditional use and a
statement indicating that all interested citizens can attend this public
hearing and be heard with regard to this application.
   (D)   Village Board of Trustees review and action.
      (1)   The Village Board of Trustees shall hear, review and decide each
conditional use application at its next regular meeting after hearing and
recommendation on each conditional use application by the Planning Commission.
The Village Board of Trustees, at public hearing, shall:
         (a)   Consider and review the application;
         (b)   Consider the comments of all interested citizens;
         (c)   Review and consider the recommendations of the Planning
Commission; and
         (d)   Consider the issues and factors set forth in §
153.118.
      (2)   After such public hearing, review and consideration, the Village
Board of Trustees shall, by majority vote, either:
         (a)   Approve the application as proposed;
         (b)   Deny the application;
         (c)   Approve such application with conditions; or
         (4)   Table the application to a specified date, time and place to
provide for further study and review.
      (3)   Any Village Board of Trustees action to authorize a conditional use
shall be recorded in the minutes of the Board of Trustees together with all
conditions applicable to such authorization, and the Zoning Administrator shall
be instructed to attach such conditions to a zoning permit to be forwarded to
the applicant. Any Village Board of Trustees action to deny an application
shall be recorded in the minutes of the Village Board of Trustees, together
with the reason(s) for such denial, and the Village Board of Trustees shall
cause a letter stating the reasons for the denial to be sent to the applicant.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.118 RULES GOVERNING CONSIDERATION AND AUTHORIZATION OF CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission and Village Board of Trustees, in considering
an application for a conditional use, shall, prior to any action on a
conditional use application, consider the definition of conditional use, as
defined in §
153.004, and which reads as follows.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A use of land that would not be appropriate generally or
without restriction throughout a zoning district, but which, if controlled as
to number, size, height, intensity, location or relationship to the surrounding
property would promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience and
general welfare.
   (B)   The Planning Commission and Village Board of Trustees shall also,
prior to any action on a conditional use application, consider the following
factors with regard to evaluation of the appropriateness of a proposed
conditional use:
      (1)   The location of all ingress and egress points to the property on
which the conditional use is proposed to be located with particular reference
to pedestrian and vehicle safety and convenience, traffic flow and control and
access by emergency vehicles;
      (2)   The impact of off-street parking and loading areas and related
traffic, noise, glare and other impact on adjoining properties and the
neighborhood in general;
      (3)   The location and adequacy of refuse collection and utility
locations and easements;
      (4)   The adequacy of surface drainage provisions proposed and the impact
of surface drainage on neighboring properties and existing drainage facilities;
      (5)   The adequacy of landscape screening or buffering proposed or the
need for such screening or buffering to protect abutting properties;
      (6)   The appropriateness of the location, size and height of signs and
exterior lighting with regard to impact on abutting properties and the
neighborhood in general;
      (7)   The compliance with yard and open space requirements of the
applicable zoning district;
      (8)   The overall compatibility of the proposed conditional use with
abutting properties and the neighborhood in general, the possible impacts on
property values in the area of the proposed conditional use and the consistency
of the proposed use with the village’s comprehensive plan;
      (9)   The possible long-term impacts on and the long-term compatibility
of the proposed conditional use with abutting properties and the neighborhood
and community in general; and
      (10)   Other factors, peculiar to the conditional use requested which
could negatively impact abutting properties, the neighborhood or the community
in general.
   (C)   The Planning Commission may recommend and the Village Board of
Trustees, in authorizing any conditional use, may stipulate and require
compliance with such conditions and restrictions as it deems appropriate to
assure that any conditional use authorized will not unreasonably impact the
value of neighboring properties, traffic levels on adjoining streets,
capacities of public utilities, surface drainage and the general public health
and safety of the community.
   (D)   In the event a proposed conditional use is to be temporary in nature,
the Planning Commission may recommend and the Village Board of Trustees may
stipulate a time limit for the operation of such use. If a proposed conditional
use is to be a permanent use, evaluation of the appropriateness of the proposed
use shall include an evaluation of the long-term impacts on and long-term
compatibility with abutting properties, the neighborhood and the community in
general. If such a permanent use is authorized, such authorization shall be
without a time limit.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.119 EXPIRATION OF CONDITIONAL USES.
   Construction or development of any authorized conditional use shall be
commenced within 12 months after issuance of a zoning permit by the Zoning
Administrator after authorization of such conditional use by the Village Board
of Trustees. If such construction or development does not occur within this
time, the conditional use authorization and permit become null and void. The
applicant may, however, file a written request for an extension of the
conditional use authorization and permit stating the length of the extension
requested and the reason(s) such extension is needed. After proper legal notice
in accordance with §
153.117, the Village Board of Trustees shall review the extension request and
decide if such conditional use remains appropriate. The Village Board of
Trustees may grant an extension of up to 12 additional months, or it may deny
the extension request, and, in either case, the action of the Village Board of
Trustees shall be recorded in the minutes of the Board of Trustees, together
with the reason(s) for such action. The Village Board of Trustees shall cause a
letter stating the Board’s action and reason(s) for such action to be provided
to the applicant.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
**** BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT ****
§ 153.130 CREATION, TERMS OF OFFICE, MEETINGS, RULES.
   (A)   A Board of Adjustment is hereby created and shall be known as the
Village Board of Adjustment. The Village Board of Trustees shall act as the
Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Each member of the Village Board of Trustees shall be a voting member
of the Board of Adjustment. Loss of membership on the Village Board of Trustees
shall result in the immediate loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   The Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the Village Board of Trustees
shall be the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the Board of Adjustment. The
Village Clerk shall serve as the Secretary of the Board of Adjustment.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of
the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. The
Chairperson or the Vice Chairperson may administer oaths and compel attendance
of witnesses.
   (E)   The quorum for the Board of Adjustment shall be a minimum of three
members. Passage of any motion by the Board on any question, except those
matters requiring a public hearing, shall require a concurring vote of a
minimum of three members. Passage of any motion on a matter which requires a
public hearing shall require a concurring vote of a minimum of four members.
   (F)   All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be open to the public.
The Board shall cause accurate minutes of its proceedings to be prepared and
such minutes shall include members in attendance, evidence presented, findings
of fact by the Board, all motions and decisions of the Board, together with any
conditions attached to such decisions, and the vote of each member. Records of
all official actions of the Board shall be maintained in the office of the
Village Clerk and shall be open to public inspection.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.131 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the powers and duties herein described
and shall have only such powers and duties.
   (A)   Powers and jurisdiction relating to administrative review. The Board
of Adjustment shall have the power and responsibility to hear and decide
appeals from any affected person where it is alleged there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning Administrator,
based on or made in the enforcement of this chapter or any regulation relating
to the location or soundness of structures, or to interpret any map.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and determine appeals from any
requirement, interpretation or decision of the Zoning Administrator. Upon
filing of an appeal, the Board shall fix a time and place for hearing of the
appeal. Public notice of the time, place and subject of such hearing shall be
published in the legal newspaper of the village at least ten calendar days
prior to the date fixed for such hearing. A copy of such notice shall be mailed
to the person or persons who filed the appeal.
      (2)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved, or by any officer, department, board or bureau affected by any
decision of the Zoning Administrator regarding the interpretation and
enforcement of this chapter. Such appeal shall be filed within a reasonable
period of time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing a notice of
appeal with the Zoning Administrator and the Board specifying the grounds for
such appeal and such notice shall be accompanied by payment of any fee
established for filing of such appeal. The Zoning Administrator shall provide
all papers constituting the applicable records of the Administrator to the
Board on or before the date of the hearing set for hearing the appeal.
      (3)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board, after a notice
of appeal has been filed, that by reason of facts in such case, that a stay
would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall
not be stayed except by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board
or court.
   (B)   Powers and jurisdiction relating to map interpretation. The Board of
Adjustment shall have the power and responsibility to hear and decide questions
regarding the interpretation of the official zoning map in the same manner as
the hearing of an appeal and in accordance with the limitations set forth in §
153.040.
   (C)   Powers and jurisdiction relating to variances. The Board of Adjustment
shall have the power to authorize, in specific cases, a variance from the
specific terms of this chapter which will not be contrary to the public
interest and where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter would, in an individual case, result in unnecessary
hardship, and provided that the spirit of this chapter shall be observed,
public safety and welfare secured and substantial justice done. A variance may
be granted in such case upon findings of the Board that all of the following
conditions have been met.
      (1)   Where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of
a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of this chapter, or
by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other extraordinary and
exceptional situation or condition of each specific piece of property, the
strict application of any applicable provision of this chapter would result in
peculiar or exceptional practical difficulties to, or exceptional and undue
hardship upon, the owner of such property, the Board of Adjustment shall have
the power to authorize a variance from the strict application of such
applicable provision so as to relieve such difficulties or hardship if such
relief may be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and
without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this chapter. No such
variance shall be authorized by the Board unless and until it finds that:
         (a)   The strict application of the applicable provisions of this
chapter would produce undue difficulty or hardship;
         (b)   Such difficulty or hardship is not generally shared by other
properties in the same zoning district and the same vicinity;
         (c)   The authorization of a variance shall not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the zoning district will
not be changed by the authorization of a variance;
         (d)   The authorization of a variance is based upon reasons of
demonstrable and exceptional difficulty or hardship, as distinguished from a
variance for purposes of the property owner’s convenience, profit or caprice;
and
         (e)   The condition or situation of the property concerned or the
intended use of the property is not of so general or recurring nature as to
make reasonably practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be
adopted as an amendment to this chapter.
      (2)   A variance from the terms of this chapter shall not be granted by
the Board of Adjustment unless and until a written application for a variance
is submitted to the Zoning Administrator. Such application shall be in the form
prescribed by the Board, and the applicant shall identify the special
conditions and circumstances which are peculiar to the land, the structure(s)
or building involved which, in the opinion of the applicant, are not applicable
to other lands, structures or buildings in the same zoning district. The
applicant shall also:
         (a)   State the reason(s) that a literal enforcement of the applicable
provision(s) of this chapter would deprive the applicant of rights commonly
enjoyed by other properties in the same zoning district under the terms of this
chapter;
         (b)   Indicate why the conditions or circumstances related to such
variance do not result from the action of the applicant; and
         (c)   The reason(s) that granting of the requested variance will not
confer any special privilege on the applicant that is denied by the provisions
of this chapter to other land, structures or buildings in the same zoning
district.
      (3)   A nonconforming use of neighboring land, structure(s) or building
(s) in the same zoning district and permitted or nonconforming uses of land,
structure(s) or building(s) in other zoning districts shall not be considered
grounds for difficulty or hardship and thus the authorization of a variance.
      (4)   Upon filing of a variance application with the Zoning
Administrator, notice of public hearing shall be published in the same manner
as set forth in division (B) above and the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall
conduct a public hearing. Any party may appear in person or be represented by
agent or attorney. Upon closing of such public hearing, the Board shall take
any of the following actions:
         (a)   Continue the application for a specified period of time to allow
the Board to gather more information in regard to the variance application. In
acting to continue such application the Board shall set a specific date, time
and place where it shall take further action of continued application;
         (b)   Deny the application for a variance and state the reason(s) for
such denial; and
         (c)   Authorize a variance, provided that the Board shall make written
findings that particular reasons set forth in the application justify the
authorization of a variance and that the variance is the minimum variance that
will make possible the reasonable use of the land, structure(s) or building(s)
and shall make written findings that the authorization of said variance will be
in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this chapter and will not be
injurious to abutting property, the property in the vicinity of the subject
property or be otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
      (5)   In authorizing any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
any conditions and safeguards it believes are appropriate to protect abutting
property, property in the vicinity and the public in general. Violation of such
conditions and safeguards by the applicant shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter and punishable under §
153.999.
      (6)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Zoning Adjustment
authorize a variance to allow a use not permitted under the regulations of any
zoning district or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
regulations of any zoning district.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.132 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT HAS POWERS OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR UPON APPEAL.
   In exercising the above mentioned powers, the Board of Adjustment may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partially, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision or interpretation as ought to be made and to this end shall have all
powers of the Zoning Administrator, provided that a concurring vote of four-
fifths of the members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, decision or interpretation of the Zoning Administrator or to
decide in favor of any applicant upon which it is required to act under this
chapter or to authorize any variance to this chapter.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.133 APPEALS FROM THE DECISIONS OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision of
the Board of Zoning Adjustment, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department,
board or bureau of the village may present to the district court a petition,
duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in
part, and specifying the grounds of such illegality as provided for in law.
Such petition must be presented to the court within 15 days after the filing of
the decision of the Board of Zoning Adjustment in the office of the Village
Clerk.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 153.145 ORGANIZATION.
   The administration and enforcement of this chapter is hereby vested in the
Planning Commission, the Board of Zoning Adjustment, the Zoning Administrator
and such other officials designated by the Village Board of Trustees as may be
necessary to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.146 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Planning Commission.
      (1)   Hear and provide recommendations to the Village Board of Trustees
regarding amendments to this chapter or the official zoning map;
      (2)   Review and administer all matters upon which it is required to act;
      (3)   Establish uniform bylaws and rules of procedure pertaining to
review of applications, conduct of public hearings and issuance of permits;
      (4)   Periodically review the effectiveness of the comprehensive plan and
requirements of this chapter and initiate and recommend amendments thereto;
      (5)   Invoke any authorized legal, equitable or special remedy for the
proper and effective enforcement of this chapter;
      (6)   Hear and provide recommendations to the Village Board of Trustees
with regard to conditional use applications in accordance with the requirements
and limitations of this chapter; and
      (7)   Conduct or review special studies and prepare recommendations as
may be required by law or requested by the Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Board of Zoning Adjustment.
      (1)   Hear and decide appeals from and review and order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the Zoning Administrator;
      (2)   Hear and authorize specific variances from the terms of this
chapter which will not be contrary to the public interest, where, owing to
special conditions fully demonstrated, a literal enforcement of the provisions
of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship;
      (3)   Hear and decide appeals regarding the official zoning map in
accordance with the limitations set forth in this chapter;
      (4)   Establish uniform bylaws and rules of procedure pertaining to
review of applications, conduct of public hearings and issuance of permits; and
      (5)   Invoke any authorized legal, equitable or special remedy for the
proper and effective enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   Issue in the name of the village, zoning permits, occupancy permits
and other permits required or appropriate to the proper administration and
enforcement of this chapter and maintain records thereof;
      (2)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and the use of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this chapter and report said findings to
the Commission and Board of Zoning Adjustment for purposes of ordering
compliance with this chapter;
      (3)   Provide interpretation of this chapter and official zoning map when
requested by an applicant, the Commission or the Board of Zoning Adjustment and
provide and maintain public information relative to all matters rising out of
this chapter; and
      (4)   Maintain permanent and current records related to this chapter,
including, but not limited to, all maps, amendments, certificates and permits,
variances, conditional uses, appeals and applications therefore and records of
meetings and public hearings.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.147 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter that all questions of interpretation
and enforcement shall first be presented to the Zoning Administrator and that
such questions shall be presented to the Board of Zoning Adjustment only on
appeal from the decision of the Zoning Administrator and that recourse from the
decisions of the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be to the courts as provided
by law.
   (B)   It is further the intent of this chapter that the duties of the
Village Board of Trustees in connection with this chapter shall not include
hearing and deciding questions of interpretation and enforcement. The procedure
for deciding such questions shall be as stated herein. Under this chapter, the
Village Board of Trustees shall have only the duties of appointment of a Zoning
Administrator, the funding of such office and necessary legal services to
enable proper administration and enforcement of this chapter, considering and
adopting or denying proposed amendments to this chapter or the official zoning
map or the repeal of this chapter and of establishing of fees and charges as
stated in this chapter.
   (C)   If the Zoning Administrator shall find that any of the provisions of
this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify the person responsible
for such violation in writing, indicating the nature of the violation and order
the action(s) necessary to eliminate the violation. He or she shall order
removal of illegal buildings, structures and discontinuance of uses of land and
order the elimination of any other type of violation to ensure compliance with
the requirements of this chapter and shall take any other action authorized
herein and by statute to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.148 ZONING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. No building or other structure shall be erected,
moved, added to, expanded or structurally altered without a zoning permit
authorizing such activity issued by the Zoning Administrator. No zoning permit
shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator except in conformity with all
applicable provisions of this chapter, unless the Zoning Administrator shall
receive a written order from the Board of Adjustment in the form of a variance,
authorized under the terms and conditions of this chapter.
   (B)   Application for zoning permit.
      (1)   An application for a zoning permit shall be accompanied by plans,
drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built
upon, the sizes and locations of buildings or structures already existing on
said lot, if any, the location and dimensions of the proposed building(s) or
addition or expansion thereof. All dimensions relating to lot dimensions shall
be provided by the applicant and the applicant shall assume the liability with
regard to any errors in said dimensions. The application shall include such
other information as may be required by the Zoning Administrator, including the
identification of building alterations, existing and proposed uses of the
building(s) and land, the number of families, housekeeping units or rental
units the building is designed for, conditions existing on the lot, easement
locations and such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance
of the proposed building, structure or use with this chapter and its
enforcement.
      (2)   One copy of any approved zoning permit, together with any
conditions of such permit shall be provided to the applicant by the Zoning
Administrator. If an application for a zoning permit is denied, the Zoning
Administrator shall indicate to the applicant the reason(s) for such denial.
The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a permanent record of all applications
for zoning permits and maintain one copy of each permit which is approved. The
issuance of a zoning permit shall, in no case, be construed by the applicant or
any other person or persons as waiving any requirement of this chapter.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.149 CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE (OCCUPANCY PERMIT) FOR NEW, ALTERED,
NON-ALTERED OR NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy
of any building or premises, or both, or part thereof, created, erected,
changed, converted or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use until a
certificate of zoning compliance shall have been issued by the Zoning
Administrator. Said certificate shall state that the use or uses of the
building or premises conforms to the requirements of this chapter and authorize
occupancy of such building or premises for the use or uses so stated.
   (B)   No certificate of zoning compliance shall be issued by the Zoning
Administrator except in conformity with the requirements of this chapter,
unless the Administrator has received a written order from the Board of
Adjustment in the form of a variance for any attribute of the building,
structure or premises other than the use, authorized under the terms and
conditions of this chapter.
   (C)   If the Zoning Administrator determines that the construction or
development for which a zoning permit has been issued is not proceeding
according to applicable requirements of this chapter or is contrary in any way
to the information and conditions included on such approved zoning permit, or
is otherwise proceeding in violation of law, the zoning permit shall be revoked
and the Zoning Administrator shall issue a stop work order to the applicant
whose name and address is indicated on the affected building permit.
   (D)   A certificate of zoning compliance shall not be issued to any
nonconforming use, except when a nonconforming use is converted to a permitted
use or another nonconforming use which is authorized in accordance to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   When a certificate of zoning compliance is requested by any applicant
between November 1 and April 30 of any year, and all required landscape screens
or buffers required by this chapter have not or cannot be installed due to
weather conditions, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a certificate of
zoning compliance, provided the applicant shall first submit a detailed
landscaping plan conforming to the definition(s) of landscape screen and/or
landscape buffer set forth in this chapter to the Zoning Administrator and
shall sign and certify on said plan that the landscaping indicated shall be
installed by June 30 of the following year if the certificate of zoning
compliance is issued on or before November 1, and by June 30 of the same year
if said certificate is issued between January 1 and April 30. This deferred
landscaping provision shall not apply to any certificate of zoning compliance
issued on dates other than specified in this division (E).
   (F)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a permanent record of all
certificates of zoning compliance issued. Failure to obtain a certificate of
zoning compliance shall be a violation of this chapter and shall be punishable
under §
153.999.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.150 EXPIRATION OF ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   If the construction described in any issued zoning permit has not been
initiated within six months from the date of the issuance thereof, said zoning
permit shall expire and be canceled by the Zoning Administrator with written
notice thereof provided to the applicant for such permit. If the construction
described in an issued zoning permit has not been completed beyond one-fourth
of its construction cost within two years from the date of issuance thereof,
said zoning permit shall expire and be canceled by the Zoning Administrator
with written notice thereof indicating to the applicant for such permit that no
further construction shall proceed unless a new zoning permit has been issued.
   (B)   A zoning permit and certificate of zoning compliance issued on the
basis of plans and application and approved by the Zoning Administrator
authorize only the use, arrangement and construction set forth in such permit
or certificate and no other use, arrangement or construction. Any use,
arrangement or construction at variance with the approved permit or certificate
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and punishable in accordance with §
153.999.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.151 SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   The fees and charges for a rezoning application, conditional use
application, variance application, zoning permit, certificate of zoning
compliance or such other permit as may be utilized under the terms of this
chapter shall be as established by the Village Board of Trustees and shall be
paid by the applicant at the time of application. A schedule of fees and
charges shall be posted in the office of the Zoning Administrator and may be
amended only by action of the Village Board of Trustees. Until all applicable
fees and charges are paid, no action shall be taken on any permit or
certificate.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
**** AMENDMENT ****
§ 153.165 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The Village Board of Trustees may from time to time supplement, change or
generally revise the zoning district boundaries and regulations contained in
this chapter by amendment. A proposal for any such amendment may be initiated
by the Village Board of Trustees, the Planning Commission or upon application
of the owner of property affected by this chapter. A filing fee, as established
by the Village Board of Trustees, shall be required for each application to be
considered by the Planning Commission and Village Board of Trustees. A proposal
for amendment initiated by the Planning Commission or Village Board of Trustees
shall not require payment of any fee.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.166 SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   All proposed amendments shall first be submitted to the Planning
Commission for review, comment and recommendation. Public notice of the time
and place of a public hearing shall be given by publication thereof in the
legal newspaper of the village at least ten days prior to such hearing. Such
notice shall contain a statement regarding the proposed amendment in
regulations or boundaries of any zoning district. In addition to the
publication of notice prescribed above, a notice shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on or near the property on which amendment action is pending.
Such notice shall not be less than 18 inches in height and 24 inches in width
with a white or yellow background and black letters not less than one and one-
half inches in height. Such posted notice shall be so placed upon the premises
that it is easily visible from the street nearest the premises and shall be so
posted at least ten days prior to the date of such public hearing. It shall be
unlawful for anyone to remove, mutilate, destroy or change such posted notice.
If the record owner(s) of any lots included in such proposed amendment are
nonresidents of the village, a written notice of such hearing shall be mailed
by certified mail to such owner(s), addressed to his, her or their last known
address at least ten days prior to the date of such public hearing.
   (B)   At the option of the Village Board of Trustees, in place of the posted
notice, the owners and occupants of the real estate to be affected by any
proposed amendment, and all owners and occupants of all real estate located
within 300 feet of the real estate affected by the proposed amendment, shall be
mailed a written notice of the public hearing by first class mail at least ten
days prior to such public hearing.
   (C)   The provisions of a notice of public hearing published in the legal
newspaper of the village, in accordance with the content and time requirements
of such public notice as specified herein, shall be applicable, but the posted
notice or written notice mailed to property owners provisions, as specified
herein, shall not apply when:
      (1)   The proposed amendment applies throughout the entire area of an
existing zoning district or the entire areas of the village and its
jurisdictional area; and
      (2)   The amendment proposes the establishment of additional or different
types of zoning districts, whether or not such additional or different
districts are made applicable to areas, or parts of areas, already within a
zoning district or the village and its jurisdictional area.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.167 PLANNING COMMISSION CONSIDERATION OF AMENDMENTS.
   Following a public hearing on any amendment, the Planning Commission shall
formulate a recommendation to the Village Board of Trustees to be summarized in
the minutes of the Commission which shall constitute a report to the Village
Board of Trustees. For action by the Commission on any amendment, a quorum of
one more than one-half of the total membership of the Commission shall be
present and voting. A vote either for or against the amendment by a majority of
the Commission members, but at least the number of members which constitutes a
quorum, shall constitute a recommendation of the Commission. The Planning
Commission shall cause its recommendation to be forwarded to the Village Board
of Trustees.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.168 BOARD OF TRUSTEES CONSIDERATION AND ACTION ON AMENDMENTS.
   Upon receipt of a recommendation from the Planning Commission regarding any
amendment, the Village Board of Trustees shall give public notice of a public
hearing in the same manner as prescribed in §
153.166. The Village Board of Trustees may approve or reject the
recommendations of the Planning Commission with regard to any amendment. If the
Commission should fail to submit a recommendation, the Village Board of
Trustees may take such action as it deems appropriate regarding such amendment.
If any amendment which is approved by the Village Board of Trustees affects the
boundaries of any zoning district, the ordinance adopted by the Village Board
of Trustees shall define the change in the boundaries of the zoning district,
shall order that the official zoning map be modified to reflect such amendment
and shall amend the article and section of this chapter, incorporating the same
and reincorporating the official zoning map.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.169 PROTESTS.
   Regardless of whether or not the Planning Commission recommends approval or
disapproval of a proposed amendment or fails to provide a recommendation to the
Village Board of Trustees, if a protest against any amendment is filed in the
office of the Village Clerk within 14 days after the date of the conclusion of
the public hearing pursuant to said publication notice, duly signed and
acknowledged by the owners or 20% or more of any real property, excluding
rights-of-way for public streets and ways, located within or outside of the
corporate limits of the village and located within 300 feet of the boundaries
of the property proposed to be rezoned, the ordinance adopting such amendment
shall not be passed except by at least three-fourths of all members of the
Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
**** COMPLAINTS, REMEDIES ****
§ 153.180 COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred,
any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint, stating fully the
cause and basis thereof, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator. The
Administrator shall properly record such complaint, immediately investigate the
complaint and take action thereon, as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.181 REMEDIES.
   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building or structure or
land is used in violation of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator and such
other authorities of the village may institute any appropriate action or
proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use of land, to prevent the
occupancy of said building, structure or land or to prevent any illegal act,
conduct, business or use in or about such premises.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   The owner(s) or agent of a building, structure or premises in or upon which
a violation of any provisions of this chapter has been committed or shall exist
or lessee or tenant or an entire building or entire premises in or upon which
such violation shall exist, or the agent, architect, engineer, building
contractor or any other person who commits, takes part or assists in any
violation or who maintains any building or premises in or upon which a
violation shall exist shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by
a fine not to exceed $100 for any one offense recoverable with costs. Each and
every day that such violation continues after notification of any violation
shall constitute a separate offense. In case any building or structure is
erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or
maintained, or any building, structure or land is used in violation of this
chapter, the proper local authorities of the village, in addition to other
remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion,
maintenance or use, to restrain, correct or abate such violation, to prevent
the occupancy of said building, structure or land, or prevent any illegal act,
conduct of business or use in or about such premises.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
APPENDIX A: OFFICIAL ZONING MAPS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/84c4ff8f122b5d9e84c31e6a93e51ec3fb316588/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1068.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/84c4ff8f122b5d9e84c31e6a93e51ec3fb316588/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1070.png]
 
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
APPENDIX B: APPLICATION AND PERMIT FORMS; GUIDANCE AND SAMPLE DOCUMENTS
   APPLICATION FOR CONDITIONAL USE
   ARNOLD, NEBRASKA
This portion to be filled out completely by applicant
1.   Under the provisions of the Arnold, Nebraska zoning regulations, the
undersigned hereby applies for approval of a Conditional Use to establish the
following use:
on the following real estate (provide legal description of real estate to be
affected by this application).
2.   Said real estate is currently zoned (include zoning district abbreviation
and zoning district name):
and a conditional use requested is allowable under this zoning district      
Yes       No
3.   Provide a site plan (a scaled sketch or drawing) which describes the use
proposed which includes all of the following information:
   A.   The size, location and height of all existing and proposed buildings
and structures involved in the proposed conditional use and the distances of
such buildings from the centerlines of any adjoining streets/roads and property
lines and the distance between buildings;
   B.   The location(s) of access to public roadways;
   C.   The types and locations of any easements affecting the property;
   D.   The location and type of water supply and sewage disposal facilities;
   E.   The number, size and location of parking spaces for customers of the
public;
   F.   The location of loading areas;
   G.   The type and location of refuse collection and storage facilities;
   H.   The locations, types and heights of any proposed fencing or screening;
   I.   An indication of proposed surface water drainage onto, through and off
of the affected property;
   J.   The type, size and location of all signs associated with such proposed
use; and
   K.   Any areas of property that are subject to flooding.
4.   Provide a written description of the use proposed and information
specified in applicable conditional use sections of the Arnold, Nebraska zoning
regulations for the particular type of conditional use (on separate sheets).
5.   I hereby certify that I have the legal authority to file this application
that I have completed and examined this application and know the same to be
true and correct. I further certify that all provisions of law and other
regulations governing the type of construction and use proposed in this
application will be complied with, whether or not specified in this
application, including any building, electrical or plumbing codes.
                                                                                
Printed Name of Applicant                        Mailing Address of Applicant
                                                                             
Signature of Applicant      Date of Application            Telephone Number of
Applicant
This section to be completed by the Zoning Administrator
1.   Application No.                   2.   Date received:           , 20
          . Application fee of $          paid
4.   Planning Commission Public Hearing Notice was published at least ten days
prior to such hearing and property owner notification was completed       Yes
      No
5.   Planning Commission public hearing was held and action was taken in
accordance with the Commission’s bylaws and rules of procedure       Yes      
No
6.   Recommendations of Planning Commission
                  Approve
                  Conditionally Approve-Recommended Conditions of Approval:    
                   Disapproval-Reason(s) for Disapproval:    
7.   Village Board Public Hearing Notice was published at least ten days prior
to public hearing and property owner notification was completed       Yes      
No
8.   Action taken by Village Board:
                   Approve
                   Conditionally Approve - Conditions of Approval:    
                    Disapprove - Reason(s) for Disapproval:    
9.   Notice of decision of Village Board of Trustees mailed to Applicant on
                , 20          
Signature of Zoning Administrator
   SAMPLE OF PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE FOR CONDITIONAL USE
NOTICE OF PROPOSED CONDITIONAL USE ON LAND WITHIN ZONING JURISDICTION OF
   THE VILLAGE OF ARNOLD, NEBRASKA
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that on  (date)  at  (time)  in the (location of
meeting) , the  (Planning Commission/Village Board of Trustees)  shall hold a
public hearing to consider a conditional use application authorized under
Ordinance No.           , the zoning regulations of the Village of Arnold,
Nebraska to permit the  (legal description of real estate included in proposed
conditional use)  to be used for  (conditional use purpose) . Said conditional
use request has been filed by  (name(s) of applicant(s)) .
All interested parties are invited to attend this public hearing, at which time
you will have an opportunity to be heard re-granting this proposed conditional
use. Written testimony will also be accepted at any time up to and including
the public hearing.
(name)
Village Clerk
NOTE:
This legal notice must be published once in the legal newspaper of the Village.
Notice shall also be given by posting in a conspicuous place on near the
property on which action is requested, and, if the record title owners of any
property for which a conditional use is proposed be nonresidents of the
village, then a written notice of such hearing shall be mailed by certified
mail to them, addressed to their last known address at least ten days prior to
such public hearing.
   Village of Arnold Zoning Regulations
   This form needs to be included in all applications!
   **************OFFICE USE ONLY*************
   Zoning Administrator
Name of Applicant:
                                                                                      
Address of Project:
                                                                                     
Date:                 
Permit Number:
                                                                                      
1.   Lot on which building/additions are proposed meets minimum lot width,
frontage and area requirements?
Yes       No       
2.   Building/addition complies with setbacks from street(s), other buildings
and property line? Yes       No       
3.   Building/addition complies with height limitations? Yes       No       
4.   Is building/use located in a wellhead protected area? Yes       No      
If yes, Building/use complies with requirements of the Wellhead Protection
Overlay District? Yes       No       
5.   Building/Addition/Uses requires Conditional Use/Variance approval? Yes
      No       
   a.   If yes, Conditional Use/Variance approval has been given and
application complies with all conditions of approval set forth in Conditional
Use/Variance approval Yes       No       
   b.   Conditions on use/variance    
6.   If proposed building/use is for commercial, industrial, public or other
non-residential use, minimum provisions for parking loading areas and sign will
be complied with? Yes       No       
7.   Does project require building around or covering a city utility meter? Yes
      No       
8.   
ADDITIONAL NOTES:
   Village of Arnold Zoning Regulations
   This form needs to be included in all applications!
   **************OFFICE USE ONLY*************
   Zoning Administrator
Name of Applicant:
                                                                                                           
Address of Project:
                                                                                       
Date:               
Permit Number:                                                              
1.   Lot on which building/additions are proposed meets minimum lot width,
frontage and area requirements?
Yes       No       
2.   Building/addition complies with setbacks from street(s), other buildings
and property line? Yes       No       
3.   Building/addition complies with height limitations? Yes       No       
4.   Is building/use located in a wellhead protected area? Yes       No      
If yes, Building/use complies with requirements of the Wellhead Protection
Overlay District? Yes       No       
5.   Building/Addition/Uses requires Conditional Use/Variance approval? Yes
      No       
   a.   If yes, Conditional Use/Variance approval has been given and
application complies with all conditions of approval set forth in Conditional
Use/Variance approval Yes       No       
   b.   Conditions on use/variance    
     
6.   If proposed building/use is for commercial, industrial, public or other
nonresidential use, minimum provisions for parking loading areas and sign will
be complied with? Yes       No       
7.   Does project require building around or covering a city utility meter? Yes
      No       
8.   
ADDITIONAL NOTES:
   REZONING APPLICATION
   ARNOLD, NEBRASKA
This portion to be filled out complete by Applicant
1.   APPLICANT: (Application must include names, addresses and signatures of
all owner(s) of the property for which a rezoning is requested)
Printed Name            Address            Signature
Printed Name            Address            Signature
(Add any additional names, addresses and signatures on the back of this form or
on an attached form)
2.   Legal Description of real estate for which a rezoning is requested:    
3.   Dimensions and total area of land to be rezoned: Dimensions            
Total Area                                    (in square feet)
4.   Present Zoning District (please list zoning district abbreviation and
name):                                                          
5.   Proposed Zoning District (please list zoning district abbreviation and
name):                                                        
6.   Present use of real estate included in this application:
                                                                                       
7.   Proposed use of real estate included in this application:
                                                                                     
8.   Present use of adjoining property to the:   North                  South
                 
                           East                    West                  
This Section to be completed by Zoning Administrator
 
1.   Application No.                  , 20               2. Date application
received:                  , 20           
 
3.   Fee in the amount of $                  paid by applicant
4.   Planning Commission Public Hearing Notice was published at least ten days
prior to such public hearing and requiring property owner notifications were
completed (attach copy of legal notice) Yes       No       
5.   Planning Commission public hearing was held and action was taken in
accordance with the Commission’s Bylaws and Rules of Procedure Yes       No
      
6.   Planning Commission recommendation to Village Board:              
Approval               Disapproval
7.   Village Board Public Hearing Notice was published at least ten days prior
to such public hearing and required property owner notifications were completed
(attach copy of legal notice) Yes       No       
8.   Village Board public hearing was held and action was taken Yes       No
      
9.   Decision of Village Board:                  Approval                 
Disapproval
10.   Notice of decision of Village Board mailed to Applicant on
                 , 20              
11.   If rezoning application was approved by the Village Board, the Official
Zoning Map was modified to reflect said rezoning and signed by Chairperson of
the Village Board of Trustees and the Village Clerk on                  , 20
             
                                                    
Signature of Zoning Administrator
   REZONING REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATION RECORD
   ARNOLD, NEBRASKA PLANNING COMMISSION
1.   Rezoning Application No.
                                                  
2.   Applicant Name:                                                   
3.   Date legal notice of Public Hearing was published:
                                 , 20                   
4.   Date of Public Hearing:                                                  
, 20                              
 
5.   Items considered in review of rezoning request:
   a.   Does the proposed rezoning conform with the Land Use Plan contained in
the Comprehensive Plan of the Village? Yes       No          Comments:    
(If rezoning proposed does not conform with the Land Use Plan contained in the
Comprehensive Plan, but the Commission determines that such rezoning may be
appropriate, the Comprehensive Plan must first be amended to make such rezoning
consistent with such Plan)
   b.   Does the land contained in the rezoning request meet minimum lot
frontage, width and area requirements?
Yes       No       
6.   Recommendation                     Approval                       
Disapproval
   Reasons for recommendation:    
7.   Voting of the Planning Commission:       Ayes       Nays to approve motion
to       Approve       Disapprove rezoning request (all votes of the Commission
of rezoning applications should be by roll call vote)
8.   Date of Planning Commission action on recommendation to Village Board of
Trustees:
, 20  
Month            Day            Year
                                                                                                                                    
Signature of Chairperson of the Planning Commission
   SAMPLE OF PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE FOR REZONING
   NOTICE OF PROPOSED CHANGE OF ZONING ON LAND WITHIN ZONING JURISDICTION
   OF THE VILLAGE OF ARNOLD, NEBRASKA
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that on  (date)  at  (time)  in the  (location of
meeting)  the  (Planning Commission/Village Board of Trustees)  shall hold a
public hearing to consider a request to amend Ordinance No.        , the zoning
regulations of the Village of Arnold, Nebraska to rezone the  (legal
description of real estate, including in the proposed rezoning)  from
(existing zoning district)  to  (Proposed zoning district) . Said rezoning
request has been filed by  (name(s) of applicant(s)) .
All interested parties are invited to this public hearing, at which time you
will have an opportunity to be heard regarding this proposed rezoning. Written
testimony will also be accepted at any time up to and including the public
hearing.
(name)
Village Clerk
NOTE:
This legal notice must be published once in the legal newspaper of the Village.
Notice shall also be given by posting in a conspicuous place on or near the
property on which action is requested, and, if the record title owners of any
property for which rezoning action is proposed be nonresidents of the Village,
then a written notice of such hearing shall be mailed by certified mail to
them, addressed to their last known address at least ten days prior to such
public hearing.
   SAMPLE OF PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE FOR AMENDMENT TO TEXT OF ZONING
   ORDINANCE
   NOTICE OF PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE ZONING REGULATIONS OF
   ARNOLD, NEBRASKA
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that on  (date)  at  (time)  in the  location of
meeting)  the  (Planning Commission/Village Board of Trustees)  shall hold a
public hearing to consider the following proposed amendment to Ordinance No.
      , the zoning regulations of the Village of Arnold, Nebraska.
Amend  (Article No., Section No, and Paragraph No.)  which reads:  (insert
existing text to be amended  to read as follows:  (insert proposed text)  .
All interested parties are invited to attend this public hearing, at which time
you will have an opportunity to be heard regarding this proposed rezoning.
Written testimony will also be accepted at any time, up to and including the
public hearing.
(name)
Village Clerk
NOTE:
Further posting or mailing of notices is not required
   Village of Arnold Zoning Regulations
   This form needs to be included in all applications!
   **************OFFICE USE ONLY*************
   Zoning Administrator
Name of Applicant:
                                                                                                             
Address of Project:
                                                                 Date:
                           
Permit Number:
                                                                                    
1.   Lot on which building/additions are proposed meets minimum lot width,
frontage and area requirements?
Yes       No       
2.   Building/addition complies with setbacks from street(s), other buildings
and property line? Yes       No       
3.   Building/addition complies with height limitations? Yes       No       
4.   Is building/use located in a wellhead protected area? Yes       No      
If yes, Building/use complies with requirements of the Wellhead Protection
Overlay District? Yes       No       
5.   Building/Addition/Uses requires Conditional Use/Variance approval? Yes
      No       
   a.   If yes, Conditional Use/Variance approval has been given and
application complies with all conditions of approval set forth in Conditional
Use/Variance approval Yes       No       
   b.   Conditions on Use/Variance    
6.   If proposed building/use is for commercial, industrial, public or other
nonresidential use, minimum provisions for parking loading areas and sign will
be complied with? Yes       No       
7.   Does project require building around or covering a city utility meter? Yes
      No       
8.   
ADDITIONAL NOTES:
   Village of Arnold Zoning Regulations
   This form needs to be included in all applications!
   **************OFFICE USE ONLY*************
   Zoning Administrator
Name of Applicant:
                                                                                                             
Address of Project:
                                                                 Date:
                           
Permit Number:
                                                                                    
1.   Lot on which building/additions are proposed meets minimum lot width,
frontage and area requirements?
Yes       No       
2.   Building/addition complies with setbacks from street(s), other buildings
and property line? Yes       No       
3.   Building/addition complies with height limitations? Yes       No       
4.   Is building/use located in a wellhead protected area? Yes       No      
If yes, Building/use complies with requirements of the Wellhead Protection
Overlay District? Yes       No       
5.   Building/Addition/Uses requires Conditional Use/Variance approval? Yes
      No       
   a.   If yes, Conditional Use/Variance approval has been given and
application complies with all conditions of approval set forth in Conditional
Use/Variance approval Yes       No       
   b.   Conditions on Use/Variance    
6.   If proposed building/use is for commercial, industrial, public or other
nonresidential use, minimum provisions for parking loading areas and sign will
be complied with? Yes       No       
7.   Does project require building around or covering a city utility meter? Yes
      No       
8.
ADDITIONAL NOTES:
   APPLICATION OF A VARIANCE TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE ZONING
   REGULATIONS
   ARNOLD, NEBRASKA
This portion to be filled out completely by Applicant
1. Name of Applicant:                                2.   Address of Applicant:
                                  
3. Status of Applicant (check one):             Property Owner
                               Option Holder
                               Contract Purchaser
                               Owner’s Authorized Agent
4. Legal Description of real estate for which variance is requested:    
5.   Variance requested::    
6.   Explain why the strict application of the zoning regulations would produce
an undue hardship: (a hardship must relate to peculiar situations of the
property (land) and not the convenience of the owner/applicant)::    
7.   Explain why such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in
the same zoning district and in the same vicinity:    
8.   Explain why the granting of the requested variance will not be of
substantial detriment to adjacent property::    
9.   I hereby certify that I have the legal authority to file this application,
that I have completed and examined this application and know the same to be
true and correct.
                                                                                     
Signature of Applicant
This Section to be completed by the Zoning Administrator
1.   Variance Case No.               2.   Application fee of $            paid
3.   Application received on:            , 20            
4.   Existing zoning of property affected by Variance Application:
                                              
5.   Reason building permit/certificate of zoning compliance denied (Cite
applicable section(s) of zoning regulations): :    
6.   Board of Adjustment Public Hearing Notice was published at least ten days
prior to such public hearing and required property owner notifications were
completed (attach copy of legal notice):       Yes       No
7.   Board of Adjustment public hearing was held and action was taken in
accordance with the Board’s Bylaws and Rules of Procedure:       Yes       No
8.   Action by the Board of Adjustment:
Hardship(s) found by Board if any (limited to those listed in the zoning
regulations)::    
           Approval
           Conditional Approval
Conditions of Approval::    
           Disapproval
Reason(s) for Disapproval::    
9.   Notice of Decision of Village of Adjustment mailed to Applicant on
           , 20            
                                                
Signature of Zoning Administrator
   VARIANCE REVIEW AND CONSIDERATION RECORD
   ARNOLD, NEBRASKA BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
Variance Case No.                2.   Name of Applicant
                                 
3.   Date of Public Hearing at which variance was considered:             , 20
            
4.   The Board of Adjustment made the following findings with regard to this
variance request:
   A.   Strict application of the requirements of the zoning regulations
(would/would not) result in an undue hardship on the owner of such property due
to exceptional narrowness, shallowness, shape, topography or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of the property. State
specific findings of the Board: :    
   B.   Such hardship (is/is not) shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity. State specific items peculiar to
this property not shared by others: :    
   C.   The authorization of such variance (will/will not) be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the zoning district will
not be changed by the granting of such variance. State specific reasons: :    
   D.   This variance (is/is not) based on reasons of demonstrable and
exceptional hardship dealing with the property and (is/is not) based on
conditions created by the owner or merely for the owner’s convenience or
profit. State specific reasons why or why not: :    
   E.   The condition or situation of the property (is/is not) of so general
and recurring nature as to make reasonably practical the formulation of a
general regulation to be adopted as an amendment to the zoning regulations.
State reason(s) why or why not::    
COMPLETE ON REVERSE SIDE
5. Action of the Board of Adjustment:           Approve           Disapprove
          Conditionally Approve
Conditions of Approval: :    
(attach additional conditions as needed)
Reason(s) for Disapproval::    
                                                                                      
Signature of Chairperson of Village Board of Adjustment
   SAMPLE OF PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE FOR VARIANCE/APPEAL
   NOTICE OF PROPOSED VARIANCE/APPEAL TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE ZONING
   REGULATIONS OF THE VILLAGE OF ARNOLD, NEBRASKA
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that on  (date)  at  (time)  in the  (location), in
Arnold, Nebraska the Village Board of Trustees, acting as the Board of
Adjustment shall hold a public hearing to consider an appeal of a decision of
the Arnold, Nebraska Zoning Administrator filed by  (name of applicant)  as
authorized in Ordinance No.                the Zoning Regulations of the
Village of Arnold, Nebraska with regard to interpretation of Article          ,
Section            of said Zoning Regulations. Said appeal is in regard to
property described as follows: (insert legal description on which appeal has
been filed).
or
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that on  (date)  at  (time)  in the  (location) , in
Arnold, Nebraska, the Village Board of Trustees, acting as the Board of
Adjustment, shall hold a public hearing to consider a variance to the
requirements of the Arnold, Nebraska Zoning Administrator filed by  (name of
applicant) as authorized in Ordinance No.             the Zoning Regulations of
the Village of Arnold, Nebraska. Said variance requested to allow a variance to
the requirements of Article      , Section           of such Zoning Regulations
to describe variance request). Said variance request is in regard to property
described as follows:  (insert legal description on which variance has been
filed) .
All interested parties are invited to attend this public hearing at which time
you will have an opportunity to be heard regarding this proposed amendment.
Written testimony shall also be accepted at the Office of the Village Clerk up
to and including the public hearing.
(name)
Village Clerk
NOTE:
This legal notice must be published once in the legal newspaper of the Village.
Notice shall also be given by posting in a conspicuous place on near the
property on which action is requested, and, if the record title owners of any
property for which a conditional use is proposed be nonresidents of the
Village, then a written notice of such hearing shall be mailed by certified
mail to them, addressed to their last known address at least ten days prior to
such public hearing.
   CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE
   ARNOLD, NEBRASKA
This portion to be filled out COMPLETELY by Applicant (or filled out by Zoning
Administrator and signed by Applicant)
The undersigned hereby applies for a Certificate of Zoning Compliance to occupy
and use a premises as follows:
1.   Legal Description of the property to be affected by the activity proposed:
:    
2.   Proposed use of premises: :    
3.   I hereby certify that I have the legal authority to file this application,
that I have completed and examined this application and know the same to be
true and correct. I further certify that all provisions of law and other
regulations governing the type of construction and use proposed in this
application have been complied with, whether or not specified in this
application.
                                                                                
Printed Name of Applicant               Mailing Address of Applicant
                                                                                                                                           
Signature of Applicant      Date of Application      Telephone No. of Applicant
This Section to be completed by the Zoning Administrator
CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE APPLICATION NO.             , 20             
This Certificate of Zoning Compliance is related to Zoning Permit No.
         issued to                            and dated
                                , 20               
1.   If proposed occupancy is a change of use where no new buildings or
additions are proposed and no zoning permit is needed, said building and use
will comply with all setback distances, water/sewage disposal requirements,
parking/sign regulations and other applicable zoning regulations (refer to
requirements on zoning permits)       Yes       No
2.   If building permit has been issued, building and proposed use complies
with all conditions of approval       Yes       No
3.   If use required a Conditional Use approval, building/use complies with all
conditions of approval       Yes       No
4.   If use required approval of a Variance by the Board of Adjustment, such
use complies with all conditions of approval of the approved variance       Yes
      No
5.   Site inspected on               , 20               to verify compliance
with all applicable conditions
6.   Inspectors comments: :    
7.   Certificate of Zoning Compliance issued on               , 20
              
                                                       
Signature of Zoning Administrator
Copy of approved Certificate of Zoning Compliance mailed to Applicant on
              , 20               
(Ord. 483, passed 10-14-2024)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   STREET NAMING AND VACATIONS
      
III.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
IV.   ANNEXATIONS
      
V.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
 
Ord. No.                                               Date Passed Description
-- -The governing body has granted to Great Plains
Cablevision, Inc., the authority to construct, operate
and maintain a community antenna television system in              
the municipality. Actual details of the agreement and
the charges, rates and fees are available at the
Municipal Clerk s office.
(Prior Code, 10-401)                                               
                                                                  
 
 
TABLE II: STREET NAMING AND VACATIONS
 
 
Ord. No.                                                Date Passed Description
eginning at the southwest corner of Lot 1 and
commencing north to northwest corner of Lot 9 all 20
feet of said adjoining alley shall be given to property
owners to the east of said alley. The remaining 60 feet             
of said alley adjoining Lot 10 shall be split between
adjoining land owners with each receiving a parcel of
ten feet by 60 feet.
                                                                   
 
 
TABLE III: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No.                                                Date Passed Description
roadway Street; thence S 00 26'04" W, on the west line
of the east 10.0 feet of vacated North Broadway Street,
a distance of 67.82 feet to the actual place of
beginning; thence continuing S 00 26'04" W, on the west
line of the east 10.0 feet of vacated North Broadway
Street, a distance of 45.28 feet; thence S 61 35'14" E              
a distance of 41.00 feet; thence S 8-9 22'06" E a
distance of 85.86 feet to a point on the west line of
the north-south alley through said Block 10; thence N
61 35'14" W a distance of 138.17 feet to the place of
beginning. Containing 3,582.0 square feet, more or
less.
 
 
TABLE IV: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
 
 
TABLE V: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section              Code Section
3-501 et seq.                35.51
9-601 et seq.                35.01
10-101 through 10-143        35.13
11-101                       33.26
11-104                       33.25
11-105                       33.25
11-109                       33.25
11-110                       33.25
11-111                       33.25
11-112                       33.25
11-113                       33.25
11-114                       33.25
11-115                       33.25
11-116                       33.25
11-117                       33.25
11-118                       33.25
13-403                       151.22
                             35.34;
13-501 et seq.               35.36 
                             35.38
13-503                       35.01
13-504                       35.33;
                             35.35
13-505                       35.33;
                             35.35
13-506                       35.34
13-507                       35.34
13-508                       35.35
13-509                       35.35;
                             35.53
13-509.01                    35.32
13-509.02                    35.32
13-511                       35.37
                             35.34;
13-518 through 13-522        35.35;
                             35.37
13-519                       34.04
13-606                       35.02
13-609                       35.15
13-801 et seq.               30.02;
                             35.51
13-903                       35.05
13-2001 through 13-2043      51.01;
                             51.02
13-2003 through 13-2016.01   51.15
                             51.16;
13-2020                      51.18;
                             51.22
13-2023                      51.22
13-2026                      51.22
13-2027                      51.17
13-2501 et seq.              35.51
13-3401 et seq.              35.53
16-318(3)                    31.05
16-714 through 16-716        35.10
17-202                       30.01
17-203                       30.01
17-204                       33.04
17-205                       33.04
17-207                       30.02;
                             110.02
17-207(11)                   130.076;
                             130.999
                             31.01;
17-208                       32.01;
                             91.01;
                             91.02
17-209                       33.40
                             30.01;
17-209.02                    31.02;
                             31.03;
                             33.40
17-210                       30.03;
                             30.25
17-213.01                    31.07
17-214                       31.08
17-502                       11.01
17-503                       151.20
17-503.01                    151.20
17-505                       30.20
17-509 through 17-521        151.36
17-522                       151.36;
                             151.55
17-524                       151.36
17-525                       110.01
                             93.02;
17-526                       93.05;
                             93.35;
                             93.36
17-531                       52.01
17-534                       52.01
17-536                       52.13
                             52.07;
                             52.10;
17-537                       52.11;
                             52.15;
                             52.16
17-538                       50.06
17-539                       52.14
17-540                       35.11;
                             52.08
17-541                       31.08
                             50.02;
17-542                       52.06;
                             52.09
17-543                       31.08
17-547                       93.02;
                             93.05
17-548                       93.05
                             92.01;
17-550                       92.03;
                             92.04;
                             92.06
17-555                       91.18;
                             130.002
17-556                       130.001;
                             130.060
17-557                       130.002;
                             151.03
17-557.01                    151.03
17-558                       151.50
17-559                       151.50
17-563                       91.16;
                             91.19
17-567                       151.02
17-568                       31.07
17-568.01                    31.07;
                             35.03
17-568.02                    35.03
17-601.01                    34.08
17-601.02                    34.08
17-601.03                    34.08
17-602                       34.03
                             31.01;
17-604                       31.09;
                             33.25;
                             33.40
17-605                       31.04
17-606                       31.05
17-606(2)                    31.05
17-607                       35.09
17-608                       35.11
17-609                       35.11;
                             35.12
17-610                       31.06
17-611                       33.40
17-612                       33.40
                             30.23;
17-613                       30.25 
                             30.27;
                             35.03
                             10.15;
17-614                       30.23;
                             30.24;
                             30.28
17-615                       30.26
17-616                       30.24
17-701                       35.30
17-702                       35.08;
                             35.52
17-703                       35.06
17-706                       35.36
17-708                       35.04
17-709                       35.04
17-710                       35.07
17-711                       35.04
17-714                       35.05
17-715                       35.05
17-720                       35.10
17-901                       53.004;
                             53.005
                             53.004;
                             53.005;
                             54.02 
17-902                       54.06;
                             54.08;
                             54.09;
                             54.13
17-902 through 17-904        54.01
17-906                       54.01
17-909                       54.01
17-919                       31.07
                             50.02;
17-925.01                    50.06;
                             53.001
17-925.02                    53.009
17-948                       90.01;
                             90.15
17-948 through 17-952        90.01
                             90.01;
17-949                       90.16 
                             90.18
17-951                       90.01;
                             90.15
17-952                       90.01;
                             90.15
                             90.31;
17-953                       90.32;
                             151.21
17-953 through 17-955        90.30
17-953.01                    151.21
17-954                       151.21
17-1001                      91.16
17-1237 et seq.              35.11
17-1269 et seq.              35.11
18-131                       30.25
18-132                       30.20
18-305 through 18-312        33.41
18-412.01                    35.03
                             50.06;
18-503                       53.003 
                             53.005
18-509                       53.006
18-1001 through 18-1006      151.20
18-1214                      35.54
18-1216                      35.06
18-1701                      31.04
                             30.02;
                             51.23;
                             91.16;
                             91.17;
                             91.99;
18-1720                      92.99;
                             110.02;
                             130.999;
                             150.31;
                             150.99;
                             151.99
                             91.99;
                             92.99;
18-1722                      130.999;
                             150.35;
                             150.99;
                             151.99
18-1722.01                   150.32
18-1729                      32.06
18-1736                      71.25;
                             71.26
18-1737                      71.26
18-1741.01                   71.25;
                             71.28
18-1741.04                   71.28
18-1741.06                   71.28
18-1748                      53.044
18-1755                      151.23
18-1756                      35.03
18-1757                      31.10
18-1801 through 18-1805      35.13
18-2101 et seq.              35.51
18-2101 through 18-2144      32.05
18-2101.01                   32.05
18-2701 et seq.              35.65 
                             35.68
                             35.30;
18-2801 et seq.              35.33;
                             35.38
18-2803                      35.38
18-2804                      35.02;
                             35.38
18-2805                      35.38
18-2806                      35.38
18-2807                      35.38
18-2808                      35.38
18-3301                      31.07
19-903                       32.04
19-908                       32.04
19-915                       30.28
19-922                       30.20
19-1101                      31.05
19-1102                      31.04
19-1103                      31.04;
                             31.05
19-1301                      35.08
19-1302                      35.08
19-1303                      35.08
19-1304                      35.08
19-1305                      52.01
19-1309                      35.50
19-1310                      35.50
19-1311                      35.50
19-1312                      35.50
                             54.02;
19-1404                      54.04 
                             54.11
19-2101 through 19-2106      51.01;
                             51.02
19-2417 through 19-2419      151.36
19-2701                      54.03
19-2902                      35.02
19-2903                      35.02
19-2904                      35.02
19-2905                      35.02
19-2906 through 19-2909      35.02
19-3701                      30.27
19-4301(1)                   151.06
20-203                       93.37
23-122                       31.04
25-505.01                    34.12
25-1801                      50.05
25-21,275                    50.05
25-21,276                    50.05
25-21,277                    50.05
25-21,278                    50.05
25-2703                      30.20
Chapter 28, Article 3        111.17
Chapter 28, Article 4        111.17
28-431                       130.045
28-512                       54.14
28-515.02                    50.04
28-520                       93.37
28-521                       93.37
28-523                       90.02
Chapter 28, Article 7        111.17
Chapter 28, Article 8        111.17
Chapter 28, Article 10       111.17
28-1008                      93.37
Chapter 28, Article 11       111.17
Chapter 28, Article 12       111.17
28-1202.03                   111.46
28-1303                      130.017
28-1321                      91.16;
                             130.015
28-1322                      130.003
29-4001 et seq.              130.075
29-4001 to 29-4014           130.075
29-4001.01                   130.075
29-4003                      130.075
29-4015 et seq.              130.075
                             30.01;
                             34.01;
32-101 et seq.               34.04;
                             34.06;
                             35.08;
                             35.51
32-110                       34.03
32-115                       34.03
32-404                       34.01;
                             34.05
32-405                       34.04;
                             34.12
32-532                       30.01
32-554                       30.01
32-556                       34.01
32-557                       30.01;
                             34.06
32-558                       34.10
32-559                       34.04
32-560                       30.05
32-560 through 32-572        30.05
32-561                       30.05
32-562                       34.12
32-564                       34.04
32-567 through 32-570        34.12
32-569                       30.05
32-574                       34.12
32-602                       30.01
32-604                       30.01
32-606.01                    30.05;
                             34.12
32-607                       34.11
32-608                       34.07;
                             34.09
32-615                       34.09
32-616                       34.09
32-617                       34.09
32-617.01                    34.09
32-618                       34.09
32-619                       34.09
32-621                       34.09
32-625                       34.11
32-625(2)                    34.09
32-627                       34.09
32-628                       34.09;
                             151.20
32-628 through 32-631        35.51
32-629                       34.09;
                             34.12
32-630                       34.09;
                             34.12
32-632                       34.12
32-710                       34.09
32-802                       34.02;
                             35.51
32-807                       34.14
32-918                       34.15
32-952 through 32-959        34.04
32-1013(4)                   34.15
32-1033                      34.10
32-1122                      34.13
32-1202                      34.04
32-1301                      34.12
32-1302                      34.12
32-1303                      34.12
32-1304                      34.12
32-1305                      34.12
32-1306                      34.12
32-1307                      34.12
32-1308                      30.05;
                             34.12
32-1309                      34.12
32-1525                      34.15
33-141                       31.05
39-301                       130.002
39-302                       130.002
39-307                       130.016
45-601 et seq.               35.14
45-623                       35.14
46-1212                      151.24
46-1501 through 46-1509      153.049
48-1503                      35.03
49-801(17)                   10.05
49-1408                      33.41
49-1425                      33.41
49-1499.03 through 49-14,103 33.41
49-1499.04                   33.41
49-14,102                    33.41
49-14,103.01                 33.41
49-14,103.02                 33.41
49-14,103.03                 33.41
49-14,103.04                 33.41
49-14,103.05                 33.41
D+>Neb. RS Section           Code Section
49-14,103.06                 33.41
51-201                       35.51
51-215                       35.08
51-216                       35.08
51-501                       35.51
52-601.01 through 52-605     130.045
                             111.03;
                             111.15 
53-101 et seq.               111.19;
                             111.22 
                             111.25
53-103.01 through 53-103.51  111.01
53-116.01                    111.19
53-118                       111.42
53-123.04(3)                 130.030
53-123.11(1)(c)              130.030
53-123.12                    111.18
53-124                       111.18;
                             111.21
53-124.01                    111.18
53-124.12                    111.21
53-124.15                    111.40
53-124.17                    111.18
53-125                       111.17
53-129                       111.18
53-131                       111.18
53-132                       111.18
53-133                       111.18;
                             111.40
53-134                       111.18
53-134.03                    111.18;
                             111.42
53-134.04                    111.25
53-135                       111.20
53-135.01                    111.18;
                             111.20
53-148                       111.22
53-167.02                    111.46
53-167.03                    111.46
53-168.06                    111.15
53-174                       111.45
53-175                       111.16
53-177                       111.40
53-177.01                    111.40
53-178                       111.41
53-179                       111.43
53-180                       111.02
53-183                       111.44
53-184                       111.45
53-186                       111.03
53-186(2)                    111.03
53-186.01                    111.03
53-194.03                    111.16
53-1,101                     111.23
53-1,102                     111.24
53-1,115                     111.25
53-1,121                     111.04
54-601                       93.35
54-606                       93.35
54-607                       93.02
54-617                       93.37
54-618                       93.37
54-619                       93.37
54-620                       93.37
54-621                       93.37
54-622.01                    93.37
54-623                       93.37
55-133                       70.01
56-602                       93.35
60-101 et seq.               35.54
60-169                       130.045
60-301 et seq.               35.54;
                             71.06
60-301                       130.045
60-302.01                    71.26
60-331.02                    71.26
60-352.01                    71.26
60-376                       130.045;
                             130.046
60-3,104                     35.54
60-3,113                     71.26
60-3,113.06                  71.27
60-462 et seq.               70.05
60-4,126                     72.03
                             70.01;
60-601 et seq.               70.05 
                             70.07
60-606 through 60-676        70.01
60-607                       70.01
60-610                       70.01
60-613                       70.01
60-624                       70.01;
                             72.01
60-631                       70.01
60-638                       70.01
60-646                       70.01
60-654                       70.01
60-656                       70.01
60-658.01                    70.01;
                             70.09
60-661                       70.01
60-669                       70.01
60-670                       70.01
60-671                       70.01
60-672                       70.01
60-676                       70.01
                             70.03;
60-680                       70.04;
                             71.01
60-681                       70.02
60-682.01                    70.09
60-683                       70.05
60-6,110                     70.06
60-6,118                     70.01
60-6,119                     70.07
60-6,134.01                  70.09
60-6,165                     71.10
60-6,166                     71.02
60-6,167                     71.08
60-6,185                     70.11
60-6,211.08                  111.03;
                             130.030
60-6,355                     72.01
60-6,356                     72.05
60-1901                      130.045
60-1902                      130.045
60-1903                      130.045
60-1903.01                   130.045
60-1903.02                   130.045
60-1904                      130.045
60-1905                      130.045
60-1906                      130.045
60-1907                      130.045
60-1908                      130.045
60-1909                      130.045
60-2410                      130.045
70-624.04                    33.41
70-1601                      50.01
70-1601 through 70-1615      50.04
70-1602                      50.03
70-1603                      50.03
70-1604                      50.03
70-1605                      50.02
70-1607                      50.03
70-1608 through 70-1614      50.03
70-1615                      50.03
71-423                       111.04
71-1557                      153.004
71-1572 to 71-15,168         32.02
71-1637                      35.51
71-1908 et seq.              130.075
71-4406                      93.20
71-4408                      93.05;
                             93.21
71-4411                      93.21
71-4603                      130.045
Chapter 72, Article 14       151.21
73-101 et seq.               35.03
Chapter 75, Article 3        130.030
77-1601                      35.53
77-1606                      35.51;
                             35.53
77-1632                      35.53
77-1633                      35.53
77-1702                      35.15
77-1725.01                   150.33
77-2201                      31.05
77-2201 through 77-2215      31.05
77-2202                      31.05
77-2209                      31.05
77-2210                      31.05
77-2212                      31.05
77-2341                      35.11
77-2362                      35.09
77-2363                      35.09
77-2364                      35.09
77-2365.01                   35.09;
                             35.10
77-2366                      35.09;
                             35.10
77-2386 et seq.              35.09
77-23,109 et seq.            35.11
                             34.04;
77-3442                      35.51;
                             90.01
77-3443                      35.51
77-3444                      34.04;
                             35.51
79-3401 et seq.              35.53
80-202                       35.51
81-145 through 81-162;       35.03
81-829.46                    31.09
81-829.51                    35.37
81-3423                      151.24
81-3445                      151.24
81-3449                      151.24
81-3453                      151.24
Chapter 81, Article 8        31.09
84-304                       35.02
84-712 through 84-712.09     31.04;
                             31.05
84-712(2)                    31.04
84-1201 et seq.              31.04
84-1407 et seq.              33.02;
                             33.08
84-1408                      33.02
84-1409                      33.01
84-1410                      33.07
                             33.02;
84-1411                      33.03;
                             33.05;
                             33.06
84-1411(7)                   33.02
84-1412                      33.08
84-1413                      33.10;
                             33.11
                             
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2026 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2026 Code Section
1-203              31.03
1-212              31.08
1-213              31.09
1-401              11.01
1-711              34.10
1-712              34.11
1-714              34.13
1-715              34.14
1-804              35.33
1-824              35.12
1-1001             33.99
2-101              30.04
2-202              32.02
2-203              32.02
2-204              32.02
2-205              32.02
2-206              32.02
2-207              32.02
2-208              32.03
2-301              32.99
3-101              52.01
3-102              52.02
3-103              52.03
3-104              52.04
3-105              52.05
3-106              52.06
3-107              52.07
3-108              52.08
3-109              52.09
3-110              52.10
3-111              52.11
3-112              52.12
3-113              52.13
3-114              52.14
3-115              52.15
3-116              52.16
3-118              52.17
3-119              52.35
3-120              52.36
3-121              52.37
3-122              52.38
3-123              52.39
3-124              52.40
3-125              52.41
3-126              52.42
3-127              52.43
3-128              52.44
3-129              52.45
3-130              52.46
3-131              52.47
3-132              52.18
3-133              52.19;
                   52.99
3-201              53.001
3-202              53.002
3-203              53.003
3-204              53.004
3-205              53.005
3-206              53.006
3-207              53.007
3-208              53.008
3-209              53.009
3-210              53.010
3-211              53.011
3-212              53.012
3-213              53.013
3-214              53.025
3-215              53.026
3-216              53.026
3-217              53.027
3-218              53.028
3-219              53.029
3-220              53.040
3-221              53.041
3-222              53.042
3-223              53.043
3-224              53.044
3-225              53.045
3-226              53.046
3-227              53.047
3-228              53.048
3-229              53.049
3-230              53.050
3-231              53.051
3-232              53.065
3-233              53.066
3-234              53.067
3-235              53.068
3-236              53.069
3-237              53.070
3-238              53.071
3-239              53.072
3-240              53.073
3-241              53.085
3-242              53.085
3-243              53.085
3-244              53.086
3-245              53.999
3-301              54.01
3-302              54.02
3-303              54.03
3-304              54.02
3-305              54.04
3-306              54.05
3-307              54.06
3-308              54.07
3-309              54.08
3-310              54.09
3-311              54.10
3-312              54.11
3-313              54.12
3-314              54.13
3-315              54.14
3-402              50.02
3-701              90.15
3-702              90.16
3-703              90.17
3-704              90.18
3-801              51.01
3-802              51.02
3-901              90.30
3-902              90.31
3-903              90.32
3-1001             50.99
4-201              51.15
4-202              51.16
4-203              51.17
4-204              51.18
4-205              51.19
4-206              51.20
4-207              51.21
4-208              51.22
4-209              51.23
4-304              91.17
4-401              91.99
4-402              91.99
5-103              70.03
5-104              70.04
5-106              Chapter 73, Sched. I
5-107              70.09
5-401              70.99
6-115              93.06
6-201              93.04
6-305              130.060
6-401              130.999
6-402              130.999
7-101              92.01
7-102              92.02
7-103              92.03
7-104              92.04
7-105              92.05
7-106              92.06
7-107              92.99
7-201              92.20
7-301              92.99
7-302              92.99
8-109              151.06
8-205              151.37
8-307              151.55
8-401              152.01
8-402              152.02
8-403              152.03
8-404              152.04
8-405              152.05
8-406              152.06
8-407              152.07
8-408              152.08
8-409              152.09
8-410              152.10
8-411              152.11
8-412              152.12
8-413              152.13
8-414              152.14
8-415              152.15
8-501              151.99
8-502              151.99
9-301              150.99
9-302              150.99
10-116             111.43
10-120             111.47
10-201             110.01
10-301             110.02
10-302             110.02
10-303             110.02
10-304             110.02
10-305             110.02
10-306             110.02
10-401             TSO Table I
10-601             110.99
                   
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
440      - -         54.05
340      9-11-2000   10.99
341      11-13-2000  10.99
343      5-14-2001   35.33
344      8-13-2001   52.19;
                     52.99
350      11-11-2002  TSO Table III
351      5-12-2003   53.006
354      12-8-2003   TSO Table I
359      8-8-2005    54.05
362      4-10-2006   TSO Table III
363      5-8-2006    54.05
365      8-14-2006   35.65 
                     35.68
368      11-27-2006  TSO Table IV
369      12-11-2006  TSO Table IV
370      3-12-2007   32.05
373      5-14-2007   TSO Table III
374      6-4-2007    52.08
375      6-11-2007   TSO Table III
377      7-9-2007    TSO Table III
378      7-9-2007    TSO Table III
379      7-23-2007   TSO Table II
383      4-14-2008   54.05
384      6-30-2008   TSO Table III
387      12-8-2008   TSO Table II
388      1-12-2009   Chapter 73, Sched. I
389      2-9-2009    32.04
390      3-9-2009    51.17
395      5-10-2010   52.08
397      6-14-2010   TSO Table III
399      7-7-2010    54.05
                     72.01 
403      12-13-2010  72.05;
                     72.99
405      3-14-2011   54.05
406      4-11-2011   111.43
411      4-9-2012    70.10
412      6-11-2012   130.075;
                     130.999
415      11-19-2012  52.20;
                     52.99
417      9-9-2013    54.05
423      2-9-2015    53.006
425      8-10-2015   TSO Table III
428      10-12-2015  54.05
429      10-12-2015  TSO Table II
430      10-12-2015  72.20 
                     72.22
431      3-14-2016   111.43
436      9-12-2016   TSO Table II
438      4-10-2017   TSO Table II
442      12-11-2017  92.06
444      5-14-2018   54.15
443      7- -2018    93.04
449      11-12-2018  54.05
450      11-12-2018  TSO Table I
452      1-14-2019   TSO Table III
453      4-29-2019   TSO Table II
454      7-8-2019    TSO Table III
455      7-8-2019    TSO Table III
456      7-8-2019    TSO Table III
459      10-14-2019  52.08
460      10-14-2019  53.006
463      8-10-2020   TSO Table III
466      5-11-2021   TSO Table III
472      11-14-2022  130.076;
                     130.999
473      2-13-2023   54.16
475      6-12-2023   52.08
476      6-12-2023   53.006
479      3-18-2024   TSO Table V
480      4-8-2024    150.01
                     153.001 
                     153.004;
                     153.015 
                     153.021;
                     153.035 
                     153.049;
                     153.060 
                     153.084;
                     153.095 
                     153.103;
                     153.115 
483      10-14-2024  153.119;
                     153.130 
                     153.133;
                     153.145 
                     153.151;
                     153.165 
                     153.169;
                     153.180;
                     153.181;
                     153.999;
                     Chapter 153, App. A;
                     Chapter 153, App. B
485      2-10-2025   52.08
486      2-10-2025   53.006
487      2-10-2025   31.10
489      4-14-2025   10.99;
                     32.06
491      5-12-2025   130.060
494      11-10-2025  51.25
495      11-10-2025  51.24
497      3-9-2026    153.044
498      3-9-2026    32.03
499      3-9-2026    54.04
500      3-9-2026    152.09
502      4-13-2026   153.044
503      4-13-2026   153.044
                    
 
