CLEARWATER, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local Legislation current through Ord. 2026-3, passed 5-11-2026
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER 1: ADMINISTRATION
   Article
      
1.   VILLAGE ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY
      
2.   VILLAGE BOARD
      
3.   ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
      
4.   APPOINTED OFFICIALS
      
5.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT
      
6.   ELECTIONS
      
7.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: VILLAGE ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY
Section
   
1-101   Corporate existence
   
1-102   Official corporate seal
   
1-103   Bonds; blanket bond
   
1-104   Oath of office
   
1-105   Salaries and payroll
   
1-106   Conflict of interest
   
1-107   Purchasing card policy
   
1-108   Expenditure policy for village employees
   
1-109   Equipment rental
   
1-110   Economic Development Plan
   
1-111   Lottery
§ 1-101 CORPORATE EXISTENCE.
   The Village of Clearwater, Nebraska, incorporated October 18, 1881, having a
population of fewer than 800 inhabitants, is hereby declared to be a village
and shall be governed in all respects by the laws regulating villages.
(Neb. RS 17-201)
§ 1-102 OFFICIAL CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the village shall be kept in the office of
the Village Clerk and may bear the following inscription: “Seal, Village of
Clearwater, Nebraska.” The Village Clerk shall affix an impression of said
official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances and all other
official papers issued by order of the Village Board and countersigned by the
Village Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-502)
§ 1-103 BONDS; BLANKET BOND.
   (A)   Official bonds of the village shall be in form, joint and several, and
shall be made payable to the village in such penalty as the Village Board may
set by resolution; provided, that the penalty amount on any bond shall not fall
below the legal minimum when one has been set by the state for each particular
official. All official bonds of village officials shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall
be freeholders of the county, or by the official as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company; provided, that no village
official, while still in his or her official term of office, shall be accepted
as surety on any other official’s bond, contractor’s bond, license bond or
appeal bond under any circumstances. Only companies that are legally authorized
to transact business in the state shall be eligible for suretyship on the bond
of an official of the village.
   (B)   All said bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of the village and any persons who may be injured by a
breach of the conditions of such bonds. No bond shall be deemed to be given or
complete until approved by the Village Board and all sureties are endorsed in
writing on said instrument by the Chairperson and Village Clerk pursuant to
said approval of the Board. All official bonds meeting the conditions herein
shall be filed with the Village Clerk for the official records, and it shall be
the duty of the Clerk to furnish a certified copy of any bond so filed upon the
payment of a fee which shall be set by resolution of the Village Board.
   (C)   The premium on any official bond required to be given may be paid out
of the General Fund or other proper village fund upon a resolution to that
effect by the Village Board at the beginning of any village year. All surety
and other bonds required by village ordinances or by state law for village
officials may be provided by the purchase of a blanket bond, undertaking or
equivalent insurance. The village may pay the premium for the bond or insurance
coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a minimum, an aggregate
of the amounts fixed by law or by the Village Board and on such terms and
conditions as may be required.
   (D)   If the sureties on the official bond of any officer of the village
become insufficient in the opinion of the Village Board, it may by resolution
fix a reasonable time within which said officer may give a new bond or
additional sureties as directed. In the event that the officer should fail,
refuse or neglect to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction
and approval of the Board, then the office shall by such failure, refusal or
neglect become vacant, and it shall be the duty of the Board to appoint a
competent and qualified person to fill said office. Any official reelected to
office shall be required to file a new bond after each election.
Statutory reference:
   Officers; powers, duties and compensation, see Neb. RS 17-604
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 11-104, 11-105, 11-110 through 11-119, 11-
121 and 11-122
§ 1-104 OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   All officials of the village, whether elected or appointed, except
when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering
upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall
be endorsed upon their respective bonds.
“I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the
constitution of the United States and the constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Village Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
§ 1-105 SALARIES AND PAYROLL.
   (A)   (1)   All salaries of elected and appointed officials shall be set by
ordinance and kept on file in the office of the Village Clerk, where they shall
be available to the public for inspection during office hours.
      (2)   The compensation of any elective official of the village shall not
be increased nor diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been
elected except when there has been a merger of offices; provided, that the
compensation of the members of the Village Board or a board or commission may
be increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member
whether or not the terms of one or more members commence and end at different
times.
      (3)   No elected official may be rehired at a greater salary if he or she
resigns and desires to be rehired during the unexpired term of office. Said
official may be rehired at a greater salary after the term of office during
which he or she resigned.
      (4)   The salaries of the elected and appointed officials of the village
shall be on file in the office of the Village Clerk and subject to public
inspection during office hours.
   (B)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided, it shall be the normal policy to
submit a claim for payroll and associated expenses to the Village Board of
Trustees for approval before payment is allowed.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) above, the following claims may be
paid prior to approval by the Village Board of Trustees:
         (a)   Village employee payroll and all associated state and federal
taxes;
         (b)   Village employee benefits; and
         (c)   Village payroll processing fees.
      (3)   Specific claims authorized under division (B)(2) above shall
include the employees’ names, gross salary or gross hourly rate and maximum
hours allowed for the relevant pay period.
(Res. 2023-3, passed 1-10-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-209 and 17-612
§ 1-106 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest,
or is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair
market value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the village which
spends and administers its own funds who is dealing with a contract made by
that board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected village official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by the decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body or any resident within the jurisdiction
of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after the contract
is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of any
person for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor or
services furnished under the contract to the extent the governing body has
benefited thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for the purposes of this
section. The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a
corporation shall not constitute an interest within the meaning of this
section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
not later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) above
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
§ 1-107 PURCHASING CARD POLICY.
   The Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts the following purchasing card
policy.
   (A)   The purpose of this policy is to establish procedures for use of the
village’s purchasing card (“P-Card”) to enable P-Card holders to purchase goods
and services quickly and efficiently.
   (B)   This policy is applicable to all village employees who utilize P-Cards
or process payments for P-Cards.
   (C)   (1)   All purchases made with a P-Card will be on behalf of the
village. Purchasing on behalf of the village requires special sensitivity on
the part of the purchaser to obtain fair and reasonable prices and spread
purchases among many suppliers. Individual employees authorized to use a P-Card
are hereinafter referred to as “cardholder.”
      (2)   The Village Clerk shall act as the village’s P-Card Coordinator.
Village P-Cards are intended to be the only source of credit card payment for
goods and services. Village employees shall not use any other credit cards, set
up charge accounts or pay with personal credit cards without written approval
of the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   The P-Card Coordinator may suspend, deactivate or revoke a P-Card at
any time it is deemed in the best interest of the village, including during an
investigation of possible misuse. If misuse of a P-Card involves personal
transactions, the cardholder must repay to the village all personal amounts,
including any applicable state, county or city taxes.
   (E)   Before a cardholder can receive a P-Card and be authorized to make
purchases on behalf of the village, the cardholder will be required to:
      (1)   Read and understand this policy; and
      (2)   Sign an agreement that the employee understands and agrees to
follow this policy.
   (F)   All purchases must be made by the cardholder, or the individuals who
are approved by the Board of Trustees to use the card. No member of the
cardholder’s family, other employees, supervisor or anyone else may use the
card. The P-Card must not be used for personal purchases. Cardholders must
protect the security of the P-Card and the P-Card number. Cardholders must not
exceed the established transaction limit of $1,500 per month for all P-Cards
held by the village. Cardholders must not split purchases to circumvent the
transaction limit or to circumvent any applicable competitive bidding
thresholds. Cardholders must not accept any gift or gratuity from any source
when it is offered or appears to be offered to influence decisions regarding P-
Card purchases. Any and all rebates or special offers offered to the cardholder
must be received by the village. If a cardholder has questions about the
limitations on P-Card usage, the cardholder should contact the P-Card
Coordinator before proceeding with the transaction. Cash advances are
prohibited P-Card transactions.
   (G)   The P-Card may be used to make transactions over-the-counter, by mail,
via telephone or online. The cardholder is required to account for all
transactions made using the P-Card. This includes maintaining original,
detailed receipts (printed confirmations of online transactions) and
reconciliation of all transactions. Such original documents should be filed
with the P-Card Coordinator. Original documents shall be stored according to
village records and retention schedules. If a contract is currently not in
place for materials or services purchased, cardholders must use reasonable
efforts to obtain three quotations, either verbal or written, and shall use
their best judgment in determining an appropriate vendor based on the quotes
acquired. If a product will be shipped or delivered, the cardholder shall
instruct the vendor to enclose or mail a copy of the receipt/invoice with each
shipment.
   (H)   The P-Card may be used to pay for business-related registration fees,
including lodging and airline/travel expenses. Conference and seminar
registration fees may be billed on a P-Card. The name of person, purpose of
trip, travel dates and destination must be included in the supporting
documentation. Meals associated with travel may not be charged on a P-Card if a
per diem rate has been established by the Board of Trustees.
   (I)   A cardholder must maintain a purchase record, with detailed
documentation to substantiate purchases. Documentation should include the name
of the supplier/vendor, the date, the items description and pricing, applicable
taxes and ancillary charges. The following are examples of supporting
documentation:
      (1)   Cash or sales receipts;
      (2)   Invoices;
      (3)   E-mailed order confirmations;
      (4)   Online screen prints of purchases;
      (5)   Subscription forms or dues statements;
      (6)   Conference registration forms; and
      (7)   Airline or lodging confirmation documents and invoices/statements.
   (J)   Any subscription, maintenance agreement or other type of service which
includes a contract, agreement or set of terms and conditions associated with
the purchase must be reviewed and approved by the Board of Trustees prior to
paying for the services with a P-Card.
   (K)   It is the responsibility of the P-Card Coordinator to verify the
correctness of bank statements against the purchase record and receipts.
   (L)   The P-Card Coordinator will conduct random audits of P-Card use. The
primary purpose of these audits is to ensure that the P-Card program procedures
are being followed and that:
      (1)   Purchase volume appears reasonable;
      (2)   The card is being used for appropriate transactions; and
      (3)   Information is being submitted properly and paper copies, once
reconciled, are forwarded for records retention.
   (M)   Any records generated by a P-Card purchase may be considered a public
record pursuant to applicable state statutes and may be subject to disclosure
during an investigation or litigation.
   (N)   A cardholder must notify the P-Card Coordinator immediately when it is
discovered that a card is lost or stolen. The P-Card Coordinator shall notify
the bank of the incident and begin the process of reissuing a new card, if
necessary.
   (O)   Exceptions to the P-Card restrictions may be granted in advance of the
purchase upon written request from the cardholder to the Board of Trustees. In
emergency circumstances (i.e., lost card, malfunction and the like), employees
who are not able to use the P-Card must notify the P-Card Coordinator of the
situation. The P-Card Coordinator will determine if an alternate card or some
other option is available to eliminate the need for use of a personal credit
card. If the P-Card Coordinator cannot develop a viable option or if the P-Card
Coordinator cannot be reached, the employee may use his, her or their personal
card. If a situation occurs after business hours, the employee may use his or
her personal card, but must call the P-Card Coordinator as soon as possible the
next business day to inform him, her or them of the issue. If the employee had
to use his or her personal card for the reasons described above, the employee
may submit claims for reimbursement to the Board of Trustees for review in the
following manner.
      (1)   Within ten working days after the transaction, the employee shall
complete and submit to the P-Card Coordinator an itemized claim, attaching all
necessary supporting receipts and other documentation. The employee must also
indicate on the reimbursement claim why a P-Card was not utilized.
      (2)   The P-Card Coordinator shall examine the employee’s claim for
proper accounting and documentation. The Coordinator shall ensure that all
necessary supporting documentation and/or statements of explanation are
attached before signing the claim and submitting the same to the Board of
Trustees for its consideration.
   (P)   As a rule, the village is exempt from paying state and local sales
tax. In the event a vendor charges sales tax, the cardholder and P-Card
Coordinator shall work with the vendor to remove sales tax from billing, if
possible.
(Ord. 2022-15, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 1-108 EXPENDITURE POLICY FOR VILLAGE EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Purchases of a routine and/or non-emergency nature by employees of the
village shall not exceed: $250 without approval of the Chairperson of the
Village Board of Trustees; or $500 without approval of the Village Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Purchases greater than $500 but less than $30,000 shall only be
purchased after submitting a quote to the Board of Trustees for its approval.
   (C)   Purchases exceeding $30,000 shall be let out for public bids.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   Purchases made in cooperation with the state and its statewide
purchasing pool that are made in a competitive bidding process; or
      (2)   Purchases made in response to emergency needs, by natural
disasters, national emergencies or any other emergency situation when such
purchases are made to protect persons, property or citizens of the village.
(Res. 2024-2, passed 5-13-2024)
§ 1-109 EQUIPMENT RENTAL.
   (A)   Residents, businesses and nonprofit organizations of the village may
request use of certain equipment and personal property and services of the
village. Any such equipment or personal property must be operated by village
personnel. Upon receipt of said request, village personnel will evaluate the
same to determine whether:
      (1)   Village personnel have the time to complete said request;
      (2)   Village personnel are qualified to perform the same; and
      (3)   The risk of completing the request is acceptable. If the request is
approved, rates shall apply as set by resolution, available at the Village
Office:
   (B)   Prior to receiving the equipment, property or services specified
above, the person requesting the same must sign a waiver of liability, attached
to the ordinance codified in this section as “Exhibit A,” unless the requestor
is only asking for photocopies.
(Res. 2023-6, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 1-110 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The city’s Economic Development Plan, including the Workforce Housing Plan
and the Clearwater, Orchard, Royal and Ewing organization “CORE”, and any and
all amendments, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if
set out in full.
(Res. passed 2-11-1991; Ord. 2012-2, passed 2-13-2012; Ord. 2022-2, passed 2-
16-2022; Ord. 2022-17, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 1-111 LOTTERY.
   (A)   The village is hereby committing to joining other state cities,
villages and counties in the State Cooperative Government Interlocal Agreement
for the purpose of conducting a lottery under the State County and City Lottery
Act for the purposes of community betterment, agreeing to be bound by the terms
of such Agreement, and repealing ordinances and/or resolutions in conflict.
   (B)   The village desires to and hereby does elect to become a party to the
State Cooperative Government Interlocal Agreement and agrees to be bound hereby
to the same extent as an original party hereto and shall be entitled to the
rights and privileges thereto appertaining. The Mayor/Chairperson is hereby
authorized to execute the said Interlocal Agreement on behalf of the village.
(Res. 2024-9, passed 12-9-2024)
Cross-reference:
   Public funds defined; State County and City Lottery Act, see §
1-502
ARTICLE 2: VILLAGE BOARD
Section
   
1-201   General powers
   
1-202   Number and qualifications
   
1-203   Vacancy
   
1-204   Vacancy due to unexcused absences
   
1-205   Chairperson; selection and duties
   
1-206   Meetings; defined
   
1-207   Meetings; public body; defined
   
1-208   Meetings; public participation
   
1-209   Meetings; open to public; notice; agenda
   
1-210   Meetings; notice to news media
   
1-211   Meetings; place, day, time; quorum
   
1-212   Meetings; reorganizational; standing committees
   
1-213   Meetings; order of business
   
1-214   Meetings; parliamentary procedure
   
1-215   Meetings; minutes
   
1-216   Meetings; votes
   
1-217   Meetings; closed sessions
   
1-218   Meetings; special
   
1-219   Meetings; emergency
   
1-220   Slip ordinances and cumulative supplements
§ 1-201 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances:
      (1)   To prevent and remove nuisances within the village or within its
one-mile zoning jurisdiction;
      (2)   To restrain and prohibit gambling;
      (3)   To provide for licensing and regulating theatrical and other
amusements within the village;
      (4)   To prevent the introduction and spread of contagious diseases;
      (5)   To establish and regulate markets;
      (6)   To erect and repair bridges;
      (7)   To erect, repair and regulate wharves;
      (8)   To regulate the landing of watercraft;
      (9)   To provide for the inspection of building materials to be used or
offered for sale in the village;
      (10)   To govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the
streets and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining,
and all excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village;
      (11)   To maintain the peace, good government and welfare of the village
and its trade and commerce; and
      (12)   To enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon inhabitants
or other persons for violation of such ordinances, not exceeding $500 for any
one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-207)
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress and prevent nuisances, and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance, and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise this power
and authority within its corporate limits and extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction.
   (C)   The village may enter into an interlocal agreement pursuant to the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, Neb. RS 13-801 et seq., with a county in which the
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village is located to provide for
joint and cooperative action to abate, remove or prevent nuisances within such
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction. The governing body of such village and
the county board of such county shall first approve such interlocal agreement
by ordinance or resolution.
(Neb. RS 18-1720)
§ 1-202 NUMBER AND QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Village Board shall consist of five members. Any person who is a citizen
of the United States, a resident of the village at the time of his or her
election and a registered voter is eligible to be elected to the Board. Every
Trustee so elected and so qualified shall hold his or her office for a term of
four years; provided, that a Trustee’s term shall expire and the office will
become vacant upon a change of residence from the village.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-202 and 17-203
§ 1-203 VACANCY.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560, except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) below, vacancies
in elected offices shall be filled by the Village Board for the balance of the
unexpired term. Notice of vacancy, except a vacancy resulting from the death of
the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to the Board at a regular or
special meeting and shall appear as a part of the minutes of such meeting. The
Village Board shall at once give public notice of the vacancy by causing to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the village or by
posting in three public places in the village the office vacated and the length
of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Village Board shall call a special meeting or
place the issue of filing such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular
meeting, at which time he or she shall submit the name of a qualified
registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The
regular or special meeting shall occur within four weeks after the meeting at
which such notice of vacancy has been presented or within four weeks after the
death of the incumbent. The Board shall vote upon such nominee and if a
majority votes in favor of such nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled.
If the nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall
be rejected and the Chairperson shall at the next regular or special meeting
submit the name of another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If
the subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the
Chairperson shall continue at such meeting to submit the names of qualified
registered voters in nomination, and the Board members shall continue to vote
upon such nominations at such meeting until the vacancy is filled. All Board
members present shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of
the Board who has been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board shall have the
same rights, including voting, as if such person were elected.
   (D)   The Board may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in the elected office as
provided in division (A) above, call a special election to fill such vacancy.
   (E)   If vacancies exist in the offices of a majority of the members of the
Village Board, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special election to fill
such vacancies.
   (F)   Any vacancy due to a recall election shall be filled as provided in
Neb. RS 32-1308.
(Ord. 91-1, passed 1-14-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-569 and 32-1308
§ 1-204 VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the Village Board shall exist if a member is absent from more than two
consecutive regular or special meetings unless the absences are excused by a
majority vote of the remaining members.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the term EXCUSED ABSENCE shall be
defined to include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Sickness of Board member or immediate family;
      (2)   Situations where attendance by a Board member at a regular or
special meeting properly convened by the Board would constitute a conflict of
interest or the appearance of impropriety;
      (3)   Funeral attendance necessitated by the death of Board members,
immediate family or relative;
      (4)   Absence due to work-related conflict;
      (5)   Absence due to scheduled vacation or leave; and
      (6)   Any other absence which, by proper vote of the Village Board as set
forth in division (A) above, is deemed to be an EXCUSED ABSENCE.
(Ord. 93-1, passed 2-8-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-3101
§ 1-205 CHAIRPERSON; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The Village Board Chairperson shall be selected at the first regular meeting
of the Board in December by the members from their own membership. The
Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board. In the absence of the
Chairperson, the Village Board shall elect one of its members to occupy the
position temporarily, who shall hold the title of Chairperson pro tempore. The
Chairperson and the Chairperson pro tempore shall have the same powers and
privileges as other members of the Board. The Chairperson shall cause all
ordinances of the Board to be printed and published for the information of the
inhabitants. The Chairperson shall also perform all duties of his or her office
in accordance with state laws and village ordinances. The qualifications for
the Chairperson shall be the same general qualifications that apply to the
members of the Village Board.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-203, 17-204 and 17-210
§ 1-206 MEETINGS; DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of any
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy or the taking of any action of the public body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
§ 1-207 MEETINGS; PUBLIC BODY; DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The Board of Trustees;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies created by the State Constitution,
statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
§ 1-208 MEETINGS; PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this article and the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407 et
seq., the public has the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of
public bodies, and all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for
closed sessions called pursuant to § 1-217, may be videotaped, televised,
photographed, broadcast or recorded by any person in attendance by means of a
tape recorder, a camera, video equipment or any other means of pictorial or
sonic reproduction or in writing. Except for closed sessions called pursuant to
§ 1-217, a public body shall allow members of the public an opportunity to
speak at each meeting.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this article or
the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq., hold a meeting in a place known
by the body to be too small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq., posted in the meeting room at a location
accessible to members of the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the
public shall be informed about the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)
§ 1-209 MEETINGS; OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open the public in
order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
State Constitution, federal statutes and the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407
et seq.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be given by:
         (a)   1.   a.   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation
within the public body’s jurisdiction that is finalized for printing prior to
the time and date of the meeting;
               b.   Posting on such newspaper’s website, if available; and
               c.   Posting on a statewide website, if available, established
and maintained as a repository for such notices by a majority of state
newspapers.
            2.   Such notice shall be placed in the newspaper and on the
websites by the newspaper.
         (b)   1.   a.   Posting to the newspaper’s website, if available; and
               b.   Posting on a statewide website, if available, established
and maintained as a repository for such notices by a majority of state
newspapers if no edition of a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body’s jurisdiction is to be finalized for printing prior to the time
and date of the meeting.
            2.   Such notice shall be placed in the newspaper and on the
websites by the newspaper.
         (c)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in
such city, village or district. Such notice shall be posted by the village in
the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   (a)   In case of refusal, neglect or inability of the newspaper to
publish the notice, the public body shall:
            1.   Post such notice on its website, if available;
            2.   Request the newspaper submit a post on a statewide website, if
available, established and maintained as a repository for such notices by a
majority of state newspapers; and
            3.   Post such notice in a conspicuous public place in such public
body’s jurisdiction.
         (b)   The public body shall keep a written record of such posting
pursuant to division (B)(3)(a)1. and (B)(3)(a)2. above and a written record of
the request to the newspaper pursuant to division (B)(3)(a)2. above. The record
of such posting shall be evidence that such posting was done as required and
shall be sufficient to fulfill the requirement of publication.
      (4)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2) or
(B)(3) above, such notice may also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by such public body or such advisory committee.
      (5)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (6)   (a)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the
time of the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be
kept continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the
office of the public body during normal business hours.
         (b)   Agenda items shall be sufficiently descriptive to give the
public reasonable notice of the matters to be considered at the meeting. Except
for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be altered later than 24
hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the
scheduled commencement of a meeting of the Board of Trustees scheduled outside
the corporate limits of the village.
         (c)   The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to
include items of an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
Statutory reference:
   Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1411(7)
§ 1-210 MEETINGS; NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Village Clerk, in the case of the Board of Trustees, and the secretary
or other designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news
media requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
 § 1-211 MEETINGS; PLACE, DAY, TIME; QUORUM.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the Village Board shall be held on the second
Monday of each month at 7:00 p.m. at the Fire Hall meeting room.
   (B)   At all meetings of the Village Board, a majority of members shall
constitute a quorum to do business. A smaller number may adjourn from day to
day and may compel the attendance of absent members in such manner and under
such penalties as the Board may have previously prescribed by ordinance.
   (C)   Any change in time or date of the regular meeting of the Village Board
shall be published in the Summerland Advocate-Messenger and posted in three
public places: Cornerstone Bank, Clearwater U.S. Post Office and Clearwater
Market.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 12-13-2023; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-204 and 17-205
§ 1-212 MEETINGS; REORGANIZATIONAL; STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   All Trustees elected to office shall qualify and meet on the first
regular meeting of the Village Board in December thereafter, organize, elect a
Chairperson and appoint the officers required by law. The Board shall, by
resolution, fix the time and place of holding its stated meetings and may be
convened at any time by the Chairperson.
   (B)   Every Trustee, before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
shall take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States and the
State Constitution and faithfully and impartially to discharge the duties of
his or her office.
   (C)   At the reorganizational meeting, the Chairperson shall appoint members
to the following standing committees: Water and Sewer, Street, Landfill and
Recycle and Park and Recreation. The membership of such committees may be
changed at any time by the Chairperson, who shall be an ex officio member of
each standing committee. The members of the committees shall serve terms of
office of one year unless reappointed.
(Neb. RS 17-204)
§ 1-213 MEETINGS; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the Village Board, the Village Clerk and such other village
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the village shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the order prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the Village Clerk.
§ 1-214 MEETINGS; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Unless the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, the rules of
parliamentary procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of
the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Chairperson shall preserve order during meetings of the Board of
Trustees and shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the
Board. When any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the
point is decided. When the Chairperson is putting the question, no person shall
leave the meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise
from his or her seat and address the presiding officer and, while speaking,
shall confine his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons
rise at once, the Chairperson shall recognize the one who spoke first.
   (C)   (1)   All resolutions or motions shall be reduced to writing before
being acted upon if requested by the Village Clerk or any member of the Board.
Every member of the Board who is present when a question is voted upon shall
cast his or her vote unless excused by a majority of the members of the Board
present. No motion shall be put or debated unless seconded. When seconded, it
shall be stated by the Chairperson before being debatable. In all cases where a
motion or resolution is entered on the minutes, the name of the member of the
Board making the motion or resolution shall be entered also. After each vote,
the “yeas” and “nays” shall be taken and entered in the minutes. Before the
vote is actually taken, any resolution, motion or proposed ordinance may be
withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor with the consent of the member of
the Board seconding the resolution, motion or ordinance. When, in the
consideration of an ordinance, different times or amounts are proposed, the
question shall be put on the largest sum or the longest time.
      (2)   A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member
voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the
question.
      (3)   When any question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained or seconded except the previous question, a motion to table and to
adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without debate.
   (D)   Any of the rules of the Board for meetings may be suspended by a two-
thirds vote of the members present. In all cases in which provisions are not
made by these rules, “Robert’s Rules of Order” is the authority by which the
Board shall decide all procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 1-215 MEETINGS; MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the village may have an
additional ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping
the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 1-216 MEETINGS; VOTES.
   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded shall be
by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record shall
state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting. The
requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a village
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the public. The vote
to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by secret ballot, but the
total number of votes for each candidate shall be recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 1-217 MEETINGS; CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The Village Board may hold a closed session by the affirmative vote of
a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of needless injury
to the reputation of an individual and if such individual has not requested a
public meeting. Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not be limited to,
such reasons as:
      (1)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
      (2)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or devices;
      (3)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
      (4)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for discussion
of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (C)   (1)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open
session. The vote of each member on the question of holding a closed session,
the reason for the closed session and the time when the closed session
commenced and concluded shall be recorded in the minutes. If the motion to
close passes, then the presiding officer immediately prior to the closed
session shall restate on the record the limitation of the subject matter of the
closed session. The public body holding such a closed session shall restrict
its consideration to matters during the closed portions to only those purposes
set forth in the minutes as the reason for the closed session. The meeting
shall be reconvened in open session before any formal action may be taken.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, FORMAL ACTION shall mean a
collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to make a decision on
any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order or ordinance or formation of
a position or policy but shall not include negotiating guidance given by
members of the public body to legal counsel or other negotiators in closed
sessions authorized under division (A) above.
   (D)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary
for: the protection of the public interest; or the prevention of needless
injury to the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled
only by a majority vote of the members of the public body. Such challenge and
its disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. No person or public body shall fail to invite a
portion of its members to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself
a subcommittee of the whole body for the purpose of circumventing the
provisions of this article. No closed session, informal meeting, chance
meeting, social gathering or electronic communication shall be used for the
purpose of circumventing the provisions of this article.
   (F)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to chance meetings or
to attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public
body at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened and
there is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the
public body has supervision, control, jurisdiction or advisory power.
(Ord. 95-2, passed 3-13-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1410
§ 1-218 MEETINGS; SPECIAL.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson or by three members
of the Village Board, the object of which shall be submitted to the Board in
writing. The call and object as well as the disposition thereof shall be
entered upon the journal by the Village Clerk.
   (B)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the Clerk shall notify the
Board members of the special meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice
of a special meeting need not be given to a Board member known to be out of the
state or physically unable to be present. A majority of the members of the
Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a smaller
number may adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of the absent
members. Whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
   (C)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Village Clerk shall proceed
to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a
quorum is present, the Board shall be called to order by the Chairperson, if
present, or if absent, by the President of the Board. In the absence of both
the Chairperson and the President, the Board members shall elect a President
pro tempore. All ordinances passed at any special meeting shall comply with
procedures set forth in Chapter 1, Article 3.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-204 and 17-205
§ 1-219 MEETINGS; EMERGENCY.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes, and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or
telecommunications equipment. The provisions of § 1-210 shall be complied with
in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes of such emergency meetings
specifying the nature of the emergency and any formal action taken at the
meeting shall be made available to the public by not later than the end of the
next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 1-220 SLIP ORDINANCES AND CUMULATIVE SUPPLEMENTS.
   An ordinance enacted to add, amend, modify or repeal a section of the
municipal code shall be held by Village Clerk as a slip ordinance until the end
of the calendar year. At the first regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of
the calendar year, the Board of Trustees shall authorize via resolution the
publication of a cumulative supplement to the municipal code, which shall
incorporate all slip ordinances and prior revisions to the municipal code and
shall revise the cross-reference table of a potential Chapter 11 to identify
all sections of the original code that are amended, modified or repealed by a
potential Chapter 11.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 2-16-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
ARTICLE 3: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
Section
   
1-301   Grant of power
   
1-302   Ordinances; style
   
1-303   Ordinances; title
   
1-304   Introduction of ordinances
   
1-305   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
1-306   Passage
   
1-307   Votes
   
1-308   Ordinances; publication or posting; certificate
   
1-309   Ordinances; effective date
   
1-310   Ordinances; amendments and revisions
   
1-311   Emergency ordinances
§ 1-301 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers, the village shall have the power to make
all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and resolutions, not inconsistent
with the laws of the state, as may be expedient for maintaining the peace, good
government and welfare of the village and its trade and commerce and to enforce
all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties for the breach thereof, not
exceeding $500 for any one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 1-302 ORDINANCES; STYLE.
   The style of all village ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of Clearwater, Nebraska: ....”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 1-303 ORDINANCES; TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in the
title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 1-304 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, ordinances
shall be introduced by members of the Board of Trustees in one of the following
ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, read
aloud the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the Village
Clerk for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may present the
proposed ordinance to the Clerk, who, in the presence and hearing of a majority
of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, shall read aloud the substance
of the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 1-305 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   (A)   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures,
resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in
§ 1-304 for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution
or motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary
law adopted for the guidance of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   A majority vote shall be required to pass any resolution or motion.
The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by roll call vote.
 § 1-306 PASSAGE.
   Ordinances, resolutions or orders for the appropriation of money shall
require for their adoption a concurrence of the majority of the Village Board.
Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by the title on three
different days unless three-fourths of the Board votes to suspend this
requirement, except that such requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory. In case such requirement is
suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved for final
passage. Three-fourths of the Board may require any ordinance to be read in
full before final passage under either process.
(Ord. 95-3, passed 3-13-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 1-307 VOTES.
   (A)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the Village Board, “yeas” and
“nays” shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or
any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the Board shall be required.
   (B)   All appointments of the officers by the Village Board shall be made
viva voce. The concurrence of a like majority shall be required and the names
of those and for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment,
shall be recorded. The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be
satisfied by the village if it utilizes an electronic voting device which
allows the “yeas” and “nays” of each member of the Board to be readily seen by
the public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
§ 1-308 ORDINANCES; PUBLICATION OR POSTING; CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Publication or posting. All ordinances of a general nature shall,
before they take effect, be published within 15 days after they are passed:
      (1)   In a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village
or, if no paper is published in the village, by posting a written or printed
copy in each of three public places in the village; or
      (2)   In book, pamphlet or electronic form.
   (B)   Certificate of publication or posting. The passage, approval and
publication or posting of an ordinance shall be sufficiently proved by a
certificate under the seal of the village from the Village Clerk showing that
the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and in what paper the ordinance
was published, or when and by whom and where the ordinance was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
   Chairperson of Board of Trustees; duties, see Neb. RS 17-210
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
 § 1-309 ORDINANCES; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   No ordinance for the government of the village which has been adopted
without submission to the voters shall go into effect until 15 days after the
passage of such ordinance except as provided in Neb. RS 16-405 and 17-613.
   (B)   All ordinances adopted by the voters of the village after submission
to them by either initiative or referendum petition shall become immediately
effective thereafter.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
§ 1-310 ORDINANCES; AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the village and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the village, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 1-311 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other impending
danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring its
immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation of
the Chairperson and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the village. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the Board of Trustees, and be entered of
record on the Village Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
ARTICLE 4: APPOINTED OFFICIALS
Section
   
1-401   Appointment; general authority
   
1-402   Merger of offices
   
1-403   Clerk-Treasurer position created
   
1-404   Village Clerk
   
1-405   Village Treasurer
   
1-406   Village Attorney
   
1-407   Law enforcement; contract with County Sheriff
   
1-408   Police Chief
   
1-409   Police Department; duties
   
1-410   Fire Chief
   
1-411   Special Engineer
   
1-412   Utilities Superintendent
   
1-413   Utilities Superintendent; park
   
1-414   Utilities Superintendent; streets
   
1-415   Building Inspector
§ 1-401 APPOINTMENT; GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   The Village Board may appoint a Village Clerk, Treasurer, Attorney, Street
Commissioner, Police Chief and other such officers as shall be required by
ordinance or otherwise required by law. It shall also appoint a Board of Health
as provided in Chapter 2, Article 2. All such appointees, except regular police
officers, shall hold office for one year unless sooner removed by the
Chairperson of the Village Board by and with the advice and consent of the
remainder of the Board. If the village has a Water Commissioner, he or she may
at any time be removed from office by a two-thirds vote of the Board for
sufficient cause.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-208 and 17-541
§ 1-402 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The Village Board may by ordinance combine and merge any elective or
appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of any such
offices or employments, except Trustee, with any other elective or appointive
office or employment so that one or more of such offices or employments or any
combination of duties of any such offices or employments may be held by the
same officer or employee at the same time. However, Trustees may perform, and
upon Board approval receive compensation for, seasonal or emergency work
subject to Neb. RS 49-14,103.01 through 49-14,103.06. The offices or
employments so merged and combined shall always be construed to be separate and
the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a consolidation of
official duties only. The salary or compensation of the officer or employee
holding the merged and combined offices or employments or offices and
employments shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for
the salary or compensation of the office, offices, employment or employments so
merged and combined. For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and
ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Ord. 91-2, passed 1-14-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-209.02 and 49-14,103.01 through 49-
14,103.06
§ 1-403 CLERK-TREASURER POSITION CREATED.
   (A)   The appointive offices of Village Clerk and Village Treasurer are
hereby combined and merged in accordance with the authority granted to the
Village Board by § 1-402. The offices so merged and combined shall always be
construed to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be
limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (B)   The salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in
excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so
combined.
§ 1-404 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances
and shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees.
After the period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant
to the Records Management Act, Neb. RS 84-1201 et seq., the Clerk may transfer
the journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees to the State Archives
of the State Historical Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall
also perform such other duties as may be required by the ordinances of the
village. If the Clerk is acting as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply
with the requirements of § 1-405(A)(3).
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the Board of Trustees within 30 days after any meeting
of the Board. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is
published in the village, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
village is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general
funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy village public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act, Neb. RS 84-1201 et seq. This shall not apply to the minutes of
the Clerk and the permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record
classified as permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers or other
documents of the village kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken
therefrom, except by such officers of the village as may be entitled to the use
of the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except
pursuant to Neb. RS 84-712(2).
      (2)   He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office,
including a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a
proper index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all
petitions under which the Board of Trustees shall order public work to be done
at the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to
all resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse
the date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto
and other documents incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference.
      (3)   He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign and attest all warrants
ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and resolutions under
his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees or committees.
With the seal of the village, he or she shall duly attest the Chairperson’s
signature to all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be attested to when
ordered to do so by the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the village ordinances. He or
she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some
other village officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall
keep a register of all licenses granted in the village and the purposes for
which they have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the Board
of Trustees or under the ordinances of the village. To each of the file copies
of the notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to the creation of paving
districts and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the village, and in the event that the claim is disallowed,
in part or in whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall
then prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all
proper cases.
§ 1-405 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money
belonging to the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall
give every person paying money into the Treasury a receipt for such money,
specifying the date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also
file copies of such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer
shall, at the end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an
account to the Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the Treasury
at the date of such account and the balance of money in the Treasury. He or she
shall also accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her,
which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed
with his or her account in the Village Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails
to render his or her account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a
later date established by the Board of Trustees, the Chairperson, with the
advice and consent of the Board, may use this failure as cause to remove the
Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the village, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the
bonds were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid or
canceled. He or she shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year
and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the village fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the village for the preceding fiscal year. The
statement shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or
17-606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be
charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants and other evidences of debt against the village, whenever
paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the
Village Treasurer,” with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or
she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the
several owners and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
 § 1-406 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions
necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the village or
that may be ordered by the Board. When requested, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Board and give them his or her opinion upon any matters
submitted to him or her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or
she shall draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts,
franchises and other instruments as may be required, and he or she shall
perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or
ordinance. The Board shall have the right to pay the Village Attorney
compensation for legal services performed by him or her for it on such terms as
the Board and Attorney may agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and
to pay for such legal assistance, out of the funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The Village Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by
the Board of Trustees, the ordinance records and advise and assist the Village
Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be
taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and
subsisting local law insofar as its passage and approval are concerned.
§ 1-407 LAW ENFORCEMENT; CONTRACT WITH COUNTY SHERIFF.
   (A)   The village may enter into a contract with the County Board for police
and law enforcement services to be provided by the County Sheriff’s Office.
Whenever any such contract has been entered into, the Sheriff or his or her
deputy shall, in addition to his or her other powers and duties, have all the
powers and duties of the Village Police Chief within and for the village. A
minimum of one copy of such contract shall be on file at the office of the
Village Clerk and available for public inspection during office hours. When
appointed as the chief law enforcement officer, the County Sheriff shall direct
the police work of the village and shall be responsible for the maintenance of
law and order; file the necessary complaints in cases arising out of violations
of village ordinances; and make all necessary reports required by the village
ordinances or state laws.
   (B)   It shall be the policy of the governing body of the village to
prohibit the use of excessive force by law enforcement agencies within its
jurisdiction against any individual(s) engaged in nonviolent civil rights
demonstrations.
(Res. 2023-2, passed 1-10-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-213
§ 1-408 POLICE CHIEF.
   The County Sheriff shall direct the police work of the village, shall be
responsible for the enforcement of ordinances and shall make all necessary
reports required by village ordinances and state laws. He or she may be
appointed to serve on the Board of Health as secretary and quarantine officer
and act as health inspector except in the event the village appoints another
person.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-208, 17-213 and 17-604
§ 1-409 POLICE DEPARTMENT; DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such further
number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Village Board. The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the
Chairperson, have control and management of all matters relating to the Police
Department, its officers and members, and shall have the custody and control of
all property and books belonging to the Department. The Police Department shall
execute and enforce all laws and also the orders of the Chairperson. It shall
be the duty of the Department to protect the rights of persons and property.
The Department shall take notice of all nuisances, impediments, obstructions
and defects in the streets, avenues, alleys, business places and residences of
the village. The Department shall execute or cause to be executed the processes
issued and shall cause all persons arrested to be brought before the proper
court for trial as speedily as possible. The Chief of Police and all regular
and special police officers shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of
the village and shall see that the same are strictly enforced, making sworn
complaints against any person or persons for violation of the same.
§ 1-410 FIRE CHIEF.
   The duties of the Fire Chief shall be as provided in §
8-104.
§ 1-411 SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The Village Board may employ a special engineer to make any particular
estimate, survey or other work. He or she shall, when directed by the Board,
accurately make all plats, sections, profiles and maps as may be necessary and
make estimates of the costs of labor and material which may be done or
furnished by contract with the village. The special engineer shall make all
surveys, estimates and calculations necessary for the establishment of grades,
bridges, building of culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power
plant, public heating system, curbing and gutters and the improvement of
streets and erection and repair of buildings. He or she shall perform such
other duties as the Village Board may require and shall make a record of the
minutes of his or her surveys and all other work done for the village. All
records of the special engineer shall be public records which shall belong to
the village and shall be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-568, 17-568.01, 17-919 and 18-3301
§ 1-412 UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   As soon as a system of waterworks or mains or portion or extension of
any system of waterworks or water supply has been established in the village,
the Chairperson of the Village Board shall nominate and, by and with the advice
and consent of the Board members, shall appoint any competent person who shall
be known as the Water Commissioner and whose term of office shall be for one
fiscal year or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. Annually,
at the first regular meeting of the Board in December, the Water Commissioner
shall be appointed as provided in this section. He or she may at any time, for
sufficient cause, be removed by a two-thirds vote of the Village Board. Any
vacancy occurring in the office of Water Commissioner by death, resignation,
removal from office or removal from the village may be filled in the manner
provided in this section for the appointment of such Commissioner.
   (B)   (1)   The Water Commissioner shall, before entering upon the discharge
of his or her duties, execute a bond or provide evidence of equivalent
insurance to the village in a sum to be fixed by the Village Board, not less
than $5,000, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his or her duties. Such
bond shall be signed by two or more good and sufficient sureties, to be
approved by the Board or executed by a corporate surety.
       (2)   The Water Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the Board,
shall have the general management and control of the system of waterworks or
mains or portion or extension of any system of waterworks or water supply in
the village.
   (C)   If the village has no Board of Public Works and has other public
utilities than its waterworks system, the Village Board shall by ordinance
designate the Water Commissioner as Public Works Commissioner, also called
Utilities Superintendent, with authority to manage not only the system of
waterworks but also other public utilities, and all of the provisions of this
section applying to the Water Commissioner shall apply to the Public Works
Commissioner. The Utilities Superintendent, subject to the supervision of the
Village Board, shall have the general management and control of the following
village utilities and shall have such other duties as prescribed by the Board.
      (1)   Water Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall have general
supervision and control over the village water system and shall be primarily
responsible for its economic operation and prudent management. Included in said
water system shall be the water plant, the pump house, all machinery and
appliances used in connection with producing and distributing water to
inhabitants of the village. The Superintendent shall have the general control
and supervisory authority over all employees of the water system which the
Village Board may from time to time hire to operate and maintain said system.
He or she shall make a detailed report to the Board at least once every six
months of the condition of said water system, of all mains, pipes, hydrants,
reservoirs and machinery and such improvements, repairs and extensions thereof
as he or she may think proper. The report shall show the amount of receipts and
expenditures on account thereof for the preceding six months. No money shall be
expended for improvements, repairs or extensions of said waterworks system
except upon the recommendation of the Superintendent.
      (2)   Sewer Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
immediate control and supervision over all the employees and property that make
up the village sewer system. He or she shall, at least every six months, make a
detailed report to the Village Board on the condition of the sewer system and
shall direct its attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions
and additional employees as he or she may believe are needed, along with an
estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall inspect and supervise all repairs
made to said system.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-541 and 17-543
§ 1-413 UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT; PARK.
   The Utilities Superintendent shall have the immediate control and
supervision of the village park and recreation facilities, subject to the
general control and directives of the Village Board. He or she shall, at least
every six months, make a detailed report to the Board on the condition of the
park and recreation facilities and shall direct its attention to such
improvements, repair, extensions, additions and additional employees as he or
she may believe are needed, along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or
she shall have such other duties as the Board may delegate to him or her.
§ 1-414 UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT; STREETS.
   In addition to the above utilities, the Utilities Superintendent shall,
subject to the orders and directives of the Village Board, have general charge,
direction and control of all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts and
bridges of the village. It shall be his or her responsibility to see that
gutters and drains therein function properly and that the same are kept in good
repair. At the request of the Board, he or she shall make a detailed report on
the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys and bridges of the
village and shall direct its attention to such improvements, repairs,
extensions, additions and additional employees as he or she may believe are
needed to maintain a satisfactory street system in the village, along with an
estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall perform such other duties as the
Board may require.
(Neb. RS 17-214)
§ 1-415 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The duties of the Building Inspector shall be as provided in § 9-101.
ARTICLE 5: FISCAL MANAGEMENT
Section
   
1-501   Fiscal year
   
1-502   Public funds defined
   
1-503   Deposit of funds
   
1-504   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
1-505   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
1-506   Credit cards; authority to accept
   
1-507   Authority to contract with collection agency
   
1-508   Claims and accounts payable
   
1-509   Warrants
   
1-510   Expenditures
   
1-511   Bond issues
   
1-512   Sinking funds
   
1-513   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
1-514   Special assessment fund
   
1-515   Contracts; appropriation
   
1-516   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
1-517   Annual audit; financial statements
   
1-518   General Fund
   
1-519   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
1-520   Appropriation bill
   
1-521   Budget procedures
   
1-522   Proposed budget statement
   
1-523   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of amount
received from taxation
   
1-524   Adopted budget; filing, certification of tax
   
1-525   Budget revision
   
1-526   Emergency; transfer of funds; hearing
   
1-527   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
   
1-528   Property tax levy and request; authority to set
   
1-529   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
1-530   All-purpose levy; allocation; abandonment; extraordinary levy
   
1-531   Inadequate valuation
   
1-532   General property tax
   
1-533   Motor vehicle tax
   
1-534   Sales tax
§ 1-501 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village and any public utility of the village
commences on October 1 and extends through the following September 30 except as
provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
§ 1-502 PUBLIC FUNDS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the village has a lottery established under
the State County and City Lottery Act, Neb. RS 9-601 et seq., only those net
proceeds which are actually received by the village from a licensed lottery
operator shall be considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include
amounts awarded as prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
§ 1-503 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall deposit and at all times keep on
deposit for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received or held by him or her as Village Treasurer. These
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
Board of Trustees for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as a
member of the Board of Trustees or as any other officer of the village shall
not disqualify the bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying
mutual financial institution from acting as a depository for the village funds.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, Neb. RS 77-2386 et seq., to secure the payment of all such
deposits and accretions. The Board of Trustees shall approve this bond or
giving of security. The Village Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of
any money sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository so
designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   (1)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock
financial institutions.
      (2)   Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
§ 1-504 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the Village Treasurer holds funds of the village in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the Treasurer to
invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered warrants of the
village, in bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively by any of
the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks or the 13 banks for
cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration, or in
interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United States. The interest on
such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund out of which the bonds or
warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the village from public utilities and the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money
borrowed, and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there
be any surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for payment of
public utility bonds or for improvement of the works, or into the General Fund
as the Board may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Board so
directs, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United
States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water or gas funds, or the
funds arising from the sale of electric light, water or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water or
gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments may be transferred to the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   (1)   Whenever the village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the Board of Trustees may invest any such surplus in excess of
current needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in
time deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the State Capital Expansion Act, Neb. RS 72-
1269, and the State Funds Investment Act, Neb. RS 72-1237, and as provided in
the authorized investment guidelines of the State Investment Council in effect
on the date the investment is made. The State Investment Officer shall, upon
request, furnish a copy of current authorized investment guidelines of the
State Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (D)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital or to expand the investment authority of a local
government investment pool under the Public Entities Pooled Investment Act,
being Neb. RS 77-23,109 et seq.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
§ 1-505 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The Village Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Board of Trustees
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. RS 16-714 through 16-716 as of the time the deposit is
made. Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 1-506 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   (1)   If authorized by the Board of Trustees, any village official may
accept credit cards, charge cards or debit cards, whether presented in person
or electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
      (2)   A County Treasurer, county official or political subdivision
official shall not accept a central bank digital currency as a method of cash
payment of any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine,
license, fee or assessment of whatever kind or nature.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the village
official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the Board of Trustees may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards
or debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic
funds transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for
services to reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The village official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company or third-party merchant bank providing that service.   
   (E)   (1)   The types of credit cards, charge cards or debit cards accepted
and the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer
and the Director of Administrative Services, with the advice of a committee
convened by the State Treasurer and the Director. The committee shall consist
of the State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the Director and representatives
from counties, villages and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate.
The committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of such
services. The State Treasurer and the Director shall contract with one or more
credit card, charge card or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks
for services on behalf of the state and those counties, villages and political
subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for such
services. The State Treasurer and the Director shall consider, for the purposes
of this section, any negotiated discount or processing or transaction fee
imposed by a credit card, charge card or debit card company or third-party
merchant bank, as an administrative expense.
      (2)   If the Board of Trustees chooses not to participate in the state
contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge cards and debit cards and
may negotiate and contract independently or collectively as a governmental
entity with one or more financial institutions, vending service companies,
credit card, charge card or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks
for the provision of these services.
   (F)   Subject to the direction of the Board of Trustees, a village official
authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized, but not required, to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the village, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the
surcharge or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card
companies or third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division
(E) above. The surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed
by the operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card
involved or when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card
company involved. When a person elects to make a payment to the village by
credit card or charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed,
the payment of the surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by
that person and shall be in no case refundable. If a payment is made
electronically by credit card, charge card, debit card or electronic funds
transfer as part of a system for providing or retrieving information
electronically, the village official shall be authorized, but not required, to
impose an additional surcharge or convenience fee upon the person making a
payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CENTRAL BANK DIGITAL CURRENCY. A digital medium of exchange, token or
monetary unit of account issued by the United States Federal Reserve System or
any analogous federal agency that is made directly available to the consumer by
such federal entities. CENTRAL BANK DIGITAL CURRENCY includes a digital medium
of exchange, token or monetary unit of account so issued that is processed or
validated directly by such federal entities.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by nonpaper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire System.
(Neb. RS 13-609)
§ 1-507 AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The village may contract to retain a collection agency licensed
pursuant to the Collection Agency Act, Neb. RS 45-601 et seq., within or
without this state, for the purpose of collecting public debts owed by any
person to the village.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) above may be assigned to a
collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid.
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, DEBT shall include all delinquent
fees or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case
of debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
§ 1-508 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the village shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the
Village Clerk.
      (3)   The Village Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the village in any action
brought against it for any claim, or for any claim allowed in part, which has
not been presented to the Board of Trustees to be audited unless the recovery
is for a greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   (1)   Upon the allowance of claims by the Board of Trustees, the order
for their payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of
which they are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement and no
order or warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the
purpose for which it is drawn unless there is sufficient money in the Treasury
at the credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided, that if there
exists at the time such warrant is drawn obligated funds from the federal
government or the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for
the general purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn
in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to
the additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds.
      (2)   No claim shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for
the payment thereof may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 1-509 WARRANTS.
   (A)   All warrants drawn upon the Village Treasurer must be signed by the
Chairperson and countersigned by the Village Clerk, stating the particular fund
to which the same is chargeable, the person to whom payable and for what
particular object.
   (B)   No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so drawn.
Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement
for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended of such
fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 1-510 EXPENDITURES.
   The Board of Trustees shall have no power to appropriate, issue or draw any
order or warrant on the Village Treasurer for money unless the same has been
appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of which
such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the provisions of
§
1-507, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
§ 1-511 BOND ISSUES.
   The Board of Trustees may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 1-512 SINKING FUNDS.
   (A)   The village is hereby empowered to receive money or property by
donation, bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more
of the public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the
provisions of this section, as stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or
property so donated shall vest in the Board of Trustees, or in its successors
in office, who shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
sinking fund or funds. Provided, in the event of a donation of real estate, the
Board of Trustees may manage the real estate as in the case of real estate
donated to the village for village library purposes under the provisions of
Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, subject to all the limitations set forth in
this section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on
each $100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the village for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the village, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment or
repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
village libraries; village auditoriums or community houses for social or
recreational purposes; village halls; village public libraries, auditoriums or
community houses in a single building; village swimming pools; village jails;
village fire stations, together with firefighting equipment or apparatus;
village parks; village cemeteries; village medical buildings, together with
furnishings and equipment; or village hospitals. The village shall not be
authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as provided in this
division (B) if, having bonded indebtedness, such village has been in default
in the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten
years prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for the
submission of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as required
in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned village improvements mentioned in division
(B) above by the village, the Board of Trustees shall declare its purpose by
resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the village at the next
general village election the proposition to provide the village with the
specific village improvement planned under this section. The resolution of
submission shall, among other things, set forth a clear description of the
improvement planned, the estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the
amount of annual levy over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years,
required to provide such cost, and the specific name or designation for the
sinking fund sought to be established to carry out the planned improvement,
together with a statement of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at
the election. Notice of the submission of the proposition, together with a copy
of the official ballot containing the same, shall be published in its entirety
three successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village or, if no legal newspaper is in or of
general circulation in the village, in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the county in which the village is located. No such sinking fund
shall be established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more
of the legal votes of the village cast for or against the proposition. If less
than a majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund,
the planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied
therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in
connection therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be
repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner
prescribed in this division, the Board of Trustees and its successors in office
shall proceed to do all things authorized under such resolution of submission,
but never inconsistent with this section. The election provided for under this
section shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101
et seq.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the Village Treasurer, by donation or by tax
levy as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Treasurer, with the written approval of the Board of Trustees,
in the manner provided in Neb. RS 17-540 and 17-608. Whenever investments of
such sinking fund or funds are made, as aforesaid, the nature and character of
the same shall be reported to the Board of Trustees and the investment report
shall be made a matter of record by the Village Clerk in the proceedings of the
Village Board. The sinking fund, or sinking funds, accumulated under the
provisions of this section shall constitute a special fund, or funds, for the
purpose or purposes for which the same was authorized and shall not be used for
any other purpose unless authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the
village voting at a general election favoring such change in the use of the
sinking fund or sinking funds; provided, that the question of the change in the
use of the sinking fund or sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be
resubmitted in substance for a period of one year from and after the date of
such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 1-513 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The village shall have the authority to collect the special
assessments which it levies and to perform all other necessary functions
related thereto, including foreclosure.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees of any village collecting its own special
assessments shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be
mailed or otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against
whom those special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or
other party responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to
receive the notice shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the
special assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A village collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
Statutory reference:
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 1-514 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the Village
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the village for money expended for any
such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 1-515 CONTRACTS; APPROPRIATION.
   No contract shall be hereafter made by the Board of Trustees, or any
committee or member thereof, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the
officers or departments of the village, whether the object of the expenditures
shall have been ordered by the Board of Trustees or not, unless an
appropriation shall have been previously made concerning such expense, except
as otherwise expressly provided in §
1-509.
(Neb. RS 17-709)
§ 1-516 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace or add to the electric distribution,
transmission or generation system of the village, no contract for enlargement
or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating
systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when the
cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing
over $30,000 shall be made unless it is first approved by the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the Board of Trustees
makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating systems,
bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Village Engineer and submitted to the Board of Trustees.
In advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the Board
of Trustees may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A village electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   Thirty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Sixty thousand dollars or less and the village electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   Ninety thousand dollars or less and the village electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   One hundred twenty thousand dollars or less and the village
electric utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of
$10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the village. In case of a public
emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive
windstorms, floods, snow, war or an exigency or pressing necessity or
unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths vote of the Board
of Trustees and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the Board
of Trustees receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received
by the Board of Trustees contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the
Board of Trustees may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the Board of Trustees, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the village, the Board of Trustees may authorize the
manufacture and assemblage of those materials and may thereafter approve the
estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any village bidding procedure may be waived by the Board of Trustees:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in the State Procurement Act,
Neb. RS 73-801 through 73-819;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to the provisions of Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a village which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 1-517 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
village.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs or
financial condition of the village and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the village, or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
village fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the village’s
accounts to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the village for that preceding fiscal
year. The audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report
made by the accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of
the fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a
written resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees may
request a waiver of the audit requirement subject to the requirements of Neb.
RS 84-304.
         (b)   If the village is required to conduct an audit under Neb. RS 84-
304 and owns or operates any type of public utility or other enterprise which
substantially generates its own revenue, the Board of Trustees shall have that
phase of the village’s affairs reported separately from the other functions of
the village. The result of that audit shall appear separately in the annual
audit report made by the accountant to the village, and the audit shall be on a
cash or accrual basis at the discretion of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the village. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the
Village Clerk, and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
The annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the Village Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall provide and file with the Village Clerk,
not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the
village’s actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal
year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, see Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 1-518 GENERAL FUND.
   If the village has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 1-519 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year and until the adoption
of the budget by the Village Board in September, the Board may expend any
balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the village. Except as
provided in division (B) below, such expenditures shall not exceed an amount
equivalent to the total amount expended under the last budget in the equivalent
period of the prior budget year. Such expenditures shall be charged against the
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted.
   (B)   (1)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be
exceeded upon the express finding of the Village Board that expenditures beyond
the amount authorized are necessary to enable the village to meet its statutory
duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in
excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the Board in open
public session.
      (2)   Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged against
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize
expenditures by the village in excess of that authorized by any other statutory
provision.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 3-13-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-509.01 and 13-509.02
§ 1-520 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the State
Budget Act, Neb. RS 13-501 et seq., to be termed “The Annual Appropriation
Bill,” in which the Board may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed
necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
§ 1-521 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 1-522 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall annually or biennially prepare a
proposed budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of
Public Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the
public prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
1-522.
      (2)   A proposed budget statement shall contain the following
information, except as provided by state law:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period,
the revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial periods, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (d)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be
raised from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
            1.   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal voters
of the political subdivision; and
            2.   For all other purposes.
         (e)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including
each proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget
statement prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS
18-2801 et seq., and a grand total of all funds maintained by the Board of
Trustees; and
         (f)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in
the budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement, which is approved by the Board of Trustees as provided in the
Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the village as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer
for the village and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget
statement.
   (C)   The village shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   (1)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for
the ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period, and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section.
      (2)   The amount to be raised from the taxation of personal and real
property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue from other sources,
including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered balances shall equal the
estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required cash reserve, for the
ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
§ 1-523 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT
RECEIVED FROM TAXATION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together
with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at least
four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village’s jurisdiction. For the purposes of such notice,
the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the day of
hearing. When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget
summary may be posted at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters. At such
hearing, the governing body shall make at least three copies of the proposed
budget statement available to the public and shall make a presentation
outlining key provisions of the proposed budget statement, including, but not
limited to, a comparison with the prior year’s budget. Any member of the public
desiring to speak on the proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address
the governing body at the hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of
time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal
voters of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by the Board of Trustees, the budget shall be filed with
the Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting and noncompliance with the State Budget Act,
Neb. RS 13-501 et seq., or Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522. If the Auditor
detects such errors, he or she shall immediately notify the Board of such
errors. The Board shall correct any such error as provided in § 1-524. Warrants
for the payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted under this
section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance for which
the Auditor has notified the Board.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
§ 1-524 ADOPTED BUDGET; FILING, CERTIFICATION OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the Board of Trustees shall file with
and certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each
year or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period, and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, if applicable, together with the
amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the
legal voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   (1)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10%
or more at the time of the filing and certification required under this
section, the Board of Trustees, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial
period and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, ANTICIPATED LITIGATION shall be
limited to the anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who or which
filed a similar action for the preceding year or biennial period which is still
pending.
      (3)   Except for such allowances, the Board of Trustees shall not certify
an amount of tax more than 1% greater or lesser than the amount determined
under §
1-521.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall use the certified taxable values as
provided by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year
in setting or certifying the levy. The Board of Trustees may designate one of
its members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the Board by this
section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
§ 1-525 BUDGET REVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the Board of Trustees may
propose to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a
public hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it
becomes apparent to the Board of Trustees that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522 such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
         (c)   The Board of Trustees has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the State
Budget Act, Neb. RS 13-501 et seq.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   (1)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published
at least four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction. For the purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing.
      (2)   This published notice shall set forth:
         (a)   The time and place of the hearing;
         (b)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required
and for what purpose;
         (c)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if budget requirements are to be increased, reasons why the
previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
         (d)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget
previously published; and
         (e)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing, any taxpayer may appeal or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the Board of Trustees, the Board
shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the Board
of Trustees is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted. The Board of Trustees may then issue warrants in
payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These
warrants shall be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during
the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
1-522, the Board of Trustees may, or within 30 days after notification of an
error by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Board shall, correct an adopted
budget which contains a clerical, mathematical or accounting error which does
not affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction. After correction, the Board of Trustees shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
Board of Trustees is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The Board
of Trustees may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by
the budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511)
§ 1-526 EMERGENCY; TRANSFER OF FUNDS; HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year or biennial period it becomes
apparent to the Village Board that due to unforeseen emergencies there is
temporarily insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of
the adopted budget of expenditures for that fund, the Board may by a majority
vote, unless otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds
to such fund. No expenditure during any fiscal year or biennial period shall be
made in excess of the amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except
as authorized in Neb. RS 13-511. Any officer or officers of any governing body
who obligates funds contrary to the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of a Class V misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   If, as the result of unforeseen circumstances, the revenue of
the current fiscal year shall be insufficient, the Village Board may propose to
supplement the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing at which time any taxpayer may appear, or file a written statement
protesting the application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings. Notice of a place and time for said hearing shall be
published at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village.
      (2)   The published notice shall set forth the time and place of the
proposed hearing, the amount of additional money required, the purpose of the
required money, a statement setting forth the reasons why the adopted budget of
expenditures cannot be reduced to meet the need for additional money and a copy
of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously published.
   (C)   Upon the conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed supplemental
budget and approval by the Village Board, the Board shall file with the County
Clerk and the State Auditor a copy of the supplemental budget and shall certify
the amount of additional tax to be levied. The Board may then issue warrants in
payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted supplemental budget. Said
warrants shall be referred to as “registered warrants” and shall be repaid
during the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-510 and 13-511
§ 1-527 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection, disposal
or handling utility or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the village.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the village’s General Fund in excess
of the amount paid by the village to the proprietary function for actual
service or services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the village’s General Fund shall have the same fiscal
year as the village.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the Village Clerk containing the following
information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
Village Clerk, the Board of Trustees shall conduct a public hearing on the
statement. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the
proposed proprietary budget statement and notice that the full proposed
proprietary budget statement is available for public review with the Village
Clerk during normal business hours shall be published one time at least five
days prior to the hearing in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation
within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the
Board’s jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the Village
Clerk within 20 days after its adoption and published in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction, or by mailing to
each resident within the Board’s jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   (1)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the Board of Trustees shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the Village Clerk and published in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction, or by mailing to each
resident within the Board’s jurisdiction.
      (2)   If the difference between the adopted proprietary budget for the
previous fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenues for that fiscal
year is greater than 10%, the proprietary function reconciliation statement
shall only be adopted following a public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the village
budget statement created pursuant to the State Budget Act, Neb. RS 13-501 et
seq., the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq., need not
be followed for that proprietary function. Any income from a proprietary
function which is transferred to the General Fund of the village shall be shown
as a source of revenue in the village budget statement created pursuant to the
State Budget Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
§ 1-528 PROPERTY TAX LEVY AND REQUEST; AUTHORITY TO SET.
   (A)   The property tax request for the prior year shall be the property tax
request for the current year for purposes of the levy set by the County Board
of Equalization in Neb. RS 77-1601 unless the Village Board passes by majority
vote a resolution or ordinance setting the tax request at a different amount.
Such resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after a special public
hearing called for such purpose is held and after notice is published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the area of the village at least five days
prior to the hearing.
   (B)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request:
      (2)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation; and
      (3)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request.
   (C)   Any resolution setting a tax request under this section shall be
certified and forwarded to the County Clerk prior to October 14 of the year for
which the tax request is to apply.
   (D)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 77-1601 and 77-1632
§ 1-529 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the village for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A) except as provided in divisions (C) and (D) below. The
village may levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of
property subject to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable
valuation to provide financing for the village’s share of revenue required
under an agreement or agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal
Cooperation Act, being Neb. RS 13-801 et seq. The maximum levy shall include
amounts levied to pay for sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201,
museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse
or home health agency pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial or
monument pursuant to Neb. RS 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments obtained
against the village which require or obligate the village to pay such judgment,
to the extent such judgment is not paid by liability insurance coverage of the
village, for preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior to July 1,
1998, and for bonded indebtedness approved according to law and secured by a
levy on property are not included in the levy limits established by this
division (A). The limitations on tax levies provided in this division (A) are
to include all other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding
other provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this division (A)
are those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of
the limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under
Neb. RS 77-1606 unless approved under division (C) or (D) below.
   (B)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to municipal
levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for
levy allocation to the Village Board. The preliminary request of the political
subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of
members present of the political subdivision’s governing body. The failure of a
political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude such
political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to
exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
   (C)   The Village Board shall adopt a resolution by a majority vote of
members present which determines a final allocation of levy authority to its
political subdivisions and forward a copy of such resolution to the Chairperson
of the governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
   (D)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1 except by
agreement between both the Village Board and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
   (E)   The village may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above by an
amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the first to
exceed the limits.
   (F)   The Village Board may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters by passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a vote of at
least two-thirds of the Board members and delivering a copy of the resolution
to the Election Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the
village or upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village. The petition shall be in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628
through 32-631.
   (G)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk no later than 30 days
prior to the date of the election, and the time of publication and providing a
copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later
than 20 days prior to the election.
   (H)   The County Clerk shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as
called for in the resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after
receipt of the resolution or petition. The election shall be held pursuant to
the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
   (I)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (I) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the Village Board to terminate
the authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal
year following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit or as
provided in division (H) above, whichever is earliest.
   (J)   The Village Board may pass no more than one resolution calling for an
election pursuant to this division (J) during any one calendar year. There
shall be no limit on the number of elections held pursuant to this division (J)
which are initiated by petition. The ballot question may include any terms and
conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
    (K)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in favor
of such tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the limits in
division (A) above, but such tax shall not exceed the amount stated in the
ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to such tax, the Village Board shall not impose such tax.
   (L)   In lieu of the election procedures in division (C) above, the village
may approve a levy in excess of the limits in division (A) above for a period
of one year at a meeting of the residents of the village, called after notice
is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village at least 20
days prior to the meeting. At least 10% of the registered voters residing in
the village shall constitute a quorum for purposes of taking action to exceed
the limits. If a majority of the registered voters present at the meeting vote
in favor of exceeding the limits, a copy of the record of that action shall be
forwarded to the County Board prior to October 10 and said Board shall
authorize a levy as approved by the residents for the year. If a majority of
the registered voters present at the meeting vote against exceeding the limits
or final allocation, the limit or allocation shall not be exceeded and the
village shall have no power to call for an election under division (C) above.
   (M)   The village may rescind or modify a previously approved excess levy
authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters voting on
the issue in a primary, general or special election at which the issue is
placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must be
approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
   (N)   The Village Board may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters by passing a resolution calling for the rescission or modification by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the village and delivering a copy
of the resolution to the County Clerk or upon request of a petition by the
Election Commissioner requesting an election signed by at least 5% of the
registered voters residing in the village.
   (O)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the duration
of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that either
such excess levy authority will be rescinded or such excess levy authority will
be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of such modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have
a duration greater than five years. The County Clerk shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 30 days after receipt of the resolution or petition, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election. The election shall
be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 77-3442 through 77-3444)
§ 1-530 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT; EXTRAORDINARY LEVY.
   (A)   The Village Board has decided to certify to the County Clerk for
collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by taxation for all
municipal purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for specific
purposes added together. Subject to the limits in Neb. RS 77-3442, the all-
purpose levy shall not exceed the annual levy specified in Neb. RS 19-1309 to
be levied upon the taxable valuation of all taxable property in the village.
   (B)   The amount of the all-purpose levy shall be certified as a single
amount for General Fund purposes. The Village Board shall allocate the amount
raised by the all-purpose levy to the several departments of the village in its
annual budget and appropriation ordinance or in other legal manner as the Board
deems wisest and best.
   (C)   The village shall be bound by its election to follow the all-purpose
levy method during the ensuing fiscal year but may abandon such method in
succeeding fiscal years.
   (D)   Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the village may be made by the village in addition to the all-
purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309 through 19-1312)
§ 1-531 INADEQUATE VALUATION.
   If the valuation of the village has been reduced so that the maximum levy
permitted by this article is inadequate to produce the necessary revenue, said
maximum levy may be exceeded upon presentation to the Village Board of
petitions signed by a majority of the registered voters of the village
requesting such action and specifying the extent to, and the period of time,
not to exceed five years, in which such maximum may be exceeded. No signature
may be withdrawn after the petitions have been filed with the Board. The Board
shall cause such petitions, accompanied by the certificate of the County Clerk
that he or she has examined the petitions and that they have been signed by a
majority of the registered voters of the village, to be filed with the County
Board. After such filing, the Board may exceed the maximum mill levy to the
extent and for the period of time specified in the petitions.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
§ 1-532 GENERAL PROPERTY TAX.
   The Village Board shall cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount
of tax to be levied upon the assessed value of all the taxable property of the
village for the requirements of the adopted budget for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes. The maximum amount of tax which
may be certified and assessed shall not require a tax levy in excess of the
legal maximum as prescribed by state law.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
§ 1-533 MOTOR VEHICLE TAX.
   The Village Board may levy a tax on all motor vehicles owned or used in the
village, which tax shall be paid to the County Treasurer when the registration
fees as provided in Neb. RS 60-329 through 60-339 are paid. Such taxes shall be
credited by the County Treasurer to the road fund of the village. Such funds
shall be used by such village for constructing, resurfacing, maintaining or
improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways or parts thereof for the
amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for such purposes.
(Neb. RS 18-1214)
§ 1-534 SALES TAX.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by the electors of the village, a sales
and use tax shall be imposed on 1.5% of the purchase price upon the same
transactions within the village on which the state is authorized to impose a
tax.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 2-13-2012)
ARTICLE 6: ELECTIONS
Section
   
1-601   Village Board
   
1-602   Election of officers; certification
   
1-603   Elections generally
   
1-604   Joint, general; notice
   
1-605   Special election
   
1-606   Petition candidates
   
1-607   Caucus candidates
   
1-608   Filing fee
   
1-609   Ballots
   
1-610   Exit polls
   
1-611   Certificate of nomination or election
   
1-612   Recall procedure
§ 1-601 VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   Board members shall be elected from the village at large unless the
residents have voted to elect their Board members by wards. Board members shall
be residents and qualified electors. Except as provided in Neb. RS 17-202, the
term of each Trustee shall be four years or until his or her successor is
elected and qualified.
   (B)   If the election of Board members takes place by wards, each nominee
shall be a resident and qualified elector of the ward for which he or she is a
candidate, and only residents of that ward may sign the candidate’s nomination
petitions.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-202, 17-203, 32-532 and 32-554
§ 1-602 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATION.
   All village elections involving the election of officers shall be held in
accordance with the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq., and in
conjunction with the statewide general election. No later than January 5 of
each even-numbered year, the Village Board shall certify to the Secretary of
State or the County Clerk the name of the village, the number of officers to be
elected, the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by
election and length of remaining term and the number of votes to be cast by a
registered voter for each office.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-404(2) and 32-556
§ 1-603 ELECTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   All village issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if village offices or
issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise. All village elections involving the election of
officers shall be held in accordance with the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et
seq., and in conjunction with the statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the village holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. Any other election held by the village
shall be held as provided in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the
charter, code or bylaws of the village.
   (C)   The village shall furnish to the Secretary of State and Election
Commissioner or County Clerk any maps and additional information which the
Secretary of State and Election Commissioner or County Clerk may require in the
proper performance of their duties in the conduct of elections and the
certification of results.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 1-604 JOINT, GENERAL; NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all village elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 1-605 SPECIAL ELECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the village shall be
certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk on
or before the eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election may be
held by mail as provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special
election under this section shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village
may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a
statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the
general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the Village Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or
posting of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other
than the notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue
ballots for early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue,
including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election
returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots
shall be counted and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the
other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County
Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the
election results to the Board of Trustees. The canvass by the County Canvassing
Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   (1)   A village that has submitted an issue for a special election
under division (A)(1) above may cancel the special election if the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by
the political subdivision canceling the special election on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall be effective after
such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner, the village shall
be responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the canceled
election. Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in Neb. RS
32-1202 associated with preparing for and conducting a special election.
      (2)   A village that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2)
above may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the
village withdrawing the issue from the ballot not later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (C)   (1)   Any special election under the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et
seq., shall be held on the first Tuesday following the second Monday of the
selected month, except that if such day falls upon a legal holiday, the
election shall be held on the first Tuesday following the first Monday of the
selected month. Except as otherwise specifically provided, no special election
shall be held under the Election Act in March, April, May, June, October,
November or December of an even-numbered year unless it is held in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election.
      (2)   No special election shall be held under the Election Act in August
or September of an even-numbered year except as provided in Neb. RS 32-564 and
except for a special election by a political subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS
13-519 to exceed an applicable allowable growth percentage, or Neb. RS 77-3444
to exceed a property tax levy limit in Neb. RS 77-3442.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
§ 1-606 PETITION CANDIDATES.
   (A)   Petitions for nomination of candidates for Village Board shall conform
to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be
filled and the name and address of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition
shall be filed with the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions for
partisan office shall also indicate the party affiliation of the candidate.
Petitions shall be signed by registered voters residing in the village and
shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as provided for
candidate filing forms in Neb. RS 32-607. Petition signers and petition
circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No
petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a
receipt showing the payment of the filing fee required. Such petitions shall be
filed by September 1 in the year of the general election.
   (B)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the name
of a candidate upon the ballot for a village office for the general election
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Nonpartisan ballot. At least 10% of the total number of registered
voters voting for Governor or President of the United States at the immediately
preceding general election in the village, not to exceed 2,000; and
      (2)   Partisan ballot. At least 20% of the total vote for Governor or
President of the United States at the immediately preceding general election
within the village, not to exceed 2,000.
   (C)   The filing officer shall verify the signatures according to Neb. RS
32-631. Within three days after the signatures on a petition for nomination
have been verified pursuant to such section and the filing officer has
determined that pursuant to Neb. RS 32-618 a sufficient number of registered
voters signed the petitions, the filing officer shall notify the candidate so
nominated by registered or certified mail and the candidate shall, within five
days after the date of receiving such notification, file with such officer his
or her acceptance of the nomination or his or her name will not be printed on
the ballot.
   (D)   A candidate placed on the ballot by petition shall be termed a
candidate by petition. The words “by petition” shall be printed upon the ballot
after the name of each candidate by petition.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
§ 1-607 CAUCUS CANDIDATES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, call a caucus for the purpose
of nomination of candidates for offices to be filled in the village election.
This caucus shall be held at least ten days before the filing deadline for that
election, and the Board of Trustees shall publish notice of the caucus in at
least one legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the county at least
once each week for two consecutive weeks before the caucus.
(Neb. RS 17-601.01)
   (B)   The Chairperson of the caucus at which candidates are nominated shall
notify the Village Clerk in writing of the candidates so nominated not later
than two days following the caucus. The Village Clerk shall then notify the
persons so nominated of their nomination, this notification to take place not
later than five days after the caucus. No candidate so nominated shall have his
or her name placed upon the ballot unless, not more than ten days after the
holding of the caucus, he or she files with the Village Clerk a written
statement accepting the nomination of the caucus and pays the filing fee, if
any, for the office for which he or she was nominated.
(Neb. RS 17-601.02)
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not preclude in any manner any
person from filing for the offices to which this section is applicable, either
by direct filing or by petition.
(Neb. RS 17-601.03)
§ 1-608 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall be
paid to the Village Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for village
office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the General Fund
of the village. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper
payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the Village
Treasurer’s office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, the filing fee shall
be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the year
preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the Board of
Trustees prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the
Board of Trustees, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 1-609 BALLOTS.
   The County Clerk shall provide printed ballots for every general or special
village election and the expense of printing and delivering the ballots and
cards of instruction shall be a charge upon the village.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-805 and 32-1202
§ 1-610 EXIT POLLS.
   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll or any other
interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter preference
within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place, or, if inside the polling
place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
(Neb. RS 32-1525)
 § 1-611 CERTIFICATE OF NOMINATION OR ELECTION.
   (A)   The County Clerk shall, within 40 days after the election, prepare,
sign and deliver a certificate of nomination or a certificate of election to
each person whom the Canvassing Board has declared to have received the highest
vote for each village office. No person shall be issued a certificate of
nomination as a candidate of a political party unless such person has received
a number of votes at least equal to 5% of the total ballots cast at the primary
election by registered voters affiliated with that political party in the
district which the office for which he or she is a candidate serves.
   (B)   A certificate of election prepared by the County Clerk shall be in the
form as nearly as possible to that prescribed in Neb. RS 32-1033 and shall be
signed by the Chairperson of the Village Board under the seal of the village
and countersigned by the Village Clerk.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-558 and 32-1033
§ 1-612 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING OFFICER. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   Any member of the Board of Trustees may be removed from office by
recall pursuant to this section.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing a member of
the Board of Trustees be submitted to the registered voters shall be signed by
registered voters equal in number to at least 45% of the total vote cast for
the person receiving the most votes for that office in the last general
election. The signatures shall be affixed to petition papers and shall be
considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing officer.
Prior to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form
shall be signed and filed with the filing officer by at least one registered
voter. Such voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or
circulators of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and
office of the Trustee sought to be removed, shall include in concise language
of 60 words or less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall
request that the filing officer issue initial petition papers to the principal
circulator for circulation.
      (4)   After receiving the filing form, the filing officer shall notify
the Trustee by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification
cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in
Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving a copy of the filing form at the Trustee’s usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first class mail to the Trustee’s last
known address. If the Trustee chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement
in concise language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such
defense statement shall be submitted to the filing officer within 20 days after
the Trustee receives the copy of the filing form. The filing officer shall
prepare the petition papers within five business days after receipt of the
defense statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the
petition papers within 20 days after being notified by the filing officer that
the petition papers are available. The filing officer shall notify the
principal circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be
gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (5)   The filing officer, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance and the number of papers issued. The filing
officer shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing officer may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (6)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing officer within 30 days after the filing officer
issues the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators
as provided in division (C) above.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
filing officer shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. Any person may remove his or her name
from a petition as provided in Neb. RS 32-632. If the petition is found to be
sufficient, the filing officer shall attach to the petition a certificate
showing the result of such examination. If the requisite number of signatures
has not been gathered, the filing officer shall file the petition in his or her
office without prejudice to the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
officer shall notify the Trustee whose removal is sought and the Board of
Trustees that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the
Trustee shall be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the Trustee’s usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first class mail to the Trustee’s last
known address.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the filing officer pursuant to division (F)(1) above, order
an election. The date of the election shall be the first available date that
complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the village within 90 days after
such notification, the Board shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the Trustee whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the Board may cancel the recall election if the Board notifies the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election; otherwise, the recall election shall be
held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a filing officer is subject to a recall election, the Secretary
of State shall conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) above shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the Trustee named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the Trustee shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the Trustee named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the Trustee is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office, which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section, Neb. RS 32-567 through 32-570, 32-574 and 32-606.01.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the Trustee in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall order a recount of the votes
cast unless the Trustee files a written statement with the filing officer that
he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the Board of Trustees at one time due to the recall of such members,
a special election to fill such vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously
as possible by the Secretary of State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
Candidates for the special election shall file a candidate filing form pursuant
to Neb. RS 32-606.01.
      (5)   No Trustee who is removed at a recall election or who resigns after
the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
Board of Trustees during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
Trustee within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
ARTICLE 7: PENAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-701   Violation; penalty
§ 1-701 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
CHAPTER 2: ORGANIZATIONS
   Article
      
1.   LIBRARY BOARD
      
2.   BOARD OF HEALTH
      
3.   CITIZENS ADVISORY REVIEW COMMITTEE
      
4.   TREE BOARD
      
5.   PLANNING COMMISSION
      
6.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: LIBRARY BOARD
Section
   
2-101   Library; operation and funding
   
2-102   Members; terms
   
2-103   Officers; meetings
   
2-104   Powers and duties
   
2-105   Annual report to Village Board
   
2-106   Library; rules and regulations
   
2-107   Library; cost of use; violation of rules
   
2-108   Library; books issued
   
2-109   Library; book removal
   
2-110   Library; lost and damaged materials
   
2-111   Library; sale, exchange or disposal of books
   
2-112   Library; book labeling
   
2-113   Library; money collected
§ 2-101 LIBRARY; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The village owns and manages the village library through the Library Board.
The Village Board, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management,
purchases, improvements and maintenance of the library, may each year levy a
tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the village that is
subject to taxation. The revenue from said tax shall be known as the Library
Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests or
other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the library. The Library Fund shall at all
times be in the custody of the Village Treasurer.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-201, 51-202 and 51-211
§ 2-102 MEMBERS; TERMS.
   The Library Board shall be appointed or elected. The Village Board shall by
ordinance adopt the manner in which the at least five members, as updated by
library bylaws, of the Board are to be chosen. If the members are to be chosen
by appointment, the nominated members must receive a majority vote of the
Village Board. If the members are to be elected, the usual election procedures
of the village shall be followed. The members of the Library Board shall serve
four-year terms of office as specified by state statutes. The Board shall serve
without compensation, and the members may be required, in the discretion of the
Village Board, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution and conditioned upon
the faithful performance of their duties.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 6-11-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-202
§ 2-103 OFFICERS; MEETINGS.
   The Library Board shall meet at such times as the Village Board may
designate. At the time of the first meeting in July of each year, the members
shall organize by selecting from their number a president, secretary and such
other officers as may be necessary. No member of the Library Board shall serve
in the capacity of both Chairperson and secretary. It shall be the duty of the
secretary to prepare an agenda for all regular and special meetings, to keep
the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same
with the Village Clerk, where they shall be available for public inspection
during office hours within ten working days or before the next Board meeting,
whichever is earlier. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business. Special meetings may be held upon the call of
the Chairperson or any three Board members.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 6-11-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-204
§ 2-104 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Library Board shall have the authority to appoint a librarian and all
other library employees. It shall be the duty of the Board to have general
charge of the village library and to establish appropriate rules and
regulations for the management, operation and use of the same. The Board shall
have supervisory authority over all employees of the library including the
librarian. All actions of the Library Board shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the Village Board. The Library Board shall be responsible for
making such reports and performing such additional duties as the Village Board
may designate from time to time.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 6-11-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-205 and 51-211
§ 2-105 ANNUAL REPORT TO VILLAGE BOARD.
   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February in each
year, make a report to the Village Board of the condition of its trust on the
last day of the prior fiscal year. The report shall show all money received and
credited or expended; the number of materials held, including books, video and
audio materials, software programs and materials in other formats; the number
of periodical subscriptions on record, including newspapers; the number of
materials added and the number withdrawn from the collection during the year;
the number of materials circulated during the year; and other statistics,
information and suggestions as the Library Board may deem of general interest
or as the Village Board may require. The report shall be verified by affidavit
of the proper officers of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-213)
§ 2-106 LIBRARY; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Library Board shall establish rules and regulations for the governing of
the village library and for the preservation and efficient management thereof.
By general rules it shall fix and impose penalties and forfeitures for injury
to the library grounds, rooms, books or other property or for failure to return
a book. All fees, penalties and forfeitures may be collected in civil action in
the event of failure, neglect or refusal to pay said assessments.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-205 and 51-211
§ 2-107 LIBRARY; COST OF USE; VIOLATION OF RULES.
   Use of the public library shall be free for the inhabitants of the village.
The Village Board may exclude from the use of the library and reading rooms any
person who shall willfully violate or refuse to comply with the rules and
regulations established for the government thereof.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-201 and 51-212
§ 2-108 LIBRARY; BOOKS ISSUED.
   The librarian shall keep or cause to be kept a register of all books issued
and returned at the time they shall so be issued and returned. None of the
books shall be detained more than 14 days without being renewed. No book may be
renewed more than two consecutive times by any person without the special
permission of the librarian or an authorized employee of the village library.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 2-109 LIBRARY; BOOK REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations
made by the Library Board to take a book from the library without the consent
of the librarian or an authorized employee of the library.
   (B)   Any person removing a book from the library without properly checking
it out shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 2-110 LIBRARY; LOST AND DAMAGED MATERIALS.
   Any person who injures or fails to return any item checked out from the
library shall forfeit and pay not less than the value of the item in addition
to any replacement costs and penalty which the Library Board may assess.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 2-111 LIBRARY; SALE, EXCHANGE OR DISPOSAL OF BOOKS.
   The Library Board may authorize the sale, exchange or disposal of any
surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete or duplicate books in the Library.
Records shall be kept of any such books so disposed of.
(Neb. RS 51-207)
§ 2-112 LIBRARY; BOOK LABELING.
   It shall be the duty of the librarian to label or cause to be labeled with a
printed or stamped label proof of village ownership on each book, and also to
write said proof on the thirtieth page of each volume.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 2-113 LIBRARY; MONEY COLLECTED.
   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over monthly by the
librarian to the Village Treasurer along with a report of the sources of the
revenue.
(Neb. RS 51-209)
ARTICLE 2: BOARD OF HEALTH
Section
   
2-201   Members; terms
   
2-202   Officers; meetings
   
2-203   Duties
   
2-204   Enforcement official
   
2-205   State rules
   
2-206   County Health Board
§ 2-201 MEMBERS; TERMS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Board of Health consisting of
three members: the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, who shall be
Chairperson, and two other members. One member shall be a physician or health
care provider, if one can be found who is willing to serve. Such physician or
health care provider, if appointed, shall be the Board of Health’s medical
advisor. If the Board of Trustees has appointed a Chief of Police, the Chief of
Police may be appointed to the Board of Health and serve as secretary and
quarantine officer.
   (B)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and shall
enact rules and regulations, which shall have the force and effect of law, to
safeguard the health of the people of such village and prevent nuisances and
unsanitary conditions. The Board of Health shall enforce such rules and
regulations and provide fines and punishments for violations.
   (C)   The appointees shall hold office for one year unless removed by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees with the advice and consent of the
Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
§ 2-202 OFFICERS; MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Health shall reorganize at its meeting each year after
the Board of Trustees’ meeting when appointments are regularly made and, if
necessary, select a member to serve as Secretary. No member of the Board of
Health shall hold more than one Board of Health position. The Secretary shall
keep full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file the same
with the Village Clerk, where they shall be available for public inspection
during office hours.
   (B)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board of Trustees may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
two members of the Board of Health.
§ 2-203 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to enact rules and regulations
which shall have the full force and effect of law to safeguard the health of
the people of the village. The Board shall enforce the rules and regulations
and provide fines and punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate,
suppress and prevent the occurrence of nuisances and shall actively enforce all
laws of the state and ordinances of the village relating to nuisances and
matters of sanitation which affect the health and safety of the people. The
Board shall regularly inspect such premises and businesses as the Village Board
may direct. The Board shall be responsible for making such reports, prescribing
such penalties and performing such other duties as the Village Board may
designate from time to time. All actions of the Board of Health shall be
subject to the review and supervision of the Village Board.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
§ 2-204 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Chief of Police, or other official designated by the Board of Trustees,
as the quarantine officer, shall be the chief health officer of the village. It
shall be his or her duty to notify the Board of Trustees and the Board of
Health of health nuisances within the village and its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, see Neb. RS 17-208
 § 2-205 STATE RULES.
   The publication “Rules and Regulations Relating to Public Health,” State
Department of Health, is hereby incorporated by reference when the same is
applicable to the village, in its present form and as it may hereafter be
amended. One copy of said publication shall be filed at the office of the
Village Clerk, available for public inspection during office hours.
(Neb. RS 18-132)
§ 2-206 COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
village.
ARTICLE 3: CITIZENS ADVISORY REVIEW COMMITTEE
Section
   
2-301   Creation
   
2-302   Members; terms
   
2-303   Members; criteria for service
   
2-304   Confidential information
§ 2-301 CREATION.
   (A)   The State Local Option Municipal Economic Development Act (hereafter
“LB 840”), being Neb. RS 18-2701 et seq., has been adopted pursuant to the
terms and conditions of the village’s economic development plan as adopted by
the electors of the village at a special election called for consideration of
such legislation.
   (B)   One-third of all sales tax revenues collected from and after July 1,
2012, shall be allocated for funding of LB 840. The Village Treasurer make such
allocation periodically, deposit such funds in the established checking and
savings accounts and do all other things necessary to effect the terms of LB
840.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 2-302 MEMBERS; TERMS.
   (A)   A Citizens Advisory Review Committee of five members has been created
to review the functioning and progress of the economic development program at
regular meetings, not less than quarterly, and to do such other actions as
prescribed by the economic development plan adopted by the electors.
   (B)   The initial Committee shall be comprised of two members who shall have
terms of two years and three members who shall have terms of three years.
Thereafter, all members’ terms of office shall be four years. Such Committee
shall be appointed by the Village Chairperson subject to the approval of the
Village Board. Members may be reappointed once their terms of office have
expired.
   (C)   The Village Chairperson shall appoint one member of the Village Board
to the Committee as ex officio member, who shall provide necessary information
and advice on the economic development program.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 2-303 MEMBERS; CRITERIA FOR SERVICE.
   Membership of the Citizens Advisory Review Committee shall be governed by
the following criteria.
   (A)   All Committee members shall be registered voters of the village.
   (B)   At least one member of the Committee shall have expertise or
experience in the field of business finance or accounting.
   (C)   No member shall be an elected or appointed municipal official.
   (D)   No member shall be an employee of the village.
   (E)   No member shall be an official or employee of a qualifying business
receiving financial assistance under the economic development program.
   (F)   No member shall be an official or employee of any financial
institution participating directly in the economic development program.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 2-304 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   In the administration of the economic development plan, certain parties and
elected or appointed officials or committee members will be permitted access to
business information received by the village in the course of its
administration of the economic development program. The unauthorized disclosure
of such information by any village official, committee member or employee of
the village or program administration personnel is strictly prohibited and any
such person disclosing such information without authorization shall be guilty
of a Class III misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 2-13-2012)
ARTICLE 4: TREE BOARD
Section
   
2-401   Members
   
2-402   Definitions
   
2-403   Trees; species to be planted
   
2-404   Trees; distances and clearances for planting
   
2-405   Public tree care
   
2-406   Trees; topping
   
2-407   Trees; clearance over streets and walkways
   
2-408   Trees; diseased or dying
   
2-409   Trees; removal of stumps
   
2-410   Access to private property
§ 2-401 MEMBERS.
   The members of the Village Board shall serve as the Tree Board for the
village.
§ 2-402 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGER. The official representative of the Tree Board
responsible for administration of the community forestry program.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks and all areas owned by the village or to which the public has free access
as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the village.
§ 2-403 TREES; SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The village shall maintain a list of recommended trees for planting in
public areas. The purpose of this listing will be to maintain diversity in
total tree population. This list shall be available to residents of the village
upon request to aid in the selection of trees for private properties. The list
of recommended trees shall be updated periodically to reflect new developments
or species that will affect the population of the community forest.
§ 2-404 TREES; DISTANCES AND CLEARANCES FOR PLANTING.
   Spacing of street trees will not be restricted except as follows.
   (A)   Street trees may be planted in the tree lawn where there is more than
six feet between the edge of the sidewalk and the curb of the street. Street
trees shall be planted no closer than three feet from a sidewalk, driveway or
street.
   (B)   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet from any street
corner, measured from the point of the nearest intersection of curbs or curb
lines.
   (C)   No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet from any
fireplug.
   (D)   Special permission must be obtained from the Village Board when
planting street trees within ten feet of any point on a line on the ground
immediately below any overhead utility wire or within five lateral feet of any
underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
 § 2-405 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The village shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within right-of-way or bounds of all streets, alleys,
lanes, squares and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure the public
safety.
   (B)   The village may remove or cause or order to be removed any tree or
part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature
is injurious to sewer, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other
public improvements or is seriously affected with any fatal disease.
   (C)   The abutting property owners shall have the right to perform normal
tree care on all street trees.
§ 2-406 TREES; TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or village
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
For the purpose of this section, TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back
of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown
to such a degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees
severely damaged by storms or other causes or certain trees under utility wires
or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be
exempted from this section at the determination of the Tree Board or the
Community Forest Manager.
§ 2-407 TREES; CLEARANCE OVER STREETS AND WALKWAYS.
   Clearance over streets and walkways shall be the responsibility of the
abutting property owner. A clearance of eight feet must be maintained over
walkways and a clearance of 12 feet must be maintained over streets. Property
owners are responsible for trees on their own property as well as trees on the
public way that abuts their property.
§ 2-408 TREES; DISEASED OR DYING.
   (A)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets or on
private property within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section, any
village official shall have the authority to enter upon private property to
inspect the trees thereon.
   (C)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisances and notice of the right to a
hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within 60 days after the receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the village
may have such work done and may levy and assess all or any portion of the costs
and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefited in the
same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied or assessed.
   (D)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the village shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner, which shall be that address
listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first
published.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 2-409 TREES; REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street or park trees shall be removed below the surface of the
ground so that the top of the stump does not project above the surface of the
ground.
§ 2-410 ACCESS TO PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with
access to private property by the village or its representative in the legal
performance of any section of this article.
ARTICLE 5: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
2-501   Created
   
2-502   Chairperson
   
2-503   Powers and duties
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see Chapter 7 of the village’s zoning regulations
§ 2-501 CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Village Planning Commission which shall be
designated as the Village Planning Commission pursuant to Neb. RS 19-926. The
Commission shall consist of five members who shall represent in so far as
possible different professions or occupations in the municipality and who shall
be appointed by the Chairperson, by and with the approval of a three-fourths
vote of the Board of Trustees. All members to the Commission shall serve as
such without compensation and shall hold no other municipal office. The term of
each member shall be three years, except that two members of the first
Commission to be so appointed shall serve for a term of one year, two for the
term of two years and one for a term of three years. All members shall hold
office until their successors are appointed. All members may, after a public
hearing before the Board of Trustees, be removed by the Chairperson, by and
with the consent of a three-fourths vote of the Board of Trustees for
inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office, or other good and
sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise then to of the expiration of
terms shall be filled for the unexpired term by the Chairperson.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 2-502 CHAIRPERSON.
   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create and
fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of Chairperson
shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection. It shall
adopt rules for transacting the business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be a
public record.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 2-503 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees may provide the funds, equipment and
accommodations necessary for the work for the Commission, but the expenditures
of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated
for that purpose by the Board of Trustees; and no expenditures or agreements
for expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
   (B)   It shall be the function and duty of the Commission to make and adopt
plans of the physical development of the municipality, including any areas
outside its boundaries which, in the Commission’s judgment, bear relation to
the planning of such municipality.
   (C)   The Commission shall, from time to time, recommend to the appropriate
public officials, programs for public structures and improvements and for the
financing thereof. It shall be part of its duties to consult and advise with
public officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic, educational,
professional and other organizations, and with citizens with relation to the
protecting or carrying out of the plan.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 7-10-2017)
ARTICLE 6: PENAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
2-601   Violation; penalty
§ 2-601 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 2-501)
CHAPTER 3: ANIMALS AND MISDEMEANORS
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL MISDEMEANORS
      
2.   DOGS AND CATS
      
3.   ANIMALS GENERALLY
      
4.   NUISANCES
      
5.   SEXUAL PREDATORS
      
6.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL MISDEMEANORS
Section
   
3-101   Obstructing an officer
   
3-102   Refusing to aid a peace officer
   
3-103   Impersonating officer
   
3-104   Resisting arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon
   
3-105   Concealed weapons
   
3-106   Discharge of firearms
   
3-107   Discharge of slingshots, paintball guns, blow guns, air rifles or
similar instruments
   
3-108   Stalking
   
3-109   Criminal trespass
   
3-110   Public indecency
   
3-111   Window peeping
   
3-112   Criminal mischief
   
3-113   Theft
   
3-114   Threats; assault in the third degree
   
3-115   Disorderly conduct
   
3-116   Disturbing an assembly
   
3-117   Disturbing the peace
   
3-118   Loud music, recordings, radios and similar devices; exceptions
   
3-119   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain alcohol
   
3-120   Minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor
   
3-121   Littering
   
3-122   Posting notices
   
3-123   Posted advertisements
   
3-124   Appliances in yard
   
3-125   Obstructing water flow
   
3-126   Prohibited fences
   
3-127   Injury to trees
   
3-128   Parks; injury to property; littering
§ 3-101 OBSTRUCTING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of obstructing a peace officer when, by
using or threatening to use violence, force, physical interference or obstacle,
he or she intentionally obstructs, impairs or hinders:
      (1)   The enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace
by a peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official
authority; or
      (2)   A police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the
peace officer’s official authority.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, POLICE ANIMAL means a horse or dog
owned or controlled by the state or any county, city or village for the purpose
of assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to his or her official authority.
(Neb. RS 28-906)
§ 3-102 REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to him
or her to be a peace officer, unreasonably to refuse or fail to aid the peace
officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of this state or village;
   (B)   Securing the offender when apprehended; or
   (C)   Conveying the offender to the jail of the county or this village.
(Neb. RS 28-903)
§ 3-103 IMPERSONATING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity.
(Neb. RS 28-610)
§ 3-104 RESISTING ARREST WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS WEAPON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the use of a deadly or
dangerous weapon, while intentionally preventing or attempting to prevent a
peace officer, acting under color of his or her official authority, from
effecting an arrest of the actor or another, to:
      (1)   Use or threaten to use physical force or violence against the peace
officer or another;
      (2)   Use any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
      (3)   Employ means requiring substantial force to overcome resistance to
effecting the arrest.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section if the
peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or
herself as a peace officer by showing his or her credentials to the person
whose arrest is attempted.
(Neb. RS 28-904)
§ 3-105 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any person who carries a
weapon or weapons concealed on or about his or her person such as a revolver,
pistol, Bowie knife, dirk or knife with a dirk blade attachment, brass or iron
knuckles or any other deadly weapon commits the offense of carrying a concealed
weapon. This section shall not apply to a person who is the holder of a valid
permit issued under the Concealed Handgun Permit Act, being Neb. RS 69-2427 et
seq., if the concealed weapon which the offender is carrying is a handgun as
defined in Neb. RS 69-2429.
(Neb. RS 28-1202)
§ 3-106 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol or other
fowling piece within the village, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the Board of Trustees.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 3-107 DISCHARGE OF SLINGSHOTS, PAINTBALL GUNS, BLOW GUNS, AIR RIFLES OR
SIMILAR INSTRUMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, paint ball
gun, blow gun, air rifle or other like instruments capable of launching a
dangerous projectile therefrom at any time or under any circumstances within
the village.
(Ord. 90-3, passed 3-12-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207
§ 3-108 STALKING.
   (A)   Any person who willfully harasses another person or a family or
household member of such person with the intent to injure, terrify, threaten or
intimidate commits the offense of stalking.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COURSE OF CONDUCT. A pattern of conduct composed of a series of acts over
a period of time, however short, evidencing a continuity of purpose, including
a series of acts of following, detaining, restraining the personal liberty of
or stalking the person or telephoning, contacting or otherwise communicating
with the person.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER.
         (a)   A spouse or former spouse of the victim, children of the victim,
a person presently residing with the victim or who has resided with the victim
in the past, a person who had a child in common with the victim, other persons
related to the victim by consanguinity or affinity, or any person presently
involved in a dating relationship with the victim or who has been involved in a
dating relationship with the victim.
         (b)   For the purpose of this definition, DATING RELATIONSHIP means
frequent, intimate associations primarily characterized by the expectation of
affectional or sexual involvement but does not include a casual relationship or
an ordinary association between persons in a business or social context.
      HARASS. To engage in a knowing and willful course of conduct directed at
a specific person which seriously terrifies, threatens or intimidates the
person and which serves no legitimate purpose.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-311.02 through 28-311.04
§ 3-109 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
         (a)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
         (b)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power
infrastructure facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a
person who has the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE
FACILITY means a power plant, an electrical station or substation, or any other
facility which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103
to support the generation, transmission or distribution of electricity and
which is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (B)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she enters or
remains in any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor;
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) above.
      (2)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she intentionally
causes an electronic device, such as an unmanned aircraft, to enter into, upon
or above the property of another, including such property owned by such person
and leased or rented to another, with the intent to observe another person
without his or her consent in a place of solitude or seclusion.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, UNMANNED AIRCRAFT means an
aircraft, including an aircraft commonly known as a drone, which is operated
without the possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the
aircraft.
(Neb. RS 28-521)
§ 3-110 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   A person 18 years of age or over commits the offense of public
indecency if such person performs or procures, or assists any other person to
perform, in a public place and where the conduct may reasonably be expected to
be viewed by members of the public:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration as defined in Neb. RS 28-318;
      (2)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to affront
or alarm any person; or
      (3)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the
same or opposite sex.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for an individual to
breast-feed a child in a public place.
(Neb. RS 28-806)
§ 3-111 WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to go upon the premises of another and
look or peep into any window, door or other opening in any building located
thereon which is occupied as a place of abode.
§ 3-112 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages the property of another intentionally or recklessly;
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with the property of another so as to
endanger persons or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes a pecuniary loss
of $500 or more, but less than $5,000; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously or recklessly causes a
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $500, or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(Neb. RS 28-519)
§ 3-113 THEFT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to steal any
money, goods or chattels of any kind whatever. Any person who shall steal
property of any kind, whether the same be property having a value of less than
$500, shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 28-509 through 28-518)
§ 3-114 THREATS; ASSAULT IN THE THIRD DEGREE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, knowingly or
recklessly cause bodily injury to another person or threaten another in a
menacing manner.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for any person to commit the above act in
a fight or scuffle entered into by mutual consent.
(Neb. RS 28-310)
§ 3-115 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the village by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting or using obscene or profane language in the
streets or other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by
indecent or disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noise, riots and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 3-116 DISTURBING AN ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to disturb, interrupt or
interfere with any lawful assembly of people, whether religious or otherwise,
by loud and unnecessary noise, threatening behavior or indecent and shocking
behavior.
(Neb. RS 17-556)
§ 3-117 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322)
§ 3-118 LOUD MUSIC, RECORDINGS, RADIOS AND SIMILAR DEVICES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any radio, tape player,
compact disc player, stereophonic sound system or similar device which
reproduces or amplifies radio broadcasts or musical recordings in or upon any
street, alley or other public place in such a manner as to be audible to other
persons more than 50 feet from the source.
   (B)   Persons operating such devices while participating in licensed or
permitted activities, such as parades, shall not be deemed in violation of this
section.
§ 3-119 MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR TO OBTAIN ALCOHOL.
   No minor, as defined by Neb. RS 53-103.23, shall obtain, or attempt to
obtain, alcoholic liquor by misrepresentation of age, or by any other method,
in any tavern or other place where alcoholic liquor is sold.
(Neb. RS 53-180.01)
Statutory reference:
   Penalty for manufacturing false identification intended for minors, see Neb.
RS 53-180.05
 § 3-120 MINORS; PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-
103.01 through 53-103.51 shall apply, including, but not limited to, the
definitions of the terms ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR, CONSUME, MINOR, SALE and TO SELL.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 5, no minor may sell,
dispense, consume or have in his or her possession or physical control any
alcoholic liquor in any tavern or in any other place, including public streets,
alleys, roads or highways, upon property owned by the state or any subdivision
thereof, or inside any vehicle while in or on any other place, including, but
not limited to, the public streets, alleys, roads or highways, or upon property
owned by the state or any subdivision thereof, except that a minor may consume,
possess or have physical control of alcoholic liquor as a part of a bona fide
religious rite, ritual or ceremony or in his or her permanent place of
residence.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Neb. RS 53-180.02)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, where found, see Neb. RS 53-103
   Minor Alcoholic Liquor Liability Act, see Neb. RS 53-401 through 53-409
§ 3-121 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards or otherwise disposes of any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the offense
of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of that
type of material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to
so use the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for that purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes all waste material susceptible of being dropped,
deposited, discarded or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property
in the state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the motor
vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523)
§ 3-122 POSTING NOTICES.
   No person in the village shall fasten any poster or other advertising device
in any way upon public or private property in the village unless legally
authorized to do so.
§ 3-123 POSTED ADVERTISEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wrongfully and maliciously tear,
deface, remove or cover up the posted advertisement or bill of any person, firm
or corporation when said bill or advertisement is rightfully and lawfully
posted and the same remains of value.
§ 3-124 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children, whether on private or public property, unless the person first
removes all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 3-125 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe or hydrant.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to prevent water obstruction, see Neb. RS 17-920
§ 3-126 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits where
the fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on barbed wire fences, see Neb. RS 39-307
§ 3-127 INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly and without
lawful authority to cut down, carry away, injure, break down or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing on any land
belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the corporate
limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application to the
Board of Trustees to do so, and the written permit of the Board of Trustees in
accordance with its decision to allow such an action shall constitute the only
lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
§ 3-128 PARKS; INJURY TO PROPERTY; LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub; to injure or destroy any sodded or
planted area; or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table or any other property of the village parks and recreational areas.
No person shall commit any waste on or litter the village parks or other public
grounds.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563 and 28-523
ARTICLE 2: DOGS AND CATS
Section
   
3-201   Definitions
   
3-202   Dogs; rabies vaccination
   
3-203   Dogs; rabies certificate; licensing; fee
   
3-204   Dogs; lost tag
   
3-205   Dogs; wrongful licensing
   
3-206   Dogs; removal of license tag
   
3-207   Dogs; collar and name tag required
   
3-208   Dogs; unlicensed; fee
   
3-209   Running at large
   
3-210   Dogs; damage; liability of owner
   
3-211   Offensive behavior
   
3-212   Dogs; female in season
   
3-213   Dogs; fighting
   
3-214   Rabies proclamation
   
3-215   Rabies suspected; impoundment
   
3-216   Dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs
   
3-217   Impoundment
   
3-218   Interference with Animal Control
§ 3-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom other than an uncaptured
wild creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person authorized by law or employed or
appointed for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this chapter or any
other law or ordinance relating to the licensing, control, seizure or
impoundment of animals.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, harbors or has charge, custody
or control of an animal or permits an animal to habitually remain or be lodged
or fed within his or her house, store, building, enclosure, yard, lot, grounds
or premises. OWNER does not include any veterinarian or kennel operator
temporarily maintaining on his or her premises an animal owned by another
person for not more than 30 days.
   RUN AT LARGE. Not being under the actual control of the owner by means of:
      (1)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
which is securely fastened or tethered in a manner sufficient to keep the
animal on the premises where tethered;
      (2)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
of six feet or less in length physically held by the owner;
      (3)   Being confined within a cage, receptacle, enclosed vehicle, fenced
enclosure or shelter; or
      (4)   Being within the real property limits of the owner and in the
owner’s presence and under direct and effective voice or other control.
§ 3-202 DOGS; RABIES VACCINATION.
   Every dog shall be vaccinated against rabies pursuant to state law.
Unvaccinated dogs acquired or moved into the village must be vaccinated within
30 days after purchase unless under the age for initial vaccination. The
provisions of this section with respect to vaccination shall not apply to any
dogs owned by a person temporarily residing within this village for fewer than
30 days, any dog brought into this village for show purposes or any dog brought
into this village for hunting purposes for a period of fewer than 30 days; such
dogs shall be kept under the strict supervision of the owner.
(Neb. RS 71-4402)
§ 3-203 DOGS; RABIES CERTIFICATE; LICENSING; FEE.
   (A)   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog over the age of six
months within the village shall within 30 days after acquisition of said dog
acquire a license for each animal annually by or before May 1 each year.
Application shall be made upon a printed form provided by the village, upon
which the owner shall state his or her name and address and the name, breed,
color and sex of each dog owned and kept by him or her. A certificate stating
that the dog has had a rabies shot, effective for the ensuing year of the
license, shall be presented when the license is applied for and no license or
tag shall be issued until the certificate is shown. If the dog has been spayed
or neutered, a statement signed by a veterinarian verifying the spaying or
neutering must be presented.
   (B)   Upon payment of the license fee set by resolution and on file at the
village office, the Village Clerk shall issue to the dog owner a license
certificate and a metallic tag for each animal so licensed. The village shall,
in addition to the license tax imposed, collect from the licensee a fee of $1.
The Clerk shall retain $0.03 from said fee and remit the balance to the State
Treasurer for credit to the Commercial Dog and Cat Operator Inspection Program
Cash Fund. The $0.03 collected shall be credited to the General Fund.
   (C)   Said dog tax shall be delinquent from and after May 1; provided, that
the possessor of any dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits
subsequent to May 1 shall be liable for the payment of the dog tax levied
herein and such tax shall be delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter.
It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to issue tags of a suitable design
that are different in appearance each year.
   (D)   The metallic tag shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of every dog so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor said
animal until April 30 of the following year. Said licenses shall not be
transferable and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale or other
disposition of the licensed dog.
   (E)   Every service animal shall be licensed but no license tax shall be
charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of the animal as a service
animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the payment of a license
tax as prescribed herein.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 54-603
§ 3-204 DOGS; LOST TAG.
   In the event that a licensing tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence
that the original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions herein, the
Village Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year
for which the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee set
by resolution of the Village Board for each duplicate tag so issued. Such
resolution shall be placed on file in the office of the Village Clerk for
public inspection.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 54-603
§ 3-205 DOGS; WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any dog to permit
or allow such dog to wear any license, metallic tag or other village
identification other than that issued by the Village Clerk, nor shall the
owner, keeper or harborer wrongfully and knowingly license an unspayed female
dog with a license prescribed for a male or spayed female dog.
(Neb. RS 17-526)
§ 3-206 DOGS; REMOVAL OF LICENSE TAG.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed the
collar, harness or metallic tag from any licensed dog without the consent of
the owner, keeper or possessor thereof.
(Neb. RS 17-526)
§ 3-207 DOGS; COLLAR AND NAME TAG REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of every owner of any dog to securely place upon the
neck of such dog a good and sufficient collar with a metallic plate attached
thereon which shall be plainly inscribed with the name of such owner.
(Neb. RS 54-605)
§ 3-208 DOGS; UNLICENSED; FEE.
   (A)   All dogs found running at large upon the streets and public grounds of
the village without a license tag affixed as required in this article are
hereby declared a public nuisance.
   (B)   For any person failing to license a dog in contravention of §
3-203, a late fee of $50 per dog per year of failed licensure shall be imposed.
Failure to pay said late fee within 30 days of notice of its imposition shall
be punished in accordance with § 3-601.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 7-10-2023; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
§ 3-209 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or cat to allow
such animal to run at large at any time within the corporate limits of the
village.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the municipal officer designated by the
Village Board to cause any dog or cat found to be running at large within the
village to be captured and impounded.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, RUNNING AT LARGE shall mean any dog
or cat found off the premises of the owner and not under control of the owner
or responsible person, either by leash, cord, chain, wire, rope, cage or other
suitable means of physical restraint.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 6-9-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 54-607
§ 3-210 DOGS; DAMAGE; LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner of the dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon conviction, may be
made to be liable to the person injured in an amount equal to the value of the
damage sustained.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against injuries or annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
   Statutory liability for damages, see Neb. RS 54-601, 54-602 and 54-606
§ 3-211 OFFENSIVE BEHAVIOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog or cat
which by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or yelping shall annoy or
disturb any neighborhood or person or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers or owners of horses or vehicles while they are on any
public sidewalks, streets or alleys in the village. Upon the written complaint
of two or more affected persons from different households, filed within any 30-
day period with the Village Clerk, that any dog or cat owned by the person
named in the complaint is an annoyance or disturbance or otherwise violates the
provisions of this section, the animal control officer shall investigate the
complaint and, if in his or her opinion the situation warrants, shall notify
the owner to silence and restrain such dog or cat. The provisions of this
section shall not be construed to apply to the village animal shelter.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 6-9-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
 § 3-212 DOGS; FEMALE IN SEASON.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of a female
dog to permit her to run at large within the village while in season. Any such
female dog found running at large in violation of this section shall be
declared to be a public nuisance and as such may be impounded or killed
according to the provisions herein.
(Neb. RS 17-526)
§ 3-213 DOGS; FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight.
(Neb. RS 17-526)
§ 3-214 RABIES PROCLAMATION.
   Whenever, in its opinion, the danger to the public safety from a species of
rabid animals is great or imminent, the Board of Trustees shall issue a
proclamation ordering all owners of any such species to muzzle the animal or to
confine it for a period of not less than 30 days nor more than 90 days from the
date of the proclamation or until the danger is passed. The animal may be
harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage or yard on the
premises on which the owner may reside. Upon issuance of a proclamation, all
owners of any such species shall muzzle or confine the animal as provided in
this section.
§ 3-215 RABIES SUSPECTED; IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any dog or cat suspected of being afflicted with rabies or any dog or cat
not vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this article which has
bitten any person and caused an abrasion of the skin shall be seized and
impounded under the supervision of the Board of Health for a period of no fewer
than ten days. If, upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog or cat has no
clinical signs of rabies at the end of such impoundment, it may be released to
the owner or, in the case of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in
accordance with the provisions herein. If the owner of said dog or cat has
proof of vaccination, it shall be confined by the owner or some other
responsible person for a period of at least ten days, at which time it shall be
examined by a licensed veterinarian. If no signs of rabies are observed, the
dog or cat may be released from confinement.
(Neb. RS 71-4406)
§ 3-216 DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, when unprovoked inflicts a severe or non-
severe injury on a human or injures a domestic animal either on public or
private property; or any dog which attacks a human being or a domestic animal
one time without provocation.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that chases or approaches a person
upon streets, sidewalks or any public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent
attitude of attack; or any specific dog with a propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the
safety of human beings or domestic animals; or any restricted breed dog.
      RESTRICTED BREED. Any of the following breeds of dogs; in the event that
there is any question about whether any dog has the appearance and dominant
characteristics of the below-described breeds, the dog shall be examined by a
state licensed veterinarian, and his or her opinion shall be conclusive
evidence of such animal’s predominant breed:
         (a)   Bull Terrier;
         (b)   Staffordshire Bull Terrier;
         (c)   American Pit Bull Terrier;
         (d)   American Staffordshire Terrier;
         (e)   Chow;
         (f)   Doberman;
         (g)   Rottweiler;
         (h)   Wolf or wolf hybrid;
         (i)   Any dog of a mixed breed which includes any of the above-listed
breeds;
         (j)   Any dog which is or has the appearance of characteristics of
being predominantly a breed which includes any of the above-listed breeds, or a
combination of any of these breeds; or
         (k)   Any dog used or that has been used or trained in the sport of
animal fighting.
   (B)   Restraint. No person owning, harboring or having the care of a
dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond
the property of such person unless the dog is securely restrained by an
approved leash or chain not exceeding three feet in length and must be muzzled
by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such dog from biting persons or
animals and must be under the control of an able-bodied adult. Such dog shall
not be leashed to inanimate objects such as trees, posts or buildings.
   (C)   Confinement. While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog
or a potentially dangerous dog shall be securely confined in a humane manner
indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure suitably designed
to prevent the entry of young children and to prevent the dog from escaping.
The pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or
structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides shall be imbedded into
the ground no less than two feet deep. The pen or structure shall also protect
the dog from the elements. The owner of a dangerous dog or a potentially
dangerous dog shall post a warning sign on the property where the dog is kept
that is clearly visible and that informs persons that a dangerous dog or
potentially dangerous dog is on the property. No dangerous dog or potentially
dangerous dog shall be kept on a porch, patio or on any part of any residential
building that would allow the dog to exit the building on its own. In addition,
no such dog shall be kept in a house or other structure when the windows are
open or when screen windows or screen doors are the only obstacle preventing
the dog from exiting the structure.
   (D)   Liability insurance required on restricted breed dogs. Owners of
restricted breed dogs shall present to the Village Clerk proof that such owners
have procured a liability insurance policy or a surety bond in the amount of
not less than $100,000 covering any damage or injury that may be caused by such
restricted breed dogs. The policy or surety shall contain a provision requiring
the Village Clerk be notified immediately by the agent issuing the policy or
surety in the event that the same expires or is canceled or terminated. The
owner(s) of a restricted breed dog shall sign a statement attesting that such
owner shall maintain and not voluntarily cancel the policy or surety during the
12-month period for which licensing is sought, unless such owners cease to own
or keep the dogs prior to the end of the licensing period.
   (E)   Failure to comply. A court may order the animal control authority to
destroy in an expeditious and humane manner any dangerous dog or potentially
dangerous dog that attacks a human being or another domestic animal when, in
the court’s judgment, such dog represents a continuing threat of serious harm
to human beings or domestic animals. In addition, any person found guilty of
violating this section shall pay all expenses, including shelter, food,
veterinary expenses for identification or certification of the breed of the
animal, or boarding and veterinary expenses necessitated by the seizure of any
dog for the protection of the public and such other expenses as may be required
for destruction of any such dog. Boarding expenses per day shall be assessed as
set by resolution and placed on file at the village office. Any seized dog
shall be boarded for a period not to exceed five days. Any owner claiming a
seized dog must pay the village all expenses, including, but not limited to,
said boarding fee, before said dog shall be released to said owner.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 2-9-2009)
§ 3-217 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any animal found in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
be impounded. All impounded domestic animals shall be given proper care,
treatment and maintenance.
   (B)   Notice of the impoundment of all animals, including any significant
marks of identification, shall be posted at the pound and at the office of the
Village Clerk within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification of
impoundment. Notice of the impoundment of any licensed dog shall also be mailed
to the owner listed on the license application by regular United States mail to
the address listed on the application.
   (C)   Each impounded domestic animal shall be kept and maintained at the
pound for a period of not less than five days after public notice has been
given unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. The owner may reclaim the animal
during the period of impoundment by payment of any general impoundment and
daily board fees set by resolution of the Board of Trustees and on file in the
office of the Village Clerk, except that in addition, an unusual or other
nondomesticated or wild animal shall only be released upon condition that the
owner shall immediately remove the animal from the village or destroy it. A
diseased animal may be released upon a determination that the health and safety
of the public is no longer threatened. The owner of any released animal shall
be required to comply with any licensing and rabies vaccination requirements
applicable to such animal within 72 hours after release.
   (D)   If the animal is unclaimed at the end of the required waiting period
after public notice has been given, the animal control officer may destroy and
dispose of the animal in a humane manner in accordance with applicable rules
and regulations, except that if, in the judgment of the officer, a suitable
home can be found for the animal, the animal shall be turned over to the person
who can provide such home and the new owner shall be required to pay all fees
and meet all applicable licensing and vaccinating requirements. The village
shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog or any other animal impounded
in the animal shelter for a period longer than the required waiting period
after giving notice. The owner of the animal shall remain liable for payment of
the fees established by the Board of Trustees.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish pens and pounds, see Neb. RS 17-548 and 71-4408
   Authority to impound and sell animals, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
§ 3-218 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
police officer or animal control officer who is performing any duty enjoined
upon that person by the provisions of this chapter or to break open, or in any
manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open, of the
animal shelter, any ambulance wagon or any other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of animals to the shelter.
ARTICLE 3: ANIMALS GENERALLY
Section
   
3-301   Controlled within village
   
3-302   Running at large
   
3-303   Enclosures
   
3-304   Rabies suspected; capture impossible
   
3-305   Unusual and exotic animals prohibited
§ 3-301 CONTROLLED WITHIN VILLAGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the term RESIDENCE OR PLACE OF ABODE
shall be held to mean a dwelling permanently attached to real estate which is
occupied by one or more persons for use as a residence.
   (B)   The Village Board hereby finds, determines and declares that it is
necessary to regulate and limit certain types and numbers of animals and fowls
kept within the corporate limits of the village and further finds, determines
and declares that it is necessary to eliminate entirely the keeping of swine of
any kind and number within the corporate limits of the village due to the odor
and nuisance created by the keeping of swine, including, but not limited to,
the destructive effect upon real estate caused by swine in the form of rooting
and defacing.
   (C)   No person, whether as owner, bailee, keeper or custodian, shall keep
or maintain any horse, mule, cow, sheep, goat, rabbit or any other quadruped
animal or any chicken, turkey, duck, goose or like fowl within 100 feet of any
part of any residence or place of abode used by another within the corporate
limits of the village.
   (D)   No person, whether as owner, bailee, keeper or custodian, shall keep
or maintain any swine within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 90-1, passed 1-8-1990; Ord. 90-6, passed 4-9-1990)
§ 3-302 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cow, hog, horse, mule,
sheep, goat, dog, chicken, turkey, goose or other animal, except a cat, to
permit the animal to run at large at any time on any of the public ways and
property or the property of another in the village, or to be tethered or staked
out in such a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass into any public
way or property or any property of another.
   (B)   The owner of a cat may permit the cat to run at large within the
corporate limits subject to any restrictions or prohibitions otherwise imposed
by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Any animal found running at large or tethered or staked out in
violation of this section is a public nuisance and may be impounded or
destroyed as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit anyone to own an
animal in the corporate limits of the village that is prohibited by the Board
of Trustees.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
   Fine for permitting collarless dog to run at large, see Neb. RS 54-607
§ 3-303 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement of animals not specifically barred within the corporate limits
shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace or
nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
 § 3-304 RABIES SUSPECTED; CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The animal control authority, as defined in Chapter 3, Article 2, shall have
the authority to kill any animal showing vicious tendencies or characteristics
of rabies which make capture impossible because of the danger involved.
(Neb. RS 71-4406)
§ 3-305 UNUSUAL AND EXOTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, keep or harbor
any unusual animal within the corporate limits of the village, except that this
section shall not be construed to prohibit a public zoo, circus, humane society
or carnival from displaying unusual animals as exhibits or to prohibit any
wildlife rescue organizations with appropriate permits from the State Game and
Parks Commission from rehabilitating or sheltering unusual animals.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell, give away,
transfer or import into the village any unusual animal as defined in this
section, excluding a public zoo from doing business with another public zoo.
   (C)   In the event the Chief of Police, if any, or any member of law
enforcement with jurisdiction in the village determines an unusual or exotic
animal is being owned, kept or harbored by any person in violation of this
section, the officer may have such person or persons prosecuted for such
violation and shall order such person or persons to remove said unusual or
exotic animal or animals from the village or have the same destroyed. Any such
order shall be contained in a written notice directed to the owner or owners to
remove or destroy said unusual or exotic animal within ten days of said written
notice and shall be delivered in person or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the owner(s) as known. If the owner(s) or person(s) keeping or
harboring such unusual or exotic animal shall have failed to remove or destroy
it after the expiration of ten days from the receipt of said notice and no
appeal is taken, the appropriate law enforcement officer shall have such
unusual or exotic animal destroyed.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTICATED. A tame animal that is subject to the dominion and control
of an owner or person keeping or harboring said animal and accustomed to living
in or near human habitation without requiring extraordinary restraint for the
protection of humans or unreasonably disturbing such human habitation.
      UNUSUAL OR EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any poisonous or potentially dangerous animal
not normally considered domesticated and shall include animals specifically
prohibited by the village, the state or federal agencies, and:
         (a)   Class Mammalia; order Carnivora, family Felidae (such as lions,
tigers, jaguars, leopards, bobcats and cougars), except commonly accepted
domestic cats and hybrids involving the same; family Canidae (such as wolves,
coyotes and fox), except domesticated dogs and hybrids involving the same;
family Mustelidae (such as weasels, martins, fishers, skunks, wolverines, mink
and badgers), except ferrets; family Procyonidae (such as raccoons); family
Ursidae (such as bears); order Primata (such as monkeys and chimpanzees); and
order Chiroptera (such as bats); and
         (b)   Poisonous reptiles, cobras and their allies (Elapidae,
Hydrophiidae); vipers and their allies (Crotalidae, Viperidae); boomslangs and
Kirkland’s tree snakes; and Gila monsters (Helodermatidae).
(Ord. 99-1, passed 2-8-1999)
ARTICLE 4: NUISANCES
Section
   
3-401   Nuisances; generally defined
   
3-402   Nuisances; specifically defined
   
3-403   Weeds or other nuisances; abatement; notice
   
3-404   Weeds or other nuisances; failure to correct
   
3-405   Weeds or other nuisances; second offense
   
3-406   Dangerous buildings; defects
   
3-407   Dangerous buildings; building inspector
   
3-408   Dangerous buildings; standards
   
3-409   Dangerous buildings; unlawful maintenance
   
3-410   Dangerous buildings; nuisance; procedure
   
3-411   Dangerous buildings; failure to comply
   
3-412   Dangerous buildings; disputes
   
3-413   Dangerous buildings; appeal
   
3-414   Dangerous buildings; immediate hazard
   
3-415   Dangerous buildings; penalty
   
3-416   Nuisances; jurisdiction
   
3-417   Nuisances; adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
   
3-418   Vacant buildings; purpose
   
3-419   Vacant buildings; definitions
   
3-420   Vacant buildings; registration
   
3-421   Vacant buildings; building fees
   
3-422   Vacant buildings; exemptions
   
3-423   Vacant buildings; inspections
   
3-424   Vacant buildings; penalties
   
3-425   Vacant buildings; due process
§ 3-401 NUISANCES; GENERALLY DEFINED.
   A NUISANCE consists in doing any unlawful act, omitting to perform a duty or
suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act,
omission, condition or thing either:
   (A)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose health or safety of others;
   (B)   Offends decency;
   (C)   Is offensive to the senses;
   (D)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street or
highway in the village;
   (E)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
   (F)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Neb. RS 18-1720)
§ 3-402 NUISANCES; SPECIFICALLY DEFINED.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting of any of
the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are
hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
   (A)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides, skins,
feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal, fish or
fowl;
    (B)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
   (C)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
   (D)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which, is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the village;
   (E)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the village nor the dumping of nonputrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
   (F)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
   (G)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not neatly
piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials when any
of said articles or materials create condition in which flies or rats may breed
or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or which are so unsightly as to
depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (H)   Any buildings or structures which have any or all of the following
defects are hereby declared to be unsafe or dangerous buildings or structures
and a public nuisance:
      (1)   Those having walls or other vertical structural members that list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity falls outside the middle third of its base;
      (2)   Those showing 33% or more of damage or deterioration of the
supporting member or members, exclusive of the foundation;
      (3)   Those with improperly distributed loads upon floors or roofs or in
which the same are overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used;
      (4)   Those damaged by fire, wind or other causes so as to have become
dangerous to life, safety or the general health and welfare of the occupants of
the people of the village;
      (5)   Those which have become dilapidated, decayed, unsafe, unsanitary or
which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to decent living that
they are unfit for human habitation or are likely to cause sickness or disease,
so as to injure to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of those
living therein;
      (6)   Those having light, air and sanitation facilities which are
inadequate to protect the health, safety or general welfare of human beings who
live or may live therein;
      (7)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in the case of fire
or panic or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes or
other means of communication;
      (8)   Those having parts thereof which are so attached that they may fall
and injure persons or property;
      (9)   Those that are unsafe, unsanitary or dangerous to the health,
safety or general welfare of the people of the village because of their
condition;
      (10)   Those having been inspected by the County Health Department or a
professional engineer appointed by the village which are, after inspection,
deem to be in violation of any provision of the Health Department rules and
regulations or which are structurally unsafe or unsound as found by the
inspection of the professional engineer; and/or
      (11)   Those existing in violation of any provision of this article, any
provision of the fire prevention code, any provision of the county health rules
and regulations or other applicable provisions of village ordinances,
including, but not limited to, the building code adopted by the village.
   (I)   All places used or maintained as junkyards or dumping grounds, or for
the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of
any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which said places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (J)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of ground;
   (K)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens or
any other place, building or enclosure in which animals or fowl of any kind are
confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter, including grain, is being
processed, when said places in which said animals are confined, or said
premises on which said vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained
and kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom, to the annoyance of inhabitants of the village, or are maintained
and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
   (L)   Maintenance of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation of 12 inches or
more in height, or eight inches or more in heigh of weeds, grasses or worthless
vegetation on any lot or piece of ground located with the corporate limits
during any calendar year if, with the same calendar year, the village has
previously acted to remove weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation exceeding 12
inches in height on the same lot or piece of ground and had to seek recovery of
the costs and expenses of such work from the owner. Weeds shall include, but
not be limited to, bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis), puncture vine (Tribulus
terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense),
perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian knapweed (Centaurea picris),
Johnson grass (Sorgum halespense), nodding or musk thistle, quack grass
(Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus arvensis), horse nettle
(Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium lanceoltaum), buckthorn (Rhammus
sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa) and ragweed (Am-brosiaceae);
   (M)   Mobile storage containers on real estate located in areas zoned as
residential;
   (N)   Any machine, vehicle or parts of a machine or vehicle which have lost
their identity, character, utility or serviceability as such through
deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of time, are inoperative or unable to
perform their intended functions, or are cast off, discarded or thrown away or
left as waste, wreckage or junk;
   (O)   Any motor vehicle without a current license and not housed in a
storage or other building;
   (P)   Any wood or tree limbs not cut and stacked in neat rows on an area not
exceeding ten feet by 16 feet;
   (Q)   Debris from burned or damaged buildings, whether created by consensual
burning or demolition or whether occurring due to fire or age; and
   (R)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 3-14-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 3-403 WEEDS OR OTHER NUISANCES; ABATEMENT; NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of Police or code enforcement officer appointed by
the Village Chairperson determines that any weeds or grasses in excess of 12
inches or weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation eight inches or more in
height, as described in §
3-402(L), are growing on property within the village, or other nuisance as
defined herein, except dangerous buildings, is found on any property, the
Village Clerk shall give notice to mow, abate and remove such nuisance as
follows:
      (1)   To each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent by certified mail,
which shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance; and
      (2)   To the occupant, if any, by personal service by a village police
officer or County Sheriff or deputy.
   (B)   Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant
of the lot or piece of ground may request a hearing with the village to appeal
the order to mow, abate or remove the nuisance by filing a written appeal with
the office of the Village Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within
14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by the Village
Chairperson as hearing officer, who shall render a decision on the appeal
within five business days after the conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal
fails, the village may have such work done unless such decision is appealed to
the District Court. The hearing shall be conducted according to the provisions
set forth in §
3-412(B) hereafter, except that the hearing shall be conducted by the Village
Chairperson instead of the Village Board.
   (C)   Within five days after receipt of such notice, if the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the
village or fails to comply with the order to mow, or abate and remove the
nuisance, the village may have such work done. The costs and expenses of any
such work shall be paid by the owner. If unpaid for two months after such work
is done, the village may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or
piece of ground so benefited in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
§ 3-404 WEEDS OR OTHER NUISANCES; FAILURE TO CORRECT.
   Any owner or occupant of premises within the village who maintains a
nuisance, as defined herein except dangerous buildings, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day’s further violation shall be a separate offense.
§ 3-405 WEEDS OR OTHER NUISANCES; SECOND OFFENSE.
   In the event that an owner or agent of any property with the village shall
have received a notice to correct or abate a nuisance within the past 12 months
and is again charged with maintaining a nuisance, as defined herein except
dangerous buildings, the Chief of Police shall forthwith file a complaint
against such owner or agent for maintenance of a nuisance with the County
Court.
§ 3-406 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS; DEFECTS.
   Any buildings or structures which have any or all of the following defects
are hereby declared to be unsafe or dangerous buildings or structures and a
public nuisance:
   (A)   Those having walls or other vertical structural members that list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity falls outside the middle third of its base;
   (B)   Those showing 33% or more of damage or deterioration of the supporting
member or members, exclusive of the foundation;
   (C)   Those with improperly distributed loads upon floors or roofs or in
which the same are overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used;
   (D)   Those damaged by fire, wind or other causes so as to have become
dangerous to life, safety or the general health and welfare of the occupants of
the people of the village;
   (E)   Those which have become dilapidated, decayed, unsafe, unsanitary or
which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to decent living that
they are unfit for human habitation or are likely to cause sickness or disease,
so as to work injury to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of those
living therein;
   (F)   Those having light, air and sanitation facilities which are inadequate
to protect the health, safety or general welfare of human beings who live or
may live therein;
   (G)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in the case of fire or
panic, or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other
means of communication;
   (H)   Those having parts thereof which are so attached that they may fall
and injure persons or property;
    (I)   Those that are unsafe, unsanitary or dangerous to the health, safety
or general welfare of the people of the village because of their condition;
   (J)   Those having been inspected by the County Health Department or a
professional engineer appointed by the village which are, after inspection,
deemed to be in violation of any provision of the Health Department rules and
regulations or which are structurally unsafe or unsound as found by the
inspection of the professional engineer; and/or
   (K)   Those existing in violation of any provision of this article, any
provision of the fire code, any provision of the county health rules and
regulations or other applicable provisions of village ordinances, including,
but not limited to, the building code adopted by the village.
§ 3-407 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS; BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   A specially designated building inspector, his or her authorized
representatives or a professional engineer shall, at the direction of the
Village Board:
   (A)   Inspect any building, wall or structure about which complaints are
filed by any person to the effect that a building, wall or structure is or may
be existing in a dangerous or unsafe manner;
   (B)   Inspect any building or structure within the jurisdictional area of
the village for the purpose of determining whether any conditions exist which
render such place a dangerous or unsafe building or structure within the terms
of this article;
   (C)   Report to the Village Board the results of the inspection; and
   (D)   Appear at all hearings and testify as to the condition of the unsafe
or dangerous building or structure.
§ 3-408 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS; STANDARDS.
   In the event that it is determined that any building or structure is unsafe
or dangerous the following standards shall be followed in substance in
determining whether the structure or building should be repaired, vacated or
demolished.
   (A)   If the unsafe or dangerous building or structure can reasonably be
repaired so that it will no longer exist in violation of any of the terms or
provisions of this article, it shall be ordered to be repaired.
   (B)   If the unsafe or dangerous building is in such condition as to make it
dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of its occupants, it
shall be ordered to be vacated.
   (C)   In any case where an unsafe or dangerous building or structure cannot
be repaired so that it will no longer exist in violation of the terms or
provisions of this article, it shall be demolished. In all cases where the
unsafe or dangerous building is a fire hazard existing or erected in violation
of the applicable fire codes and regulations, or any other provision of an
ordinance of this village, or statute of the state, it shall be demolished.
§ 3-409 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS; UNLAWFUL MAINTENANCE.
   It is hereby determined unlawful to maintain a dangerous building within the
corporate limits of the village or within its zoning jurisdiction.
§ 3-410 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS; NUISANCE; PROCEDURE.
   If the specially designated building inspector or his or her representatives
or professional engineer finds that a building or structure is unsafe or
dangerous and a nuisance, the Village Board shall:
   (A)   Notify the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent or other persons
having an interest in the building or structure that it has been found to be an
unsafe or dangerous building. The notice will indicate whether the owner must
vacate, repair or demolish the building or structure;
   (B)   Set forth in the notice a description of the building or structure
deemed unsafe or dangerous, accompanied by a statement of the particulars which
make the building or structure unsafe or dangerous and an order requiring the
same to be put in such condition as to comply with the terms of this article
within such length of time, not exceeding 30 days, as is reasonable; and
   (C)   Direct a village employee to place a sign on the building or structure
found to be unsafe or dangerous on its exterior near the main entrance which
shall set forth that the building or structure is unsafe or dangerous for
occupancy and use.
§ 3-411 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   In case any owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent or other person having
an interest in the building or structure shall fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with the notice by or on behalf of the village to repair, rehabilitate
or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe or dangerous and
a public nuisance, and fails to request a hearing on such determination, the
village may proceed with the work specified in the notice to the property
owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Village
Board, which is authorized to levy the cost as a special assessment against the
property. Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and shall
be collected in the manner provided for special assessments under state
statutes.
§ 3-412 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS; DISPUTES.
   (A)   (1)   In the event that the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent
or other person having an interest in the building or structure disagrees with
or disputes the information contained in the notice, such person shall notify
the Village Clerk with a written statement that sets forth the reasons for the
disagreement or dispute and the relief requested.
      (2)   This written request shall be made within 14 days of mailing of the
notice provided by §
3-403. If written notice is received by the Village Clerk within 14 days of
mailing or delivery of notice, a hearing shall be held before the Village
Board, either at a special meeting or at a regularly scheduled monthly meeting.
The Clerk shall notify the person requesting the hearing, in writing, of the
time, place and date of such hearing.
   (B)   The hearing before the Village Board shall be informal and not
governed by the State Rules of Evidence. Such hearing shall be quasi-judicial
in nature and its decision shall be based on the evidence presented at the
hearing. The person requesting the hearing may be represented by legal counsel
or other representative, may present witnesses and offer evidence, and may
examine and copy, at his or her own expense, and not less than three business
days before the hearing, the records of the village regarding the inspection
and notice. The Village Board need not make a written finding of fact and may
make its pronouncement orally at the hearing. The decision of the Village Board
shall be final unless appealed. Failure of the person to attend the hearing
shall relieve the Village Board of any further procedures before action is
taken as set forth in a notice.
§ 3-413 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS; APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Village Board may appeal the
decision to the District Court. This appeal shall and must be taken within 30
days of the pronouncement of the Village Board’s decision.
§ 3-414 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS; IMMEDIATE HAZARD.
   In the event the building constitutes an immediate hazard to the life or
safety of any persons and must be demolished to protect their health or safety,
the specially appointed building inspector or professional engineer designated
by the Village Board shall report such facts to said Board. Upon receipt of
such report the village, by and through the Village Board, may immediately
contract for the immediate demolition of the unsafe or dangerous building
without requiring bids. The cost of such emergency vacation and demolition of
unsafe or dangerous buildings or structures shall be levied, equalized and
assessed, as are other special assessments.
§ 3-415 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS; PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or other legal entity maintaining a dangerous building
within the corporate limits of the village or its zoning jurisdiction shall be
guilty of violation and shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $500. Each day’s
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
§ 3-416 NUISANCES; JURISDICTION.
   The Chairperson and Village Marshal are directed to enforce this village
code against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Chairperson, Village
Marshal and court shall extend to, and the territorial application of this
chapter shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits of the village
within one mile thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
(Neb. RS 18-1720)
§ 3-417 NUISANCES; ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the Board of Trustees condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the village,
the owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time
before trial.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-710
§ 3-418 VACANT BUILDINGS; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Recognizing that vacant buildings and properties contribute to blight
in commercial neighborhoods, discourage economic development and retard
appreciation of property values, endanger public health and safety, attract
criminal activity and create fire hazards, it is the responsibility of property
owners to prevent buildings from becoming a burden to the neighborhood and
community and a threat to the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Maintenance of the public health, safety and welfare thus requires the
village to maintain an accurate registration of all vacant buildings and
properties.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 5-9-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
§ 3-419 VACANT BUILDINGS; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
3-418 through
3-425, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition or circumstance that on its own or in
combination with other conditions or circumstances would lead a reasonable
person to believe that a residential building or commercial building is vacant.
Such conditions or circumstances may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Overgrown or dead vegetation, including grass, shrubbery and other
plantings;
      (2)   An accumulation of abandoned personal property, trash or other
waste;
      (3)   Visible deterioration or lack of maintenance of any building or
structure on the property;
      (4)   Graffiti or other defacement of any building or structure on the
property; or
      (5)   Any other condition or circumstance reasonably indicating that the
property is not lawfully occupied for residential purposes or being used for
the operation of a lawful business.
   OWNER. The person or persons shown to be the owner or owners of record on
the records of the Register of Deeds.
   VACANT. That a building exhibits evidence of vacancy.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Clearwater.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 5-9-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
§ 3-420 VACANT BUILDINGS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The village shall create a vacant property registration database and
the Village Clerk is designated as program administrator. The program
administrator may utilize additional village employees as may be necessary to
administer the program.
   (B)   The owner of a vacant building shall register the building with the
Village Clerk if the property has been vacant for 180 days or longer. A vacant
property registration form shall be in either paper or electronic form, and the
following information shall be required:
      (1)   The name, street address, mailing address, telephone number and, if
applicable, the facsimile number and email address of the property owner and
his or her agent;
      (2)   The street address and parcel identification number of the vacant
property;
      (3)   The transfer date of the instrument conveying the property to the
owner;
      (4)   The date on which the property became vacant; and
      (5)   A plan for occupancy of the property.
   (C)   The owner shall notify the city of any changes in information supplied
as part of the vacant building registration within 30 days of the change.
Removal of the property from the vacant property registration database shall
occur when the property is no longer vacant.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 5-9-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
§ 3-421 VACANT BUILDINGS; BUILDING FEES.
   (A)   The vacant property registration fee shall be $250 due and payable 180
days after initial registration of the vacant property pursuant to this section
or 360 days after the property becomes vacant, whichever is sooner.
   (B)   (1)   Supplemental registration fees at intervals every six months
thereafter shall be due for as long as the property remains on the vacant
property registration database. The supplemental registration fees shall be not
more than double the previous fee amount, with a maximum supplemental
registration fee of ten times the initial registration fee amount.
      (2)   Subject to these limitations, the supplemental registration fees
may be adopted by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   A subsequent owner or owners of property subject to §§
3-418 through
3-425 will assume the obligations of the previous owner or owners.
   (D)   Registration fees are refundable to the payor for the year preceding
the date on which the property is no longer vacant.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 5-9-2022; Res. 2022-2, passed 8-8-2022; Res. 2025-1,
passed 1-13-2025)
§ 3-422 VACANT BUILDINGS; EXEMPTIONS.
   The following vacant properties shall be exempt from registration and fee
requirements:
   (A)   A vacant property that is advertised in good faith for sale or lease.
Any building advertised for sale at a price not exceeding 125% of the assessed
valuation as documented by the County Assessor’s office shall be deemed to be
advertised in good faith for sale. Any building advertised for lease at an
amount of rent comparable to other comparable buildings shall be deemed to be
advertised in good faith for lease. The burden of proving this exemption shall
be on the owner and the standard of proof shall be by clear and convincing
evidence;
   (B)   A vacant property under construction or renovation pursuant to a
validly issued building permit or plan of renovation submitted to and approved
by the program administrator;
   (C)   A vacant property which is subject to ongoing divorce, probate or
estate proceedings; and
   (D)   A vacant property which is owned by the federal government, the state
or any political subdivision thereof.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 5-9-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
§ 3-423 VACANT BUILDINGS; INSPECTIONS.
   The Village Clerk or his or her designee may inspect the interior and
exterior of the vacant property upon registration and at one-year intervals
thereafter for so long as the property remains on the vacant property
registration database. A report will be provided to the owner noting code
deficiencies, if any. The owner will be required to make necessary repairs
based upon a reasonable timetable to allow the property to become occupied.
Follow-up inspections will be made by the Village Clerk or his or her designee
to ensure that repairs have been timely completed.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 5-9-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
§ 3-424 VACANT BUILDINGS; PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any provision of §§
3-418 through
3-425 or providing false information to the village shall be fined for failure
to comply in an amount of $500, with each day of violation being a separate
offense. The village may enforce the collection of vacant property registration
fees and/or fines by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
Unpaid vacant property registration fees and unpaid fines for any violation of
§§
3-418 through
3-425 shall become a lien on the applicable property upon the recording of a
notice of such lien in the County Register of Deeds office. The lien created
under this section shall be subordinate to all liens on the applicable property
recorded prior to the time the notice of such lien under this section is
recorded.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 5-9-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
§ 3-425 VACANT BUILDINGS; DUE PROCESS.
   Owners shall have the right to prior notice and to appeal adverse decisions
of the village or the program administrator. Such notice shall be sent by
certified mail to the registered owner at the address maintained in the County
Register of Deeds office, the County Treasurer’s office or the County
Assessor’s office at least ten days prior to such adverse decision.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 5-9-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
ARTICLE 5: SEXUAL PREDATORS
Section
   
3-501   Definitions
   
3-502   Residency restrictions
   
3-503   Exceptions
§ 3-501 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act, being Neb. RS 71-1908 et seq.
   RESIDE. To sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include more than one
location and may be mobile or transitory.
   RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives or dwells, which may
include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in Neb.
RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to the
Sex Offender Registration Act, being Neb. RS 29-4001 et seq.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual required to register under the Sex Offender
Registration Act, who has committed an aggravated offense as defined in Neb. RS
29-4001.01 and who has victimized a person 18 years of age or younger.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 5-8-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 29-4016
§ 3-502 RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any sexual predator to reside within 500 feet from a
school or child care facility. For purposes of determining the minimum distance
separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight line from
the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer boundary line of
the school or child care facility.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 5-8-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 29-4017
§ 3-503 EXCEPTIONS.
   This article shall not apply to a sexual predator who resides within a
prison or correctional or treatment facility operated by the state or a
political subdivision; established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not
moved from that residence; or established a residence after July 1, 2006, and
the school or child care facility triggering the restriction was established
after the initial date of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 5-8-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 29-4017
ARTICLE 6: PENAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
3-601   Violation; penalty
   
3-602   Abatement of nuisance
§ 3-601 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
§ 3-602 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the village may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same in the manner provided
by law. Whenever in any action it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722)
CHAPTER 4: TRAFFIC CODE
   Article
      
1.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
2.   PARKING
      
3.   BICYCLES AND MINI-BIKES
      
4.   MOPEDS AND MOTORCYCLES
      
5.   SNOWMOBILES, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES AND LOW-SPEED
VEHICLES
      
6.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
7.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
4-101   Definitions
   
4-102   Rules of the Road incorporated by reference
   
4-103   Emergency regulations
   
4-104   Police; enforcement
   
4-105   Police; refusal to obey
   
4-106   Police; traffic officers
   
4-107   Regulation by Village Board
   
4-108   Truck routes
   
4-109   Snow routes; designation
   
4-110   School zones
   
4-111   Signs, traffic control and surveillance devices; defacing or
interfering with
   
4-112   Signs; unauthorized display
   
4-113   Stop signs; generally
   
4-114   Crossing sidewalks
   
4-115   Unnecessary stopping
   
4-116   Speed limits
   
4-117   Speed; electronic detector
   
4-118   Racing
   
4-119   Careless driving
   
4-120   Reckless driving
   
4-121   Willful reckless driving
   
4-122   Negligent driving
   
4-123   Right-of-way; generally
   
4-124   Right-of-way; emergency vehicles
   
4-125   Turning; generally; signal
   
4-126   Turning; “U” turns
   
4-127   Backing
   
4-128   Driving abreast
   
4-129   Following; fire apparatus
   
4-130   Following; distance
   
4-131   Overloading
   
4-132   Riding outside vehicle
   
4-133   Conveyances; clinging to motor vehicles
   
4-134   Muffler
   
4-135   Driving in sidewalk space
   
4-136   Removal of debris
   
4-137   Unnecessary noise
   
4-138   Exhibition driving
   
4-139   License plates
   
4-140   Engine brakes
   
4-141   Loads; projecting
   
4-142   Loads; contents; requirements
§ 4-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such Fire Department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles, and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as
are designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when,
within any 600 feet along such highway, there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations or public buildings which occupy at least 300 feet
of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices” adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled
and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Village Marshal or other chief law enforcement official,
any village police officer or any other person authorized to enforce village
ordinances. With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also
include any person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two
or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
Board of Trustees as a school crossing zone through the use of a sign or
traffic control device as specified by the Board in conformity with the Manual,
but does not include any area of a freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at
the location of the first sign or traffic control device identifying the school
crossing zone and continues until a sign or traffic control device indicates
that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. That part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed
for the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, and vehicles and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or other device not
inconsistent with the state’s Rules of the Road placed or erected by authority
of the Board of Trustees or any official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the state’s Rules of
the Road, Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., or of any law, ordinance, order, rule or
regulation regulating traffic which is not otherwise declared to be a
misdemeanor or a felony or, in this chapter, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
§ 4-102 RULES OF THE ROAD; INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The State Rules of the Road, together with all subsequent amendments
thereto, as adopted by the state relating to traffic regulations, are
incorporated by reference into this section and made a part of this article as
though spread at large herein, except those provisions in conflict with this
article when the Village Board has the authority to alter such regulations.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132
§ 4-103 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Chairperson of the Village Board is hereby empowered to make and enforce
temporary traffic regulations to cover emergencies.
§ 4-104 POLICE; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   All peace officers are hereby specifically directed and authorized,
and it shall be deemed and considered a part of the official duties of each of
such officers to enforce the provisions, of the state’s Rules of the Road, Neb.
RS 60-601 et seq., and this chapter, including the specific enforcement of
maximum speed limits, and any other state or village law regulating the
operation of vehicles or the use of the highways.
   (B)   To perform the official duties imposed by this section, peace officers
shall have the power:
      (1)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Operator’s License Act, Neb. RS 60-462 et seq., or this chapter or of any other
law regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways, if and
when designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (2)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any provision of the laws of this state relating
to misdemeanors or felonies, or of similar village ordinances, if and when
designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (3)   At all times to direct all traffic in conformity with law or, in
the event of a fire or other emergency, or in order to expedite traffic or
ensure safety, to direct traffic as conditions may require;
      (4)   When in uniform, to require the driver of a vehicle to stop and
exhibit his or her operator’s license and registration certificate issued for
the vehicle and submit to an inspection of such vehicle and the license plates
and registration certificate for the vehicle and to require the driver of a
motor vehicle to present the vehicle within five days for correction of any
defects revealed by such motor vehicle inspection as may lead the inspecting
officer to reasonably believe that such motor vehicle is being operated in
violation of the statutes of this state, the rules and regulations of the
Director of Motor Vehicles or any village ordinance or regulation;
      (5)   To inspect any vehicle of a type required to be registered
according to law in any public garage or repair shop or in any place where such
a vehicle is held for sale or wrecking;
      (6)   To serve warrants relating to the enforcement of the laws
regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways; and
      (7)   To investigate traffic accidents for the purpose of carrying on a
study of traffic accidents and enforcing motor vehicle and highway safety laws.
(Neb. RS 60-683)
§ 4-105 POLICE; REFUSAL TO OBEY.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly fails or refuses to obey any lawful order of
any peace officer who is controlling or directing traffic shall be guilty of a
traffic infraction.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly fails to obey any lawful order of a peace
officer shall be guilty of an offense whenever such order is given in
furtherance of the apprehension of a person who has violated the state’s Rules
of the Road, Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., or this chapter or of a person whom such
officer reasonably believes has violated the Rules or this chapter.
(Neb. RS 60-6,110)
§ 4-106 POLICE; TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees or the village police may at any time
detail officers, to be known as “traffic officers,” at street intersections.
      (2)   All traffic officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate
and control traffic at the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall
be their duty to direct the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and
accidents.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any order or signal of
any such traffic officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or signal
device that may have been placed at any such intersection.
§ 4-107 REGULATION BY VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   The Village Board may by resolution mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable, provide for one-way travel
in any street or alley, designate any street or portion thereof as a snow route
and establish and maintain crosswalks
   (B)   The Village Board may by resolution provide for the placing of stop
signs or other signs, signals, standards or mechanical devices in any street or
alley under the village’s jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating or
prohibiting traffic thereon.
   (C)   Such resolutions shall describe the portion of the street or alley
wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the regulation or
prohibition; the location where such sign, signal, standard or mechanical
device shall be placed; and the hours when such regulation or prohibition shall
be effective.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,119 through 60-6,121
§ 4-108 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The Village Board may by resolution designate certain streets in the village
that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for persons operating
such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated for trucks, unless
to pick up or deliver goods, wares or merchandise, and in that event, the
operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as soon as possible in
traveling through or about the village. The Village Board shall cause notices
to be posted or shall erect signs indicating the streets so designated as truck
routes.
(Neb. RS 60-681)
§ 4-109 SNOW ROUTES; DESIGNATION.
   The Village Board may by resolution designate any street or portion thereof
as a snow route and shall provide for appropriate signs or markings when such
street has been so designated.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
§ 4-110 SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing
premises on which school buildings are located and which are used for school
purposes, during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the opening or closing hours, to drive such vehicle in excess of 15 mph
unless otherwise posted past such premises.
   (B)   Such driver shall stop at all stop signs located at or near such
school premises, and it shall be unlawful for such driver to make a “U” turn at
any intersection where such stop signs are located at or near such school
premises.
(Neb. RS 60-6,190)
 § 4-111 SIGNS, TRAFFIC CONTROL AND SURVEILLANCE DEVICES; DEFACING OR
INTERFERING WITH.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any traffic control device, railroad sign
or signal, or part of such a device, sign or signal.
(Neb. RS 60-6,129)
§ 4-112 SIGNS; UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon or in
view of any street any unofficial sign, signal or device which purports to be,
is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which
attempts to direct the movement of traffic or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official sign or signal.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or device is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance, and any police officer is hereby empowered to remove the
same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Neb. RS 60-6,127)
§ 4-113 STOP SIGNS; GENERALLY.
   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop sign
erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed in §
4-107, cause such vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or
crossing any street, highway or railroad crossing. The vehicle operator shall
stop at a marked stop line or, if there is no stop line, before entering the
crosswalk but if neither is indicated, then as near the right-of-way line of
the intersecting roadway as possible.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,119 through 60-6,121
§ 4-114 CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, private road
or building shall stop such vehicle immediately before driving onto a sidewalk
and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian approaching on any sidewalk.
Before entering the highway, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles approaching on such highway.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle entering an alley, building, private road or
driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian approaching on any
sidewalk.
(Neb. RS 60-6,149)
§ 4-115 UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or in an alley other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop
is necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic control devices
and regulations or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other
vehicles.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,164 and 60-6,166
§ 4-116 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street,
alley or other place at a rate of speed greater than 25 mph within the
residential district and 20 mph within the Business District, unless a
different rate of speed is specifically permitted by ordinance. In no instance
shall a person drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions. Where a different maximum speed is
set by ordinance, appropriate signs shall be posted.
   (B)   Speed limit schedules.
 
Location              Specifications        Speed Limit Requirements
                                                        This speed limit shall
                                                        be posted immediately
                                                        north of the southern
                                                        boundary of the
516 Avenue            In both directions    35 mph      corporate limits of the
                                                        village and immediately
                                                        south of the northern
                                                        boundary of the
                                                        corporate limits of the
                                                        village on 516 Avenue
                      The corporate limits
U.S. Highway 275      run from the west
within the corporate  limits 420 feet west  50 mph
limits of the village of Iowa Street to the
                      east limits at River
                      Road
 
(Ord. 2023-5, passed 7-10-2023; Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-10-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,186 and 60-6,190
§ 4-117 SPEED; ELECTRONIC DETECTOR.
   (A)   The speed of any motor vehicle within the village may be determined by
the use of radio microwaves or other electronic device. The results of such
determinations shall be accepted as prima facie evidence of the speed of such
motor vehicle in any court or legal proceedings where the speed of the motor
vehicle is at issue.
   (B)   The driver of any such motor vehicle may be arrested without a warrant
under the authority herein granted if the arresting officer is in uniform or
displays his or her badge of authority; provided, that such officer shall have
observed the recording of the speed of such motor vehicle by the radio
microwaves or other electronic device or had received a radio message from the
officer who observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded by the radio
microwaves or other electronic device. In the event of an arrest based on such
a message, such radio message must have been dispatched immediately after the
speed of the motor vehicle was recorded and must include a description of the
vehicle and the recorded speed.
(Neb. RS 60-6,192)
§ 4-118 RACING.
   No person shall drive any vehicle in any race, speed competition or contest,
drag race or acceleration contest, test of physical endurance or exhibition of
speed or acceleration or for the purpose of making a speed record. No person
shall in any manner participate in any such race, competition, contest, test or
exhibition.
(Neb. RS 60-6,195)
§ 4-119 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle in the village carelessly or without
due caution so as to endanger a person or property shall be guilty of careless
driving.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,212 and 60-4,182
§ 4-120 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate an
indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of reckless driving and as such shall be punished as
provided by statute.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,213, 60-6,215 and 60-4,182
§ 4-121 WILLFUL RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
willful disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be deemed to be
guilty of willful reckless driving.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,214, 60-6,216 and 60-4,182
§ 4-122 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle in such a manner as to indicate the
absence of care, prudence and forethought as duty requires should be exercised
under the circumstances or who drives any vehicle which is engaged in a race
upon a street is guilty of negligent driving.
(Neb. RS 60-4,182)
§ 4-123 RIGHT-OF-WAY; GENERALLY.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection at approximately
the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and
there is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a village police
officer stationed at the intersection.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-of-way to
a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly marked crosswalk or at any
regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where the movement of traffic
is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic direction devices. Every
pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a pedestrian crossing,
crosswalk or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles upon the
street.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from or entering an alley, building,
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
approaching on any sidewalk and all vehicles approaching on such streets.
(Neb. RS 60-6,146 through 60-6,154)
§ 4-124 RIGHT-OF-WAY; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle which
makes use of proper audible or visual signals.
      (1)   The driver of any other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as possible to
the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway or to either edge or curb of a one-
way roadway, clear of any intersection, and shall stop and remain in such
position until such emergency vehicle passes unless otherwise directed by any
peace officer.
      (2)   Any pedestrian using such roadway shall yield the right-of-way
until such emergency vehicle passes unless otherwise directed by any peace
officer.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons
using the highway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,151)
§ 4-125 TURNING; GENERALLY; SIGNAL.
   (A)   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall
approach such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right-hand
side of the highway and must turn the corner as near the right-hand curb as
possible to keep between the curb to the right and the center of the
intersection of the two streets.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left shall
approach such center line of the highway and in turning shall pass as near as
possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable
to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION
shall mean the meeting point of the medial lines of the highways intersecting
one another.
   (C)   A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given
continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle
before turning.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,159 and 60-6,161
§ 4-126 TURNING; “U” TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction at any
intersection where an automatic signal is in operation or where a sign is
posted indicating that “U” turns are prohibited.
(Neb. RS 60-6,160)
§ 4-127 BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the village
streets except to park in or to remove the vehicle from a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway or to back to the curb for
unloading where such unloading is permitted; provided, that a vehicle shall be
backed only when such movement can be made in safety, and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed one and one-half lengths of the vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,169)
§ 4-128 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing or when
traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; provided, that motorcycles may be
driven no more than two abreast in a single lane.
(Neb. RS 60-6,139)
§ 4-129 FOLLOWING; FIRE APPARATUS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in
response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such
vehicle within the block when fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm.
(Neb. RS 60-6,183)
§ 4-130 FOLLOWING; DISTANCE.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of the vehicles and
the traffic and condition of the street.
(Neb. RS 60-6,140)
§ 4-131 OVERLOADING.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when it is so loaded as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere
with the driver’s control over such vehicle or when there are more than three
persons in the front seat. No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such a
position as to interfere with the driver’s control over such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,179)
§ 4-132 RIDING OUTSIDE VEHICLE.
   No person shall permit any other person to ride on the running board, hood,
top or fenders of any motor vehicle, nor shall any person ride on the running
board, hood, top or fenders of any motor vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-180)
§ 4-133 CONVEYANCES; CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis or toy
vehicle shall attach himself or herself or said conveyance to any vehicle upon
a roadway, and it shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to suffer or
permit any person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis
or toy vehicle to cling or attach himself or herself or his or her conveyance
to such vehicle driven and operated by him or her.
(Neb. RS 60-6,316)
§ 4-134 MUFFLER.
   Every motor vehicle operated within this village shall be equipped with a
muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise or smoke.
It shall be unlawful to use a muffler cut-out on any motor vehicle upon any
streets; provided, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to
authorized emergency vehicles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,286)
§ 4-135 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No motor vehicle shall be driven or ridden within any sidewalk space, except
a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,178)
§ 4-136 REMOVAL OF DEBRIS.
   Any person who removes a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other injurious substance deposited on the highway from
such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 39-311)
§ 4-137 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   No person shall drive, use, operate, park or stop any motor vehicle in such
a manner as to cause unnecessary noise.
§ 4-138 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle, meaning any self-propelled vehicle,
upon streets or alleys within the village limits or upon property owned by the
village in such a manner as to cause or create unnecessary engine noise,
squealing of tires, rear skidding, sliding or swaying of such motor vehicle or
possible acceleration of speed of said motor vehicle shall be guilty of
exhibition driving.
§ 4-139 LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   The license plates required on every motor vehicle by laws of the
state or of any other state while such vehicle is operated within the corporate
limits shall be kept clear and free from grease, dust or other blurring matter
so they will be plainly visible at all times.
   (B)   Said plates shall be attached in such manner as to be clearly readable
at a distance of 100 feet, and under no circumstances shall they be obstructed
by any portion of the vehicle.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-324 and 60-325
§ 4-140 ENGINE BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the village limits to make or
cause to be made loud or disturbing noises with any mechanical device operated
by compressed air and used for purposes of assisted braking on any motor
vehicle; provided, however, that it shall be permitted to use engine brakes in
an emergency situation. Proper notices shall be posted by the village notifying
the public of such prohibition.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 5-14-2012)
§ 4-141 LOADS; PROJECTING.
   When any vehicle shall be loaded in such a manner that any portion of the
load extends more than four feet beyond the rear of the bed or the body of such
vehicle, a red flag of not less than 12 inches both in length and width shall
be carried by day and a red light after sunset at the extreme rear end of such
load.
(Neb. RS 60-6,243)
§ 4-142 LOADS; CONTENTS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent its contents from dropping, sifting,
leaking or otherwise escaping from the vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall transport any sand, gravel, rock less than two inches
in diameter or refuse in any vehicle on any hard-surfaced state highway if such
material protrudes above the sides of that part of the vehicle in which it is
being transported unless such material is enclosed or completely covered with
canvas or similar covering.
   (C)   No person shall drive or move a motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer
upon any highway unless the cargo or contents carried by the motor vehicle,
trailer or semitrailer are properly distributed and adequately secured to
prevent the falling of cargo or contents from the vehicle. The tailgate, doors,
tarpaulins and any other equipment used in the operation of the motor vehicle,
trailer or semitrailer or in the distributing or securing of the cargo or
contents carried by the motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer shall be secured
to prevent cargo or contents falling from the vehicle. The means of securement
to the motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer must be either tiedowns and
tiedown assemblies of adequate strength or sides, sideboards or stakes and a
rear endgate, endboard or stakes strong enough and high enough to assure that
cargo or contents will not fall from the vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,304)
ARTICLE 2: PARKING
Section
   
4-201   Generally
   
4-202   Regulation by Village Board
   
4-203   Maximum time limit
   
4-204   Truck parking areas; regulations
   
4-205   Curbs painted
   
4-206   Obstructing traffic
   
4-207   Street intersections
   
4-208   Alleys; obstruction; loading and unloading
   
4-209   Unattended vehicles
   
4-210   License plates required
   
4-211   Obstructing private driveways
   
4-212   Overhanging adjacent property
   
4-213   Parking in sidewalk space
   
4-214   Business District; center of street or traffic lane
   
4-215   Emergency vehicles; exception
   
4-216   Fire hydrants and station
   
4-217   Snow removal; street maintenance or cleaning
   
4-218   Display or repair of vehicle
   
4-219   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
§ 4-201 GENERALLY.
   No person shall park any vehicle or approach the curb with a vehicle except
when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles when parked shall stand
parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway in such manner as
to have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway
and so as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so parked and any
other parked vehicles, except where the Village Board designates that vehicles
shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front right wheel at the curb or
edge of the roadway. Where stalls are designated either on the curb or
pavement, vehicles shall be parked within such stalls.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,167
§ 4-202 REGULATION BY VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Board may by resolution set aside any street, alley,
public way or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class
of vehicle shall be prohibited or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited.
      (2)   No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way or portion thereof
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   The Village Board may by resolution designate any street or portion
thereof where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167)
   (C)   The Village Board may by resolution entirely prohibit or fix a time
limit for the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets or
district designated by such resolution; and the parking or stopping of any
vehicle in any such street, streets or district, for a period of time longer
than fixed in such resolution shall constitute a violation of this article.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
§ 4-203 MAXIMUM TIME LIMIT.
   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street for over five consecutive
days is unlawful, except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
§ 4-204 TRUCK PARKING AREAS; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Village Board may by resolution provide truck parking areas
adjoining or adjacent to the Business District, and when such parking areas are
provided, it shall be the duty of all truck operators to use such parking areas
for all parking purposes.
   (B)   No truck exceeding a gross weight of 15,000 pounds shall be parked or
stopped for any period of time within the limits of any street outside the
Business District except for the purpose of loading or unloading the cargo
thereof in the ordinary course of business except in the area or areas provided
for by the Village Board by resolution.
§ 4-205 CURBS PAINTED.
   (A)   The curb space within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant
shall be painted to indicate that parking is prohibited in such area.
   (B)   If the Board adopts a resolution regulating or prohibiting the parking
or stopping of vehicles at the curb on highways in front of certain facilities
or at certain locations, the curbs adjacent to any such facility or location
shall be painted in such manner as directed by the Board to indicate such
regulation or prohibition.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Board or its agent to cause the curb space
to be painted and to keep the same painted as provided in this article or as
specified by the Board. The marking or designating of portions of highways
where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall be done only by
the village through its proper officers at the direction of the Board. No
person shall paint the curb of any highway or in any manner set aside, or
attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in, any highway or part thereof,
except at such places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by the
provisions of this article or by a resolution adopted by the Board.
§ 4-206 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
§ 4-207 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall park a vehicle or leave a vehicle standing for any
purpose, except momentarily to load or discharge passengers, within 25 feet of
the intersection of curb lines or, if none, then within 15 feet of the
intersection of property lines, or where the curb lines are painted red or
another color specified by the Board of Trustees to indicate such prohibition.
§ 4-208 ALLEYS; OBSTRUCTION; LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in an alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
§ 4-209 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first stopping the motor of
such vehicle, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition and
effectively setting the brakes thereon and, when standing upon any roadway,
turning the front wheels of such vehicle to the curb or side of such roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,168)
 
§ 4-210 LICENSE PLATES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle parked or left standing upon any street, alley, public
way or public property shall have license plates attached thereto which are
issued for the vehicle to which said license plates are attached and are
registered in the name of the owner of the vehicle in accordance with the laws
of the state or of the state wherein the license is issued.
   (B)   If any vehicle is found upon any street or alley in violation of any
of the provisions of this article regulating the stopping, standing or parking
of vehicles, and the identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or
person in whose name such vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie
responsible for such violation.
§ 4-211 OBSTRUCTING PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to
stop or park any vehicle so as to obstruct a private driveway in any manner,
which includes stopping or parking any vehicle within five feet of the outer
portion of a curb cut on a private driveway; provided, however, that in the
congested district a vehicle may be parked at the entrance to a driveway
providing that ingress and egress to a business conducted on the adjacent
premises, only between the period of time after the business served by such
driveway has been closed for the day and opening of business on the following
day, unless prohibited by signs posted by the Village Board.
§ 4-212 OVERHANGING ADJACENT PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, place or cause to be parked or
placed any motor vehicle or other vehicle on any private property in such a
manner that the vehicle overhangs the street, including that space between the
curb line and the lot line, or in such a manner that the vehicle overhangs
adjacent property.
§ 4-213 PARKING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, place or cause to be parked or
placed any motor vehicle or other vehicle upon any part of the sidewalk space
or that space between the curb line and the lot line.
§ 4-214 BUSINESS DISTRICT; CENTER OF STREET OR TRAFFIC LANE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except in case of accident or
emergency, to park any vehicle in the center of any street or in the traffic
lane of any street which is within the above-designated Business District.
§ 4-215 EMERGENCY VEHICLES; EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this article regulating the movement, parking and standing
of vehicles shall not apply to any authorized emergency vehicle while the
driver of such vehicle is operating the same in an emergency.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114)
§ 4-216 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATION.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parked:
      (1)   Within 15 feet in either direction of any fire hydrant;
      (2)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station; or
      (3)   On the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within 75 feet of such entrance when properly signposted.
   (B)   Any vehicle or material found as an obstruction may be immediately
removed by the Fire Chief or any member of the Fire Department at the risk,
cost and expense of the owner or claimant.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166)
§ 4-217 SNOW REMOVAL; STREET MAINTENANCE OR CLEANING.
   The Village Board shall have the power to order any street, alley or portion
thereof vacated for weather emergencies and street maintenance or street
cleaning. Notice shall be given by personally notifying the owner or operator
of a vehicle parked on such street or alley or by posting appropriate signs
along such streets or alleys. Any person parking a vehicle in violation of this
section shall be subject to the penalties provided in this chapter and such
vehicle may be removed and parked under the supervision of village personnel to
a suitable nearby location without further notice to the owner or operator of
such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 17-557)
§ 4-218 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public place
within the village any vehicle displayed for sale. Except when necessary due to
a breakdown or other emergency, no person shall adjust or repair, or race the
motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle while standing on the highways of the
village. No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
§ 4-219 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer, or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the village and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior
to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled
to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165)
ARTICLE 3: BICYCLES AND MINI-BIKES
Section
   
4-301   Bicycles; prohibited acts
   
4-302   Bicycles; operation
   
4-303   Bicycles; equipment
   
4-304   Mini-bikes; unlawful operation
   
4-305   Mini-bikes; emergencies and parades
   
4-306   Mini-bikes; public lands
§ 4-301 BICYCLES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Any person who rides a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   Any person who rides a bicycle shall not remove his or her feet from
the pedals and shall have at least one hand on the handlebars at all times.
   (C)   Any person who operates a bicycle shall not carry any package, bundle
or article which prevents such operator from keeping at least one hand upon the
handlebars.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Neb. RS 60-6,315)
§ 4-302 BICYCLES; OPERATION.
   (A)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway at less than the
normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under conditions then
existing shall ride as near to the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the
roadway as practicable except when:
      (1)   Overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
      (2)   Preparing for a left turn onto a private road or driveway or at an
intersection;
      (3)   Reasonably necessary to avoid conditions that make it unsafe to
continue along the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the roadway, including
fixed or moving objects, stopped or moving vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals or surface hazards;
      (4)   Riding upon a lane of substandard width which is too narrow for a
bicycle and a vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane; or
      (5)   Lawfully operating a bicycle on the paved shoulders of a highway
included in the state highway system, as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,142. Any
person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway with a posted speed limit of 35
mph or less on which traffic is restricted to one direction of movement and
which has two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near to the left-hand
curb or left-hand edge of the roadway as practicable. Whenever a person
operating a bicycle leaves the roadway to ride on the paved shoulder or leaves
the paved shoulder to enter the roadway, the person shall clearly signal his or
her intention and yield the right-of-way to all other vehicles.
   (B)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a highway shall not ride more
than single file except on paths or parts of highways set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles.
   (C)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,142, whenever a usable path for
bicycles has been provided adjacent to a highway, a person operating a bicycle
shall use such path and shall not use such highway.
   (D)   A local authority may by ordinance further regulate the operation of
bicycles and may provide for the registration and inspection of bicycles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,317)
§ 4-303 BICYCLES; EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   When in use at nighttime, a bicycle shall be equipped with a light
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front on a clear night and
with a red reflector on the rear of a type which is approved by the Department
of Motor Vehicles or a local authority and which is visible on a clear night
from all distances between 100 feet and 600 feet to the rear when directly in
front of lawful lower beams of headlights on a motor vehicle. A red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to such
red reflector.
   (B)   Any bicycle used on a highway shall be equipped with a brake or brakes
which will enable the operator to stop the bicycle within 25 feet of the point
of braking when moving at a speed of ten mph on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Neb. RS 60-6,318)
§ 4-304 MINI-BIKES; UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a mini-bike upon any street
or highway within the corporate limits of the village. For the purpose of this
article, MINI-BIKE shall mean a two-wheel motor vehicle which has a total wheel
and tire diameter of less than 14 inches, an engine-rated capacity of less than
45 cubic centimeters displacement or a seat height less than 25 inches from the
ground, or any other two-wheel motor vehicle primarily designed by the
manufacturer for off-road use only.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,347 and 60-6,352
§ 4-305 MINI-BIKES; EMERGENCIES AND PARADES.
   Mini-bikes shall be exempt from the provisions of this article during any
public emergency or while being used in parades by regularly organized units of
any recognized charitable, social, educational or community service
organization.
(Neb. RS 60-6,348)
§ 4-306 MINI-BIKES; PUBLIC LANDS.
   Mini-bikes shall be prohibited upon the public lands owned by the village
except where allowed by resolution of the Village Board.
(Neb. RS 60-678)
ARTICLE 4: MOPEDS AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
4-401   Mopeds; defined; statutory regulation
   
4-402   Mopeds; operator’s license required
   
4-403   Mopeds; traffic regulations applicable
   
4-404   Mopeds; use of traffic lanes
   
4-405   Mopeds; equipment
   
4-406   Mopeds; helmet required
   
4-407   Motorcycles; operation
   
4-408   Motorcycles; lights
   
4-409   Motorcycles; helmet required
§ 4-401 MOPEDS; DEFINED; STATUTORY REGULATION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOPED. A bicycle with fully operative pedals for propulsion by human power,
an automatic transmission and a motor with a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50
cubic centimeters, which produces no more than two brake horsepower and is
capable of propelling the bicycle at a maximum design speed of no more than 30
mph on level ground. MOPEDS, their owners and their operators shall be subject
to Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 4 but shall be exempt from the requirements of
Neb. RS Chapter 60, Articles 1, 3 and 5.
(Neb. RS 60-6,309)
§ 4-402 MOPEDS; OPERATOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a moped upon the streets, alleys or highways within
the village unless such person has a valid Class O operator’s license or a
valid school or learner’s permit.
(Neb. RS 60-6,310)
§ 4-403 MOPEDS; TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   Any person who rides a moped upon a roadway shall have all the rights and
shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a motor
vehicle under the State Rules of the Road except for special moped regulations
in the Rules and except for those provisions of the Rules which by their nature
can have no application. Such regulations applicable to mopeds shall apply
whenever a moped is operated upon any street, alley or highway within the
village or upon any path set aside by the Department of Roads or the village
for the use of mopeds. Notwithstanding any established maximum speed limits in
excess of 25 mph, no person shall operate any moped at a speed in excess of 30
mph.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,311 and 60-6,313
§ 4-404 MOPEDS; USE OF TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   A moped shall be entitled to full use of a traffic lane of any street
or highway with an authorized speed limit of 45 mph or less, and no vehicle
shall be operated in such a manner as to deprive any moped of the full use of
such lane. This section shall not apply to mopeds operated two abreast in a
single lane.
   (B)   No person shall operate a moped between lanes of traffic or between
adjacent lines or rows of vehicles. Mopeds shall not be operated more than two
abreast in a single lane. Any person who operates a moped on a roadway with an
authorized speed limit of more than 45 mph shall ride as near to the right side
of the roadway as practicable and shall not ride more than single file.
(Neb. RS 60-6,313)
 
§ 4-405 MOPEDS; EQUIPMENT.
   Any moped which carries a passenger shall be equipped with footrests for
such passenger. No person shall operate any moped with handlebars more than 15
inches above the mounting point of the handlebars.
(Neb. RS 60-6,312)
§ 4-406 MOPEDS; HELMET REQUIRED.
   (A)   A person shall not operate or be a passenger on a moped or motorcycle
on any highway, as defined in state statutes, unless such person is wearing a
protective helmet of the type and design manufactured for use by operators of
such vehicles and unless such helmet is secured properly on his or her head
with a chin strap while the vehicle is in motion.
   (B)   All such protective helmets shall be designed to reduce injuries to
the user resulting from head impacts and shall be designed to protect the user
by remaining on the user’s head, deflecting blows, resisting penetration and
spreading the force of impact. Each such helmet shall consist of lining,
padding, visor and chin strap and shall meet or exceed the standards
established in the United States Department of Transportation’s Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218, 49 C.F.R. § 571.218, for motorcycle helmets.
(Ord. 205, passed 10-3-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,279
§ 4-407 MOTORCYCLES; OPERATION.
   (A)   Any person who operates a motorcycle shall have all of the rights and
shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of any other
vehicle under this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who operates a motorcycle shall ride only upon a permanent,
regular seat attached thereto and shall not carry any other person nor shall
any other person ride on a motorcycle unless such motorcycle is designed to
carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride upon the
permanent, regular seat if designed for two persons or upon another seat firmly
attached to the motorcycle to the rear or side of the operator.
   (C)   Any person shall ride upon a motorcycle only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motorcycle while carrying any package,
bundle or other article which prevents him or her from keeping both hands on
the handlebars.
   (E)   No operator shall carry any person nor shall any person ride in a
position that will interfere with the operation or control of the motorcycle or
the view of the operator.
   (F)   A motorcycle shall be entitled to full use of a traffic lane of any
highway, and no vehicle shall be driven in such a manner as to deprive any
motorcycle of the full use of such lane. This division (F) shall not apply to
motorcycles operated two abreast in a single lane.
   (G)   The operator of a motorcycle shall not overtake and pass in the same
lane occupied by the vehicle being overtaken.
   (H)   No person shall operate a motorcycle between lanes of traffic or
between adjacent lines or rows of vehicles.
   (I)   Motorcycles shall not be operated more than two abreast in a single
lane.
   (J)   Divisions (G) and (H) above shall not apply to police officers in the
performance of their official duties.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,307 and 60-6,308
§ 4-408 MOTORCYCLES; LIGHTS.
   No person shall ride a motorcycle upon the streets, alleys or highways from
one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise unless the same
shall be equipped with at least one and not more than two headlights, plainly
visible from the front; and a light on the rear exhibiting a red light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
rear thereof; provided, that said lights shall comply with the requirements and
limitations of state statutes.
(Neb. RS 60-6,219)
§ 4-409 MOTORCYCLES; HELMET REQUIRED.
   A person shall not operate or be a passenger on a motorcycle or moped on any
highway, as defined in state statutes, unless such person is wearing a
protective helmet as provided in § 4-406.
ARTICLE 5: SNOWMOBILES, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES
AND LOW-SPEED VEHICLES
Section
   
4-501   Snowmobiles; equipment
   
4-502   Snowmobiles; public lands
   
4-503   Snowmobiles; unlawful acts
   
4-504   Snowmobiles; enforcement
   
4-505   All-terrain and utility-type vehicles; definitions
   
4-506   All-terrain and utility-type vehicles; operation
   
4-507   Low-speed vehicles
§ 4-501 SNOWMOBILES; EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every snowmobile operated within the village shall be registered with
the state as required by law. No snowmobile shall be operated upon a public
street or highway unless it is equipped with at least one headlamp, one
taillamp, reflector material of a minimum area of 16 square inches mounted on
each side forward of the handle bars and with brakes as prescribed by the
Director of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   All laws applying to the operation of other motor vehicles shall apply
to snowmobiles, except those relating to required equipment and those which by
their nature have no application.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,335
§ 4-502 SNOWMOBILES; PUBLIC LANDS.
   Snowmobiles shall be prohibited from operation on the public lands owned by
the village, except where allowed by resolution of the Village Board.
(Neb. RS 60-6,338)
§ 4-503 SNOWMOBILES; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile
in the following unsafe or harassing ways:
      (1)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under the
surrounding circumstances;
      (2)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger
person or property;
      (3)   While under the influence of alcoholic liquor or any drug;
      (4)   Without a lighted headlight and taillight when such would be
required by conditions;
      (5)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or
destroys growing stock; and
      (6)   Upon any private lands without first having obtained permission of
the owner, lessee or operator of such lands.
   (B)   It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to allow a snowmobile,
either owned or operated by that person, to be operated within the congested
area of the village unless weather conditions are such that it provides the
only practicable method of safe vehicular travel or said snowmobile is engaged
in responding to an emergency.
(Neb. RS 60-6,337)
§ 4-504 SNOWMOBILES; ENFORCEMENT.
   Any law enforcement officer, including a conservation officer, may enforce
the provisions relating to snowmobiles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,343)
§ 4-505 ALL-TERRAIN AND UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section and § 4-506, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV). Any motorized off-highway vehicle which: is 50
inches or less in width; has a dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less; travels on
three or more non-highway tires; is designed for operator use only with no
passengers or is specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the
operator and one passenger; has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by
the operator; and has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering
control.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE (UTV). Any motorized off-highway vehicle which: is 74
inches in width or less; is not more than 180 inches in length, including the
bumper; has a dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less; travels on four or more non-
highway tires; and is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type
seating designed for at least two people to sit side-by-side. UTILITY-TYPE
VEHICLE does not include golf carts or low-speed vehicles.
(Ord. 2007-3, passed 10-15-2007)
Statutory reference:
   State definitions, see Neb. RS 60-624 and 60-6,355
§ 4-506 ALL-TERRAIN AND UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES; OPERATION.
   (A)   An ATV and a UTV may be operated on streets and highways within the
corporate limits of the village only if the operator and the vehicle comply
with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   An ATV or UTV may be operated only between the hours of sunrise and
sunset and shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 30 mph. When operating
an ATV or UTV as authorized herein, the headlight and taillight of the vehicle
shall be on, and it shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends
not less than five feet above ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. The
bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less than
30 square inches and shall be DayGlo in color.
    (C)   Any person operating an ATV or UTV as authorized herein shall have:
      (1)   A valid Class O operator’s license or a farm permit as provided in
Neb. RS 60-4,126; and
      (2)   Liability insurance coverage for the ATV or UTV while being
operated on a street or highway. The person operating the vehicle shall provide
proof of such insurance coverage to any peace officer requesting such proof
within five days of such a request.
   (D)   ATVs and UTVs may be operated without complying with divisions (B) and
(C) above on streets and highways in parades which have been authorized by the
state or any department, board, commission or political subdivision of the
state.
   (E)   An ATV or a UTV shall not be operated on any controlled-access highway
with more than two marked traffic lanes, and the crossing of any controlled-
access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes shall not be permitted.
Divisions (A) through (C) above and (F) below authorize and apply to operation
of an ATV or UTV only on a street or highway other than a controlled-access
highway with more than two marked traffic lanes.
   (F)   Subject to division (E) above, the crossing of a street or highway
shall be permitted by an ATV or a UTV without complying with divisions (B) and
(C) above only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
(Ord. 2007-3, passed 10-15-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,356
§ 4-507 LOW-SPEED VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LOW-SPEED VEHICLE. A four-wheeled motor vehicle that has a speed
attainable in one mile of more than 20 mph and not more than 25 mph on a paved,
level surface; that has a gross vehicle weight rating less than 3,000 pounds;
and that complies with 49 C.F.R. part 571, as such part existed on January 1,
2011.
   (B)   A low-speed vehicle may be operated on any highway on which the speed
limit is not more than 35 mph and may cross a highway on which the speed limit
is more than 35 mph. Nothing in this section shall prevent the village from
adopting more stringent ordinances governing low-speed vehicle operation if the
Village Board determines that such ordinances are necessary in the interest of
public safety. Any person operating a low-speed vehicle as authorized under
this section shall have a valid Class O operator’s license and shall have
liability insurance coverage for the vehicle.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-119.01, 60-336.01, 60-501 and 60-605
ARTICLE 6: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
4-601   Definitions
   
4-602   Abandonment of vehicle prohibited
   
4-603   Title; vest in local authority or state agency
   
4-604   Local authorities; powers and duties
   
4-605   Law enforcement agency; powers and duties
   
4-606   Custody; who entitled
   
4-607   Proceeds of sale; disposition
   
4-608   Liability for removal
   
4-609   Destroy, deface or remove parts; unlawful; exception; violation;
penalty
   
4-610   Costs of removal and storage; last registered owner liable
§ 4-601 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
         (a)   If left unattended with no license plates or valid “In Transit”
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act, being Neb. RS
60-301 et seq., affixed thereto for more than six hours on any public property;
         (b)   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
         (c)   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
         (d)   If left unattended for more than seven days on private property
if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission of the
owner is terminated;
         (e)   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered
owner and lienholder under § 4-605; or
         (f)   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
      (2)   An all-terrain vehicle or mini-bike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
         (a)   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
         (b)   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
         (c)   If left unattended for more than seven days on private property
if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission of the
owner is terminated;
         (d)   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered
owner and lienholder under § 4-605; or
         (e)   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
      (3)   A mobile home is an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left in place on private
property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit, pursuant to an
ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of the last
registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home stating that the
mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth in
Neb. RS 60-1903.
      (4)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431 shall
be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this definition.
   MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on its
own chassis, connected to utilities and designed with or without a permanent
foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units that can
be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity, or of two
or more units separately towable but designed to be joined into one integral
unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-4603.
MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which an
affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included within
the definition of public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley or park or
other state, county or village-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
§ 4-602 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as described in
§
4-601.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
§ 4-603 TITLE; VEST IN LOCAL AUTHORITY OR STATE AGENCY.
   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license plates
of the current year or valid “In Transit” stickers issued pursuant to Neb. RS
60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
village. Any certificate of title issued under this section to the village
shall be issued at no cost to the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
§ 4-604 LOCAL AUTHORITIES; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Except for vehicles governed by §
4-603, the village shall make an inquiry concerning the last registered owner
of such vehicle as follows:
      (1)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the jurisdiction
which issued such license plates; or
      (2)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the Department
of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   The village shall notify the last registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
      (1)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
      (2)   Title will vest in the village 30 days after the date such notice
was mailed.
   (C)   If the agency described in division (A)(1) or (A)(2) above also
notifies the village that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall also be
sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall be
required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
   (D)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
village:
      (1)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle will
be sold or offered at public auction under division (B)(1) above;
      (2)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the village will
retain the vehicle; or
      (3)   If the last registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice of
such fact is received.
   (E)   (1)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division
(D) above, the village may retain for use, sell or auction the abandoned
vehicle.
      (2)   If the village has determined that the vehicle should be retained
for use, the village shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is
mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the village intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its
use and that title will vest in the village 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
§ 4-605 LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   If a village law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle for
investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it shall
send a certified letter to each of the last registered owners, if any, and
lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that the vehicle is in the
custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle is no longer needed for
law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days, the agency will dispose of
the vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to motor vehicles that are subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
   (C)   (1)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner
of a motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this
section unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle
when it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related
to the offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into
custody.
      (2)   If a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle
when it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is
not convicted, the registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the
storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
§ 4-606 CUSTODY; WHO ENTITLED.
   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in §
4-601(1)(e) or (2)(d) to be removed from public property in this village, the
state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state agency
caused an abandoned vehicle described in §
4-601(1)(a), (1)(b), (1)(c) or (1)(d) or (2)(a), (2)(b) or (2)(c) to be removed
from public property in this village, the state agency shall deliver the
vehicle to the village, which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
§ 4-607 PROCEEDS OF SALE; DISPOSITION.
   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the village’s custody,
less any expenses incurred by the village, shall be held by the village without
interest for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle for a
period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the proceeds
shall be paid into the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
§ 4-608 LIABILITY FOR REMOVAL.
   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee, nor occupant of
the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the village,
shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs during its
removal or while in the possession of the village or its contractual agent,
while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
§ 4-609 DESTROY, DEFACE OR REMOVE PARTS; UNLAWFUL; EXCEPTION; VIOLATION;
PENALTY.
   No person other than one authorized by the village or appropriate state
agency shall destroy, deface or remove any part of a vehicle which is left
unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates affixed or
which is abandoned. Anyone violating this section shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
§ 4-610 COSTS OF REMOVAL AND STORAGE; LAST REGISTERED OWNER LIABLE.
   The last registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to the
village for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
ARTICLE 7: PENAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
4-701   Violation; penalty
§ 4-701 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
CHAPTER 5: BUSINESS AND LIQUEUR REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
2.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
3.   MOBILE FOOD VENDING UNITS
      
4.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
5-101   Definitions
   
5-102   Acquisition and possession
   
5-103   Drinking on public property; possession of open alcoholic beverage
container
   
5-104   Consumption in public places; license
   
5-105   License required
   
5-106   Village powers and duties
   
5-107   Licensee requirements
   
5-108   Location
   
5-109   Access to dwellings
   
5-110   Sanitary conditions
   
5-111   Catering licenses
   
5-112   License displayed
   
5-113   Hours of sale
   
5-114   Inspections
   
5-115   Owner of premises
   
5-116   Employer
   
5-117   Hiring minors
   
5-118   Minor’s presence
   
5-119   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
5-120   Credit sales
   
5-121   Original package
   
5-122   Conduct prohibited on licensed premises
   
5-123   Automatic license renewal
   
5-124   Protests against renewal
   
5-125   Citizen complaints
   
5-126   Form for citizen complaint
   
5-127   Complaint initiated by Board
   
5-128   Revocation of license
   
5-129   Change of premises
   
5-130   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
§ 5-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.51 shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires
a different meaning.
§ 5-102 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this article and the State Liquor Control Act, Neb.
RS 53-101 et seq.
   (B)   Nothing in this article shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this article or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making, transport and delivery of wine, cider, beer, mead,
perry or other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables, honey or
grains, or the product thereof by simple fermentation and without distillation:
         (a)    If made solely for the use of the maker and his or her family
and guests if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale; or
         (b)   If made without a permit for an exhibition, festival or tasting
competition, including exhibitions, festivals or tasting competitions that are
for nonprofit organizations such as fund-raising events, legally conducted
under the Act, if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale.
Alcoholic liquor served pursuant to this division (B)(2)(b) shall clearly be
identified as alcoholic liquor that was manufactured under an exception to the
rules and regulations of the Commission by signage, and the location of the
manufacturer shall be available upon request. Free or reduced admission to the
exhibition, festival or tasting competition shall not be considered a sale of
the alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion, on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing transactions
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06)
§ 5-103 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; POSSESSION OF OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE
CONTAINER.
   (A)   Except when the State Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08, it is
unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or
controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186(1))
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle
to possess an open alcoholic beverage container while the motor vehicle is
located in a public parking area or on any highway in this village.
   (C)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-186, it is unlawful for any person to
consume an alcoholic beverage: in a public parking area or on any highway in
this village; or inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on
any highway in this village.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Beer, ale porter, stout and other similar fermented
beverages, including sake or similar products, of any name or description
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt,
wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor; wine of not less than 0.5%
of alcohol by volume; or distilled spirits, which is that substance known as
ethyl alcohol, ethanol or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions
and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process
produced. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
      HIGHWAY. A road or street, including the entire area within the right-of-
way.
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Any bottle, can or other receptacle
that contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and is open or has a broken
seal; or the contents of which are partially removed.
      PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while
the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to
the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in such area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of such motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.08)
§ 5-104 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES; LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor in any
bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place open to the
general public except as permitted by a license issued for such premises
pursuant to the Act.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a retail licensee while lawfully
engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or buses
operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
§ 5-105 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the village unless said person
shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the State Liquor
Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06)
§ 5-106 VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Village Board is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.,
the business of all retail, craft brewery and microdistillery licensees carried
on within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receiving from the
State Liquor Control Commission an application for a new license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail or a craft brewery or microdistillery license, the
Village Board may make and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to
the granting or refusal to grant such license to the applicant.
   (C)   The Village Board, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the village, has the following powers, functions and duties with
respect to retail, craft brewery and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery and
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor issued to persons
for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the right of appeal to the
Commission;
      (2)   To enter or authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed under the State Liquor Control Act (“the Act”)
to determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted
and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation adopted by the Village Board has been or is being violated and at
such time examine the premises of such licensee in connection with such
determination;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon such complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, craft brewery and microdistillery license fees
as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same to the Village
Treasurer after the license has been delivered to the applicant;
      (5)   (a)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any
retail, craft brewery or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee, and
to hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of
its duties.
         (b)   For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the
Village Board may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in Neb. RS 53-134.04, it determines that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Act or any valid and
subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation duly enacted, adopted and
promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. Such order of cancellation or
revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days after the date of
the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission, which shall handle
the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an application in Neb. RS 53-
133; and
      (7)   (a)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the Village Board shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license.
         (b)   Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published
in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, one time not
less than seven and not more than 14 days before the time of the hearing. Such
notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all persons
desiring to give evidence before the Village Board in support of or in protest
against the issuance of such license may do so at the time of the hearing. Said
hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date of receipt of the
notice from the Commission, and, after such hearing, the Village Board shall
cause to be recorded in the minute record of its proceedings a resolution
recommending either issuance or refusal of such license.
         (c)   The Village Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class
mail, postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution, which shall state the cost of
the published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall
not void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to
issue such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs.
   (D)   When the State Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to the
Village Clerk a license issued or renewed by it, the Clerk shall deliver the
license to the licensee upon proof of payment of:
      (1)   The license fee if, by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124(5), the fee is
payable to the Village Treasurer;
      (2)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the Village
Board upon the application for license; and
      (3)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-131, 53-132 and 53-134
§ 5-107 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 28, Article 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11
or 12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another
state, except that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A)(5)
on May 18, 1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date
from retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred
prior to May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the State Liquor Control Act,
Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act, would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division (A)(10) shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division (A), an applicant whose spouse
is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the State Liquor
Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will not be
infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie evidence that
when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the applicant is also
ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie evidence shall be
overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet the
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division (A) shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
§ 5-108 LOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license
shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle
club within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home for indigent
persons or for veterans and their wives or children.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to any location within such
distance of 150 feet:
         (a)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the State Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to the making of application for a license;
         (b)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs or to restaurants, food shops or other places where the sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
         (c)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb.
RS 53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
§ 5-109 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public.
   (B)   This section does not prevent any connection between the premises and
such other portion of the building or structure which is used only by the
licensee, his or her family or personal guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178)
§ 5-110 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor
establishment that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities
shall be adequate and convenient for customers and patrons.
      (2)   The licensed premises shall be subject to any health inspections
the Board of Trustees or the village police may make or cause to be made.
   (B)   All applications for liquor licenses shall be viewed in part from the
standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report concerning the sanitary
conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the application for or
renewal of a liquor license.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 5-111 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the State Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the Board of Trustees shall
process the application in the same manner as provided in §
5-106.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may impose an occupation tax on the business of
a catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of
the Board of Trustees. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a
catering license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
§ 5-112 LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee under the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.,
shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain view in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148)
§ 5-113 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their
agents to sell at retail or dispense any alcoholic beverages within the village
limits except during the hours provided herein.
 
Alcoholic Liquors (including Beer and Wine)
Sunday through Saturday
Off sale 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
On sale  6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
 
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for property licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open containers to remain or be in
possession or control of any person for purposes of consumption between the
hours of 15 minutes after the closing hour applicable to the licensed premises
and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFF SALE. Alcoholic liquor sold at retail in the original container for
consumption off the premises of the licensed establishment.
      ON SALE. Alcoholic liquor sold by the drink for consumption on the
premises of the licensed establishment.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for other business on days and hours during which the
sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 5-114 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall cause frequent inspection to be made on
the premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found
that any such licensee is violating any provision of this article, the State
Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., or the rules and regulations of the
State Liquor Control Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the
purposes of this article or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled or
revoked after the licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her
defense.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may inspect a charter bus providing service
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public
Service Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the
consumption of alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21
years of age or older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has
stopped for the purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 5-115 OWNER OF PREMISES.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.,
or any village ordinance, that owner, agent or other person shall be deemed
guilty of a violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the
licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101)
§ 5-116 EMPLOYER.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., or
any village ordinance by any officer, director, manager or other agent or
employee of any licensee, if the act is committed or omission is made with the
authorization, knowledge or approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held
to be the act of the employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall
be punishable in the same manner as if the act or omission had been done or
omitted by the licensee personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102)
§ 5-117 HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire minors under the age of 19 years
to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including beer, in the course of their
employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06)
§ 5-118 MINOR’S PRESENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 5-119 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift or procuring of, any alcoholic liquors to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180)
§ 5-120 CREDIT SALES.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares or merchandise or in payment for any services rendered, and if any
person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to be
created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183)
§ 5-121 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   (A)   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill,
in whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or
any other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession
for sale at retail any bottles, casks or other containers containing alcoholic
liquor except in original packages. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
refilling of original packages of alcoholic liquor for strictly private use and
not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184)
 
§ 5-122 CONDUCT PROHIBITED ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   No licensee in this village shall engage in, allow or suffer in or upon the
licensed premises any disturbances, lewdness, immoral activities or displays,
brawls or unnecessary noise; or allow, permit or suffer the licensed premises
to be used in such a manner as to create public censure or become a nuisance,
public or private.
§ 5-123 AUTOMATIC LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   Outstanding retail licenses issued by the Commission may be
automatically renewed in the absence of a request by the Village Board to
require said licensee to submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail
or bottle club establishment located in an area which is annexed to the village
shall file a formal application for a license and while such application is
pending, the licensee shall be authorized to continue all license privileges
pursuant to this article until the original license expires, is canceled or
revoked. If such license expires within 60 days following the annexation date
of such area, the license may be renewed by order of the Commission for not
more than one year.
   (B)   The Village Clerk, upon notice from the Commission, shall cause to be
published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village one
time between January 10 and January 30 each year a notice in the form
prescribed by law of the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and
beer license within the village; provided, that Class C license renewal notices
shall be published between July 10 and July 30 each year. Upon the conclusion
of any hearing required by this section, the Village Board may request a
licensee to submit an application.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-135 and 53-135.01
§ 5-124 PROTESTS AGAINST RENEWAL.
   In the event written protests are filed by three or more residents of the
village against said license and a hearing is held, the Village Board may
request a licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 5-125 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a
complaint with the Board of Trustees stating that any retail licensee or bottle
club licensee subject to the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees has been or
is violating any provision of the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq., or the rules or regulations issued pursuant to the Act. The complaint
shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the Board of Trustees and shall
be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining. The complaint shall state
the particular provision, rule or regulation believed to have been violated and
the facts in detail upon which belief is based.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees is satisfied that the complaint substantially
charges a violation, and that from the facts alleged, there is reasonable cause
for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within ten days from the
date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice upon the licensee of
the time and place of the hearing and of the particular charge in the
complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the Board of
Trustees within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by resolution
thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the final order for the purpose of
appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission as provided in Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
§ 5-126 FORM FOR CITIZEN COMPLAINT.
   The following form is hereby prescribed for the use of residents of this
village desiring to complain to the Chairperson and the Village Board that any
licensee is violating any provision of the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb.
RS 53-101 et seq., regulations prescribed by the State Liquor Control
Commission or any provision of this article.
 
   To the Chairperson and Village Board of the Village of Clearwater, Nebraska:
 
The undersigned respectfully state:
 
   That each one is a resident of the Village of Clearwater, Nebraska.
 
   That they believe that                     , the holder of a Class        license in the aforesaid village, has violated §         of (check one or more):
 
        the State Liquor Control Act.
        the regulations prescribed by the State Liquor Control Commission.
        the municipal code of the Village of Clearwater, Nebraska.
 
That the aforesaid belief is based on the following facts, to-wit:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
 
 
                                                                           
(Name)            (Name)
                                                                           
(Name)            (Name)
                                       
      (Name)
STATE OF NEBRASKA      )
               ) ss.
COUNTY OF ANTELOPE      )
 
Subscribed in my presence and sworn to before me by                             ,                             ,                               ,                              and                              this                             day of                                , 20               .
 
 
My commission expires                                    .
 
                                       
   Notary Public
 
§ 5-127 COMPLAINT INITIATED BY BOARD.
   The Village Board may on its own motion by resolution fix the time and place
for a hearing on whether a licensee has violated any section of the State
Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., the regulations of the State
Liquor Control Commission or this code, which resolution shall state the
section or sections in question. Said resolution shall be served in the same
manner and within the same time as the initial resolution mentioned in §
5-125 , and insofar as possible the procedure shall be the same as is provided
in that section.
(Neb. RS 53-134)
§ 5-128 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Whenever any licensee has been convicted by any court of a violation of the
State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., the licensee may, in
addition to the penalties for such offense, incur a forfeiture of the license
and all money that had been paid for the license. The Village Board may
conditionally revoke the license subject to a final order of the Liquor Control
Commission or the Commission may revoke the license in an original proceeding
brought before it for that purpose.
(Neb. RS 53-116.02)
§ 5-129 CHANGE OF PREMISES.
   Any retailer licensee desiring to transfer his or her license from one
premises to another shall file a written request for permission to do so with
the Village Clerk and shall also file with said Clerk a sworn statement showing
that the premises to which removal is to be made comply in all respects with
the requirements of the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.,
as amended. The Village Clerk shall present said application and statement to
the Village Board at its next meeting and it shall, by resolution, approve or
disapprove the transfer. If the transfer is approved, said approval shall be
endorsed on the license by the Chairperson and attested by the Village Clerk.
§ 5-130 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and, in the judgment of the
officer, dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or not feasible, the
officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary to
preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than 24
hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   A law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT. As defined in Neb. RS 71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or village-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121)
ARTICLE 2: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
5-201   Registration; issuance of permit
   
5-202   Exceptions
   
5-203   Hours
§ 5-201 REGISTRATION; ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous and unhealthful goods and
services; to protect the public by maintaining records of the products sold and
the persons and companies responsible for such sales; all peddlers and
solicitors shall, register with the Village Clerk before doing business within
the village. Said registration shall contain all the necessary information and
documents required for the protection of the residents of the village. Any
person or persons granted a peddlers’ and solicitors’ permit shall be subject
to any fees, occupation taxes and other rules and regulations which the Village
Board deems appropriate for the purposes stated herein. It shall be unlawful at
any hour for a solicitor, salesperson or peddler to solicit without a proper
permit on his or her person at all times. Any permit so granted shall be
subject to revocation for good and sufficient cause.
(Neb. RS 17-525)
§ 5-202 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any person or persons selling
produce raised within the county, to wholesale salespersons soliciting
merchants directly or to a representative of a nonprofit or charity
organization soliciting on behalf of that organization.
§ 5-203 HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful to make calls as a solicitor or peddler to prospective
customers before 8:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. any day unless requested to do so
by the prospective customer.
(Neb. RS 17-134)
ARTICLE 3: MOBILE FOOD VENDING UNITS
Section
   
5-301   Permit required
   
5-302   Application for permit
   
5-303   Approval or denial of permit
   
5-304   Permits nontransferable
   
5-305   Permit fee
   
5-306   Waiver of liability
   
5-307   Strict conformity with permit
   
5-308   Revocation or suspension of permit
   
5-309   Notice of revocation or suspension of permit
   
5-310   Penalty
§ 5-301 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale or peddle food
from a mobile food truck or mobile food vending unit upon any property within
the municipal limits of the village, including, but not limited to, streets,
sidewalks, parking lots, parks and private property without first having
obtained a permit from the village in accordance with this article.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 8-8-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
§ 5-302 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Persons may apply for a permit to operate a mobile food truck or a mobile
food vending unit by filing with the Village Clerk a signed application on a
form to be furnished by the Village Clerk, which shall contain the following
information:
   (A)   The applicant’s business name, address, phone number and email
address;
    (B)   If the applicant is a corporation, partnership or other entity, the
names of all officers and managers of such entity;
   (C)   The vehicle license plate numbers and descriptions of all vehicles
from which the applicant proposes to sell food;
   (D)   The description of the general type of food items to be sold;
   (E)   The requested term of the permit (e.g., a single event or a recurring
license to operate);
   (F)   Documentation from the state showing any and all licenses and permits
required for applicant’s sale of food;
   (G)   A copy of the state sales tax permit, or proof of an applicable sales
tax exemption for the applicant;
   (H)   The address of the location the applicant anticipates selling from,
including written permission from any private landowner, as well as adjoining
private landowners;
   (I)   A copy of the vehicle registration and proof of insurance;
   (J)   Proof of insurance with a minimum coverage of $1,000,000, together
with an insurance certificate listing the village as an additional insured;
   (K)   A signed waiver of liability set forth in § 5-306;
   (L)   A nonrefundable application fee;
   (M)   A plan for disposal of grease, water and other waste; and
   (N)   Such other information as the Village Clerk may require and as
requested in the application form.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 8-8-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
§ 5-303 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a complete application submitted in accordance with §
5-302 , the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees and the Village Clerk shall
either approve or deny the permit. Grounds for denial may include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   A finding that the application is incomplete;
      (2)   Nonpayment of applicable fees;
      (3)   A finding that the application is not in conformity with any
applicable laws, including, but not limited to, this article;
      (4)   A finding that the proposed location of the applicant will impede
traffic or cause safety concerns;
      (5)   A finding that statements within the application are materially
untrue or incorrect;
      (6)   Previous revocations or suspensions of permits issued under this
article or similar ordinances of other municipalities;
      (7)   Insufficient or unacceptable plans for the disposal of grease,
water or other waste;
      (8)   The requested term of the permit is during the Clearwater Rodeo, or
a day before or a day after said rodeo; or
      (9)   Issuance of the permit is not in the best interests of the village.
   (B)   The Chairperson and the Village Clerk also may modify any provision of
the permit, including, but not limited to, reducing the term of the permit.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 8-8-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
§ 5-304 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE.
   Permits issued under this article are nontransferable and no such permit
shall be used at any time by any person other than the one to whom it was
issued.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 8-8-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
§ 5-305 PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for applications submitted under this article shall be $10.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 8-8-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
§ 5-306 WAIVER OF LIABILITY.
   Before a permit under this article is granted, the applicant shall sign a
waiver of liability holding harmless the village and indemnifying the village,
its officials and employees, for any claims for damages to property or injury
to persons, which may occur in connection with mobile food vending.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 8-8-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
§ 5-307 STRICT CONFORMITY WITH PERMIT.
   Permit holders shall conduct their activities in strict conformity with this
permit, including, but not limited to, adhering to their plan for disposal of
grease, water and other waste.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 8-8-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
§ 5-308 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   A permit issued under this article may be revoked or suspended by the
Village Clerk for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the permit;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the selling of food;
   (C)   Operating in contravention of the parameters of the permit;
   (D)   Any unlawful activity of the permit holder, including any violation of
this article; or
   (E)   Operating in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or a
menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 8-8-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
§ 5-309 NOTICE OF REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   When the Village Clerk revokes or suspends a permit or a permit
application is denied, the Village Clerk shall mail a notice of such
revocation, suspension or denial to the address of the permit holder or
applicant, as set forth on the application form. Such permit holder or
applicant may file an appeal with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The request for an appeal shall be in writing to the Village Clerk.
Such request for an appeal must be received within 30 days of the date the
Village Clerk mailed notice of the revocation, suspension or denial. If no
timely request for an appeal is made, the initial decision shall be final. If a
timely request for appeal is received, the appeal shall be heard by the Village
Board of Trustees at a regularly scheduled meeting with notice mailed to the
permit holder or applicant at least 14 days prior to the meeting.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 8-8-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
§ 5-310 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of this
article. Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this
article shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum of not less than $250 nor more
than $500. Each day that a violation of any of the provisions of this article
continues shall constitute a distinct offense and shall be punishable as such.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 8-8-2022; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
ARTICLE 4: PENAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
5-401   Violation; penalty
§ 5-401 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 5-301)
CHAPTER 6: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
   Article
      
1.   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
      2.   STREETS
      3.   SIDEWALKS
      4.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
Section
   
6-101   Definitions
   
6-102   General authority
   
6-103   Obstructions
   
6-104   Overhanging branches
   
6-105   Construction materials; permit required
   
6-106   Barricades and lights
   
6-107   Guttering and eave spouts
   
6-108   Damage
   
6-109   Cutting curb; driveway permit; deposit
   
6-110   Heavy equipment
   
6-111   Real property; acquisition; authorization
   
6-112   Real property; acquisition; appraisal
   
6-113   Real property; acquisition or construction; election requirements
   
6-114   Real property; sale and conveyance
   
6-115   Personal property; sale and conveyance
   
6-116   Special improvement district; assessment and creation procedure
   
6-117   Special improvement district; land adjacent
   
6-118   Special assessments; land adjacent; deferral
§ 6-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curblines and adjacent
property lines.
   STREET COMMISSIONER. The village official with general charge, direction and
control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for streets
and another official is responsible for sidewalks, STREET COMMISSIONER shall
mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term is used.
§ 6-102 GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have the care, supervision and control of
all public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons
within the village and shall cause such highways, bridges, streets, alleys,
public squares and commons to be kept open and in repair and free from
nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
   (B)   The village shall have the power to prevent and remove all
encroachments, including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon
all sidewalks, streets, avenues, alleys and other village property.
(Neb. RS 17-557)
§ 6-103 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation to
obstruct or encumber by fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise any
of the streets, alleys or sidewalks.
   (B)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground
and partially upon the abutting property or wholly upon the abutting property
but so close to the lot line as to interfere with the use or construction of
any public improvement or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility
wires or pipe shall be deemed obstructions. It shall be the duty of owners and
occupants to keep all such similar growth trimmed and pruned at all times.
   (C)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when
the owner or occupant of the adjacent property shall permit or suffer to remain
on any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line whether or not there is
a sidewalk abutting or adjoining such premises.
   (D)   Whenever any such growth is allowed contrary to the provisions of this
section, the Village Board may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant
to remove such obstruction within five days after having been served with a
copy of said resolution stating that the village will do so and will charge the
costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a special assessment for improvements
as herein provided or shall collect the same by civil suit brought in the name
of the village against said owner or occupant.
   (E)   (1)   Said growth may be removed by the village at the expense of the
owner of the property upon which the tree or shrub is located should the owner
fail or neglect, after notice, to do so.
      (2)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the village shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner, which shall be that address
listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first
published.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557.01
§ 6-104 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which the branches of trees extend
shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to a height of at
least eight feet above the surface of said walk and at least 12 feet above the
surface of said street.
   (B)   Whenever the limbs or branches of any tree or trees extend over
streets or sidewalks contrary to the provisions herein so as to interfere with
the lighting of the street from street lights or with the convenience of the
public using said street or sidewalk, the Village Board at any regular or
special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to cut or
remove said obstructions within five days after having received a copy thereof
stating that the village will remove said branches and charge the costs to the
owner or occupant as a special assessment for improvements as herein provided
if said resolution is not complied with.
   (C)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the village shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner, which shall be that address
listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first
published.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
§ 6-105 CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking
or repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with the building materials and
equipment as long as is necessary if such person makes application to and
receives a permit to do so in writing from the Street Commissioner. No permit
shall authorize the occupancy of more than one-third of the roadway of the
public space adjacent to the real estate on which the building or sidewalk is
to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired. A suitable
passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included
in the permit, which passageway shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the Street Commissioner.
§ 6-106 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any owner or occupant engaged in the construction or demolition of any
building or improvement upon or near the public ways and property shall protect
all excavations or exposures of any kind by suitable barricades or guards by
day and by warning lights at night.
   (B)   The failure, neglect or refusal of the owner or occupant to erect and
maintain such protections shall constitute a violation of this section, and the
village may stop all work upon the building and improvements until suitable
protections are erected and maintained in the required manner.
§ 6-107 GUTTERING AND EAVE SPOUTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any dwelling
house or business building within the limits of the village where the dwelling
or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper guttering
and eave spouts to receive the wastewaters that collect on the sidewalks and
streets.
   (B)   All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or business building
shall be constructed to drain into the alleys or shall be buried beneath the
sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be impossible to
drain the eave spouts into the alley.
§ 6-108 DAMAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously or carelessly
injure, change, deface or destroy any street, sidewalk, building, ditch, drain
or grade within the corporate limits. No person shall cause or permit any
offensive or corrosive material to be discharged or thrown out upon any street,
sidewalk, alley or public ground.
§ 6-109 CUTTING CURB; DRIVEWAY PERMIT; DEPOSIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the Village
Board therefor. It shall also be unlawful for any person to construct a
driveway where no curb cutting is required without having first obtained a
permit following the procedures set out herein.
   (B)   All driveway applications shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The addition, block and lot which the driveway is to serve;
      (2)   The location of the proposed driveway with reference to adjacent
lot lines; and
      (3)   The width of the driveway and type of street surface to which the
driveway will connect.
   (C)   Before any permit is issued by the Village Board at a regular or
special meeting, the applicant for such permit shall deposit with the Village
Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the Board for all paving, curb or sidewalk
to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a per-square-foot cost of construction
basis. The deposit shall be retained by the village for the purpose of
replacing the paving, curb or sidewalk in the event the work is done by the
village. In the event the village elects to require the applicant to replace
the paving, curb or sidewalk, the deposit shall be retained by the village
until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the Street Commissioner or
of the committee of the Village Board on streets and alleys.
   (D)   Upon approval by the Village Board, the applicant shall be required to
build said driveway and complete said curb cut to the village’s specifications,
including size and type of materials. When the applicant is ready to close the
opening made, he or she shall inform the Street Department, which shall
supervise and inspect the materials used and work done in closing the opening.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 6-110 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to move or
operate heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk,
crosswalk or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such
structure with heavy plank sufficient in strength to warrant against the
breakage or damage of the same. Hereafter, it shall be unlawful to drive, move,
operate or convey over or across any paved street a vehicle, machine or
implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels that bear upon said pavement; with
wheels having cutting edges; or with wheels having lugs, protruding parts or
bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent
or otherwise injure or damage any pavement, gutter or curb.
   (B)   Where heavy vehicles, structures and machines move along paved or
unpaved streets, the Village Board is hereby authorized and empowered to choose
the route over which such moving will be permitted and allowed.
   (C)   It shall be permissible for school buses and emergency vehicles to use
metal or metal-type studs any time of the year; to use farm machinery with
tires having protuberances which will not damage the streets; and to use tire
chains of reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety
because of snow, ice or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to slide or
skid.
(Neb. RS 60-6,250)
§ 6-111 REAL PROPERTY; ACQUISITION; AUTHORIZATION.
   When acquiring an interest in real property by purchase or eminent domain,
the village shall do so only after the Village Board has authorized the
acquisition by action taken in a public meeting after notice and public
hearing.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-13-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1755
§ 6-112 REAL PROPERTY; ACQUISITION; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the village shall not purchase,
lease-purchase or acquire for consideration real property having an estimated
value of $100,000 or more unless an appraisal of such property has been
performed by a certified real property appraiser.
(Neb. RS 13-403)
§ 6-113 REAL PROPERTY; ACQUISITION OR CONSTRUCTION; ELECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, village building or community house
for housing village enterprises and social and recreation purposes and other
public buildings, including the construction of buildings authorized to be
constructed by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article 14, and including the construction
of buildings to be leased, in whole or in part, by the village to any other
political or governmental subdivision of the state authorized by law to lease
such buildings, and maintain, manage and operate the same for the benefit of
the inhabitants of the village.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the village at a general village election or at an election duly called for
that purpose, or as set forth in division (D) below, and be adopted by a
majority of the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. RS 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, and no
election shall be required to approve the purchase or construction unless,
within 30 days after the publication of the notice, a petition against the
purchase or construction is signed by registered voters of the village equal in
number to 15% of the registered voters of the village voting at the last
regular village election held therein and is filed with the Board of Trustees.
If the date for filing the petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the
filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day. If a petition with the necessary number of qualified signatures
is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the voters of the village
at a general village election or a special election duly called for that
purpose. If the purchase or construction is not approved, the property involved
shall not then, nor within one year following the election, be purchased or
constructed; or
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may proceed without providing the notice and
right of petition required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the Board of Trustees after notice and public hearing as
provided in §
6-111.
(Neb. RS 17-953.01)
   (D)   (1)   (a)   The Board of Trustees, adopting the proposition to make
such purchase or erect such building or buildings for the purposes set forth in
division (A) above, shall have the power to borrow money and pledge the
property and credit of the village upon its negotiable bonds. No such bonds
shall be issued until after the same have been authorized by a majority vote of
the electors voting on the proposition of their issuance, at a general village
election or at a special election called for the submission of such
proposition.
         (b)   The question of such purchase or erection of such building or
buildings, as set forth in division (A) above, and the question of the issuance
of the negotiable bonds referred to in this division (D) may be submitted as
one question at a general village or special election if so ordered by
resolution or ordinance.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the election shall be given by
publication in some legal newspaper printed in or of general circulation in the
village three successive weeks immediately prior thereto.
      (3)   No such election for the issuance of such bonds shall be called
until a petition therefor signed by at least 10% of the legal voters of the
village has been presented to the Board of Trustees. The number of voters
voting at the last regular village election prior to the presenting of the
petition shall be deemed the number of votes in the village for the purpose of
determining the sufficiency of the petition.
      (4)   The question of bond issues for such purpose in the village when
defeated shall not be resubmitted for six months from and after the date of
such election.
      (5)   When the building to be constructed is to be used by the state or
its agency or agencies under a lease authorized by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article
14, or the building is to be leased by any other political or governmental
subdivision of the state, when the combined area of the building to be leased
by the state or its agency or agencies and the political or governmental
subdivision of the state is more than 50% of the area of the building, and when
such sum does not exceed $2,000,000, then no such vote of the electors will be
required.
(Neb. RS 17-954)
 
§ 6-114 REAL PROPERTY; SALE AND CONVEYANCE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) below, the power of the village to
convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park purposes and
public squares, except real property used in the operation of public utilities,
shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at public auction or by
sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of such sales, except that
the property shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a minimum price for real property
at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) above, and the terms of
such sales shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in a
legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village.
   (D)   (1)   If, within 30 days after the third publication of the notice, a
remonstrance petition against the sale conforms to Neb. RS 32-628; is signed by
registered voters of the village equal in number to 30% of the registered
voters of the village voting at the last regular village election held therein;
and is filed with the Board of Trustees, that property shall not then, nor
within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the petition falls
upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected
within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely if filed or
postmarked on or before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Board of Trustees, with the aid
and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall determine
the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The Board of
Trustees shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by certified
mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the Board of Trustees a written receipt that the petition
is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the Board of Trustees. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
also compare the signer’s printed name, street and number or voting precinct
and village or post office address with the voter registration records to
determine whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address
shall be presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
village or post office address match the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the Board of Trustees. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the Board of
Trustees finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and
addresses with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to
determine the validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition and the
qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the petition and that only one person is registered by that name, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification
under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count
only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the
Board of Trustees the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a
valid petition. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
petition and the certifications to the Board of Trustees within 40 days after
the receipt of the remonstrance from the Board of Trustees. The delivery shall
be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by certified mail,
return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature page
shall be counted.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 30 days after the receipt of
the petition and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The Board of Trustees shall, following the hearing,
vote on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the petition
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the village may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with
the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale and passing of the 30-day right-of-remonstrance
period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be confirmed by passage
of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) above shall not apply to the sale of real
property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real property the
total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following passage of the
resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be
posted in three prominent places within the village for a period of not less
than seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a
general description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and
conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be
required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01)
§ 6-115 PERSONAL PROPERTY; SALE AND CONVEYANCE.
   (A)   The power of the village to convey any personal property owned by it
shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms of
the sale. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the village for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the
property. If the fair market value of the property is greater than $5,000,
notice of the sale shall also be published once in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the village at least seven days prior to the sale of the
property. The notice shall give a general description of the property offered
for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
   (B)   Personal property may be conveyed notwithstanding the procedure in
division (A) above when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs; or
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency.
(Neb. RS 17-503.02)
§ 6-116 SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT AND CREATION PROCEDURE.
   The Village Board may by ordinance create a special improvement district for
the purpose of replacing, reconstructing or repairing an existing water line,
sewer line or any other such improvement. Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428
through 19-2431, the Board shall have power to assess, to the extent of such
benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found especially
benefited thereby, whether or not such properties were previously assessed for
the same general purpose. In creating such special improvement district, the
Board shall follow procedures applicable to the creation and assessment of the
same type of improvement district as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 18-1751)
§ 6-117 SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; LAND ADJACENT.
   Supplemental to any existing law on the subject, a village may include land
adjacent to such village when creating an improvement as a sewer, water, water
extension or sanitary sewer extension district. The Village Board shall have
power to assess, to the extent of special benefits, the costs of such
improvements upon the properties found especially benefited thereby, except as
provided in §
6-118.
(Neb. RS 19-2427)
 
§ 6-118 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; LAND ADJACENT; DEFERRAL.
   (A)   Whenever the Village Board creates an improvement district which
includes land adjacent to the village that is within an agricultural use zone
and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners of record title of
such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special assessments. For the
purpose of this section, the terms AGRICULTURAL USE and AGRICULTURAL USE ZONE
shall have the meaning specified in Neb. RS 77-1343.
   (B)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
section shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the Village Board
within 90 days after creation of an improvement district as specified in § 6-
116. Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral provided
by this section shall notify the register of deeds of such application in
writing prior to approval by the Village Board. The Board shall approve the
application of any owner of record title upon determination that the property
is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use
and the owner has met the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the Village Board to
remove such deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in division (C)(3)
below.
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of
such property shall pay to the village an amount equal to the total amount of
special assessments which would have been assessed against such property, to
the extent of special benefits, had such deferral not been granted. Interest
upon the special assessments not paid each year at the rate of 6% from the
dates at which such assessments would have been payable if no deferral had been
granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in division (C)(2) or (C)(3) above,
the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day preceding such
sale or transfer.
(Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431)
ARTICLE 2: STREETS
Section
   
6-201   Names and numbers
   
6-202   Opening, widening, improving or vacating
   
6-203   Crossings
   
6-204   Excavation
   
6-205   Driving stakes
   
6-206   Mixing concrete
   
6-207   Harmful liquids
   
6-208   Utility poles, wires, mains
   
6-209   Driveway approaches
   
6-210   Streets, alleys, walks, malls and other improvements
   
6-211   Improvement districts; special assessments
   
6-212   Improvement of streets on corporate limits
   
6-213   Petition for improvements
   
6-214   Improvement districts; objections
   
6-215   Improvement of main thoroughfares
   
6-216   Construction assessment
   
6-217   Construction notice
   
6-218   Vacating public ways; procedure
   
6-219   Vacating public ways; definitions; ascertaining damages
   
6-220   Vacating public ways; title
§ 6-201 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The Board of Trustees may at any time by ordinance rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the
Board of Trustees may require. It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner,
upon the erection of any new building, to assign the proper numbers to the
building and give notice to the owner and occupant of the same.
§ 6-202 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The village shall have the power to open, widen or otherwise
improve or vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the
village and also to create, open and improve any new street, avenue, alley or
lane. All damages sustained by the citizens of the village, or by the owners of
the property therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided
by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated, such street,
avenue, alley or lane shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate,
one-half on each side thereof, and become a part of that property unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title
is retained by the village, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or
leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests
of the village.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street,
avenue, alley or lane. If title is retained by the village, such property may
be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall
be deemed in the best interests of the village.
      (4)   When the village vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley or lane, the village shall, within 30 days after the effective date of
the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register
of Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located, to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the village the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the village, any public utilities and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties, and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The village shall have the power to create, open, widen or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area or other public way, or to
annul, vacate or discontinue such street, avenue, alley, area or public way.
(Neb. RS 17-559)
§ 6-203 CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Street Commissioner, those street, avenue and alley
crossings as the Board of Trustees deems necessary.
   (B)   When a petition for the construction of any such crossing is filed by
an interested resident in the office of the Village Clerk, the Village Clerk
shall refer the application to the Street Commissioner, who shall investigate
and make a recommendation to the Board of Trustees. Action by the Board of
Trustees on the application, whether the application is approved or rejected,
shall be considered final.
§ 6-204 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Street Commissioner authorizing those excavations.
§ 6-205 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Street Commissioner.
§ 6-206 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
 § 6-207 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
§ 6-208 UTILITY POLES, WIRES, MAINS.
   (A)   Poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines and other appurtenances
of public service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the
streets, alleys and common grounds of the village. Application for location of
such appurtenances shall be made to the Board of Trustees in writing. Approval
by the Board shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipelines or other appurtenances shall at all times erect and locate
their appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be designated by
the Board.
   (B)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines and other
appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the Board. Any such removal or relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the Board, and the Village Clerk shall notify
any and all companies affected. The companies shall, within 24 hours after
receiving notice, at their own expense cause the poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipelines or other appurtenances to be removed or relocated. The Board
shall designate another location as closely as possible where the appurtenances
may be reset or placed.
   (C)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines or other
appurtenances shall be reset, placed or erected in such a manner that they will
not interfere with the water system; the sewerage system; any poles, wires,
conduits, mains, lines or other appurtenances of any public utility; any
adjacent buildings; or travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines and appurtenances
shall be confined to the alleys of the village.
§ 6-209 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner may require the owner of property served by a
driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure, including pavement or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of the owner or
the agent of the owner, directing the repair or replacement of the driveway
approach. If, within 30 days of mailing the notice, the property owner fails or
neglects to cause the repairs or replacements to be made, the Street
Commissioner may cause the work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by the approach.
(Neb. RS 18-1748)
§ 6-210 STREETS, ALLEYS, WALKS, MALLS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may grade, partially or to an established
grade, change grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel,
macadamize, remacadamize, widen or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or re-
lay existing pavement, or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public grounds
or public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the village
corporate area and the area adjoining the village; construct or reconstruct
pedestrian walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler systems,
fountains, decorative water ponds, lighting systems and permanent facilities;
and construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space.
      (2)   These projects may be funded at public cost or by the levy of
special assessments on the property especially benefited in proportion to such
benefits, except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431.
   (B)   All of the improvements which are to be funded by a levy of special
assessment on the property especially benefited shall be ordered as provided in
Neb. RS 17-510 through 17-512, except as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 17-509.
(Neb. RS 17-509)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on improvements, assessments and bonds, see Neb. RS 17-513
through 17-524, 18-1751, 19-2401 and 19-2408 through 19-2415
§ 6-211 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   The Village Board may by ordinance create paving, repaving, grading,
curbing, recurbing, resurfacing, graveling or improvement districts, to be
consecutively numbered, which may include two or more connecting or
intersecting streets, alleys or public ways, and may include two or more of the
improvements in one proceeding.
   (B)   All of the improvements which are to be funded by a levy of special
assessment on the property especially benefited shall be ordered as provided in
§§
6-213 through
6-215, unless the Board improves a street which divides the village corporate
area and the area adjoining the village as provided in §
6-212.
(Neb. RS 17-509)
§ 6-212 IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS ON CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   Whenever the Village Board improves any street which divides the
village corporate area and the area adjoining the village, the Board shall
determine the sufficiency of petition as set forth in §
6-213 by the owners of the record title representing more than 60% of the front
footage of the property directly abutting upon the street to be improved,
rather than 60% of the resident owners.
   (B)   Whenever the Board shall deem it necessary to make any of the
improvements allowed by statute on a street which divides the village corporate
area and the area adjoining the village, the Village Board shall by ordinance
create the improvement district pursuant to §
6-214 and the right of remonstrance shall be limited to owners of record title,
rather than resident owners.
(Neb. RS 17-509)
§ 6-213 PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing
more than 60% of the front footage of the property directly abutting upon the
street, streets, alley, alleys, public way or the public grounds proposed to be
improved shall be presented and filed with the Village Clerk, petitioning
therefor, the Village Board shall by ordinance create a paving, graveling or
other improvement district or districts and shall cause such work to be done or
such improvement to be made.
   (B)   The Board shall contract therefor and shall levy assessments on the
lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such street, streets, alley
or alleys, especially benefited thereby in such district in proportion to such
benefits, except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431, to pay the
cost of such improvement.
   (C)   The Board shall have the discretion to deny the formation of the
proposed district when the area has not previously been improved with a water
system, sewer system and grading of streets. If the Board should deny a
requested improvement district formation, it shall state the grounds for such
denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Neb. RS 17-510)
§ 6-214 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; OBJECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Village Board deems it necessary to make any improvements
allowed by statute which are to be funded by a levy of special assessment on
the property especially benefited, the Board shall by ordinance create a
paving, graveling or other improvement district and, after the passage,
approval and publication or posting of such ordinance, shall publish notice of
the creation of any such district for six days in a legal newspaper of the
village, if a daily newspaper, or for two consecutive weeks if a weekly
newspaper. If no legal newspaper is published In the village, the publication
shall be in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the village.
   (B)   (1)   If the owners of the record title representing more than 50% of
the front footage of the property directly abutting on the street or alley to
be improved file with the Village Clerk within 20 days after the first
publication of such notice written objections to the creation of such district,
such improvement shall not be made as provided in such ordinance, but the
ordinance shall be repealed.
      (2)   If objections are not filed against the district in the time and
manner prescribed in this section, the Village Board shall immediately cause
such work to be done or such improvement to be made, shall contract for the
work or improvement and shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land
abutting on or adjacent to such street or alley especially benefited in such
district in proportion to such benefits to pay the cost of such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-511)
§ 6-215 IMPROVEMENT OF MAIN THOROUGHFARES.
   The Board of Trustees shall have power by a three-fourths vote to enact an
ordinance creating a paving, graveling or other improvement district and to
order such work to be done without petition upon any federal or state highways
in the village or upon a street or route designated by the Board as a main
thoroughfare, connecting to either a federal or state highway or a county road.
The Board shall contract therefor and shall levy assessments on the lots and
parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such street, alley or alleys
especially benefited thereby in such district in proportion to such benefits to
pay the cost of such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-512)
§ 6-216 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements as may be
authorized by law, the Village Board shall have power and authority to levy and
collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon or especially benefiting from the street, avenue,
alley or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed or otherwise improved or repaired. The Village Board sitting as the
Board of Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with the
procedure provided by law.
   (B)   All special assessments shall be made by the Village Board at a
regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into account the benefits
derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such improvements and the
amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice
of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held
shall be published in a legal newspaper published or of general circulation in
the village at least four weeks before the same shall be held. In lieu of such
aforementioned notice, personal service may be had upon the persons owning or
occupying the property to be assessed.
   (C)   Every such assessment shall be known as a “special assessment for
improvements” and with the cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a
special tax in addition to the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to
the same penalties and collected in like manner as other village taxes. Such
assessment shall be certified to the County Clerk by the Village Clerk
forthwith after the date of levy for collection by the County Treasurer unless
otherwise specified. After it shall have become delinquent, said assessment
shall draw interest at the legal interest rate per annum.
   (D)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the village shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner, which shall be that address
listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first
published.
Statutory reference:
   Interest; political subdivisions; delinquent taxes; special assessments, see
Neb. RS 45-104.01
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511, 17-524 and 19-2428 through 19-2431
§ 6-217 CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   The Street Commissioner shall notify the owners in fee simple of real estate
abutting a street, alley or a part thereof which is to be put under contract
for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas, electric service
and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all consumers of gas,
water and sewer services which will be discontinued during such construction.
Said notice shall be published one time in a legal newspaper at least 20 days
prior to the beginning of such construction by the party undertaking such
construction and said notice shall state at what date connections must be made
and excavation completed. All gas, water, sewer and underground connections
must be made prior to the paving or repaving of the street under construction.
After expiration of such time, permits for excavation will not be issued, nor
will excavation be allowed, until after the completion of the pavement in said
street or alley, and the formal final acceptance thereof by the proper
officials of the village.
§ 6-218 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; PROCEDURE.
   Whenever the Village Board decides that it would be in the best interests of
the village to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way, the
Board shall comply with the following procedure.
   (A)   Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners either by first
class mail to their last known address or, if there is no known address, then
by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general circulation in the
village. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting property owners
that the Village Board will consider vacating such street, avenue, alley, lane
or similar public way at its next regular meeting or, if a special meeting is
scheduled for such discussion, then the date, time and place of such meeting.
   (B)   (1)   The Village Board may have all the abutting property owners sign
a form stating that they consent to the action being taken by the Board and
waive their right of access. The signing of such form shall have no effect on
claims for special damages by the abutting property owners but shall create the
presumption that the Board’s action was proper.
      (2)   If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/waiver
form, the Village Board may still proceed with vacating the street, avenue,
alley, lane or similar public way under the authority granted by Neb. RS 17-558
and 17-559.
   (C)   The Village Board shall pass an ordinance that includes essentially
the following provisions:
      (1)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good or
in the best interests of the village;
      (2)   A statement that the village will have an easement for maintaining
all utilities; and
      (3)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to abutting
property owners.
   (D)   The Clerk shall file a copy of the ordinance with the County Register
of Deeds to ensure that abutting property owners can gain title to their share
of the vacated street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way, and so that
such land will be drawn to the attention of the County Assessor.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-558 and 17-559
§ 6-219 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; DEFINITIONS; ASCERTAINING DAMAGES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SPECIAL DAMAGES. Only those losses or damages or injuries which a
property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or her
property and which result from the Board of Trustees vacating a street, avenue,
alley, lane or similar public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not mean those losses
or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in common with
the rest of the village or public at large, even though those losses or damages
or injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in degree than the rest
of the village or public at large.
   (C)   The Chairperson, with approval of the Village Board, shall appoint
three, five or seven disinterested residents of the village to a special
commission to ascertain the amount of special damages that the abutting
property owners are entitled to receive and which resulted from the vacating of
such street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way. Only special damages,
as herein defined, shall be awarded to the abutting property owners.
   (D)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the aforementioned commission shall use the
following rule: the abutting property owner is entitled to recover as
compensation the difference between the value of such property immediately
before and immediately after the vacating of such street, avenue, alley, lane
or similar public way. However, if no difference in value exists, the abutting
property owner is entitled to no compensation.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-558 and 17-559
§ 6-220 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; TITLE.
   (A)   Upon the vacation of any street or alley or any part thereof by the
village, the title of such property shall vest in the owner of the abutting
property and become part of such property, one-half on each side thereof,
except that the village may reserve title to such property in the ordinance
vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by the village, such
property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such terms and
conditions as shall be deemed in the best interest of the village.
   (B)   In the event the village does not elect to reserve title in the
vacated portion of such street or alley, the title to said property nonetheless
shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   There is reserved to the village the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there; and
      (2)   There is reserved to the village, any public utilities and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
ARTICLE 3: SIDEWALKS
Section
   
6-301   Duty to keep clean
   
6-302   Maintenance and repair
   
6-303   Construction by owner; application, permit
   
6-304   Construction by village
   
6-305   Construction bids
   
6-306   Construction by petition
§ 6-301 DUTY TO KEEP CLEAN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner
of any vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet,
mud, ice or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any
snow, sleet, ice, mud or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk.
   (B)   Unless the Board of Trustees has provided otherwise, all sidewalks
within the Business District shall be cleaned within five hours after the
cessation of a storm unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place
during the night, in which case, the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m.
the following day, and sidewalks within the residential areas of the village
shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
§ 6-302 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   (A)   Every owner of any lot, lots or piece of land within the corporate
limits shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous
to said parcels of land in good and proper repair and in a condition reasonably
safe for travel for all travelers thereon.
   (B)   The village official in charge of sidewalks may require sidewalks of
the village to be repaired. Notice to the owners of property upon which such
sidewalks in disrepair are located shall require within 48 hours from issuance
of notice said owners to make arrangements to have the sidewalk repaired. Said
repairs shall be completed within 21 days after issuance of said notice.
   (C)   In the event that the owner or owners of any lot, lots or lands
abutting on any street, avenue or part thereof shall fail to construct or
repair any sidewalk in front of his, her or their lot, lots or lands within the
time and in the manner as directed and required herein after having received
due notice to do so, he, she or they shall be liable for all damages or injury
occasioned by reason of the defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk
and the Village Board shall have power to cause any such sidewalks to be
constructed or repaired and assess the costs thereof against such property.
   (D)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the village shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner, which shall be that address
listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first
published.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
§ 6-303 CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER; APPLICATION, PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the Village Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Street Commissioner shall issue the desired permit unless good
cause appears why the permit should be denied, except that if it is desired to
construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed location,
grade or elevation, the Street Commissioner shall submit the application to the
Board of Trustees for determination as to whether the permit should be granted
or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be
constructed, such sidewalk at any other location, grade or elevation than so
designated by the village. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the
established grade or elevation, and if there is no established grade, then on
the grade or elevation indicated by the Street Commissioner.
§ 6-304 CONSTRUCTION BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Board of
Trustees deems necessary and assess the expense of such construction or repairs
on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are made, after
having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the village; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 through 17-521 and may be exercised without creating
an improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner’s
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Board of Trustees, after having received due notice to do so, the Board of
Trustees may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may assess
the cost of such construction or repairs against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner:
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the Board of Trustees at a special
meeting by a resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the
time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village
at least four weeks before the same shall be held or, in lieu thereof, personal
service may be made upon persons owning or occupying property to be assessed;
and
      (2)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other village taxes.
(Neb. RS 17-524)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. RS 19-2417 through
19-2419
 § 6-305 CONSTRUCTION BIDS.
   Whenever the village shall construct, widen, replace or reconstruct any
sidewalk, notice prepared by the Village Attorney specifying the work to be
done and calling for bids for doing such work and supplying the necessary
materials and labor shall be published at least once in a legal newspaper of
general circulation in the village; provided, that bids so invited shall be
filed in the office of the Village Clerk within ten days after the date of
publication. Bids shall be opened at the next regular or special meeting of the
Village Board, which shall then award the work to the lowest responsible
bidder. Upon approval of the work, the Board may require the contractor to
accept payment in certificates issued to him or her by the Village Clerk
entitling him or her to all assessments or special taxes against such real
estate whenever such assessments or special taxes shall be collected, together
with the interest or penalty collected thereon. Each certificate shall give the
legal description of the lot, lots or parcel of ground against which the
assessments or special taxes are assessed. Such certificate or certificates may
be assigned and transferred, entitling the holder to the same rights as if held
by the original contractor. The County Treasurer shall pay over to such
contractor or other holder of the certificate or certificates all assessments
or special taxes against such real estate, together with the interest and
penalty thereon, at any time upon presentation of such certificate or
certificates after said assessments or special taxes against such real estate,
together with interest or penalty thereon, shall have been collected.
§ 6-306 CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   (A)   If the owners of record title representing more than 60% of the front
footage of the directly abutting property subject to assessment for sidewalk
improvements petition the Village Board to make the same, the Board shall
proceed in all things as though such construction had been ordered by it. The
total cost of such improvement shall be levied, allocated, financed and
specially assessed as provided by law.
   (B)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the village shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner, which shall be that address
listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first
published.
(Neb. RS 17-510)
ARTICLE 4: PENAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
6-401   Violation; penalty
   
6-402   Abatement of nuisance
§ 6-401 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
§ 6-402 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the village may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same in the manner provided
by law. Whenever in any action it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
CHAPTER 7: PUBLIC UTILITIES
   Article
      
1.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
2.   WATER DEPARTMENT
      
3.   SEWER DEPARTMENT
      
4.   SOLID WASTE
      
5.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
7-101   Village powers; rate setting
   
7-102   Billing and collections; delinquency
   
7-103   Discontinuance of service; notice; procedure
   
7-104   Lien
   
7-105   Diversion of services; meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection
prohibited; evidence
   
7-106   Diversion of services; penalty
   
7-107   Deposits for water, sewer and trash service
   
7-108   Surplus waterworks income
§ 7-101 VILLAGE POWERS; RATE SETTING.
   The village currently owns and operates a water supply and distribution
system and a sanitary sewer disposal and treatment system. The village has the
right and power to tax assets and collect from its residents such tax, rent or
rates for the use and benefit of the water used or supplied to them by the
water system. The Village Board is authorized to establish by ordinance such
rates for water and sewer service as may be deemed fair and reasonable. All
such rates, taxes or rent shall be a lien upon the premises or real estate for
which the same is used or supplied and such taxes, rents or rates shall be paid
and collected and such lien enforced in such manner as the Board shall by
ordinance direct and provide. All such rates, taxes or rent shall be on file in
the office of the Village Clerk for public inspection.
(Neb. RS 17-538)
§ 7-102 BILLING AND COLLECTIONS; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   The rates for water service shall be a flat rate for each residential
and commercial consumer, plus monthly a surcharge of to assist with required
monthly water testing. In addition, the billing shall include flat rate charges
for sewer and garbage pickup services. The public school shall be a separately
classified consumer and shall pay an monthly sewer use charge. Water and sewer
rates shall be paid as laid out in §§
7-212 and
7-314. All residential consumers who are at least 65 years of age and who
supply verified proof of age on a form provided by the village shall be
assessed a special monthly trash rate. Bills shall be mailed no later than the
twentieth day of the month.
   (B)   All bills shall be payable on the first day of the month following the
month of service. Consumers may pay their utility bills by mail, online, auto-
withdrawal or by presenting payment directly to the Village Clerk or by
depositing payment in the village drop box located at the Village Office or
Cornerstone Bank. Any charges for utility services that remain unpaid after the
fifth day of the month shall be delinquent and shall incur a late fee as set by
the Village Board and placed on file in the office of the Village Clerk. The
village shall mail written notice to the consumer on the sixth day of the month
that a delinquency exists. The village may also take any action authorized by
law to collect the delinquent charges.
   (C)   Bills not paid after two months shall be subject to disconnection of
the water supply, subject to §
7-103, for the lot, parcel of land or premises affected and shall not be re-
established except upon receipt of payment in full of the delinquent charges
and further, upon payment of a fee for reconnection of the water service as set
by the Village Board and placed on file in the office of the Village Clerk.
§ 7-103 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   No village utility shall discontinue service to any domestic
subscriber for nonpayment of any due account unless such utility shall first
give written notice by mail to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be
terminated at least seven days prior to termination.
   (B)   (1)   Prior to the discontinuation of service to any domestic
subscriber by a village utility, the domestic subscriber, upon request, shall
be provided a conference with the Board of Trustees. The procedure to resolve
utility bills when a conference is requested by a domestic subscriber is:
         (a)   The domestic subscriber’s request shall be placed on the next
Board meeting agenda, provided that the request is made at least 24 hours in
advance of said meeting;
         (b)   The domestic subscriber will be given an opportunity at the
meeting to contest any delinquent charges;
         (c)   The Board will determine what are the delinquent charges due;
and
         (d)   The Board shall offer a payment plan for full payment of
delinquent charges no later than 60 days from the date of the meeting, except
that no payment plan shall be offered for a domestic subscriber who has been
granted a payment plan within the last 90 days. Furthermore, the payment plan
shall provide for interest at the rate of 12% per annum accruing from the
original due date if a payment is missed under a payment plan.
      (2)   A copy of this section shall be furnished upon the request of any
domestic subscriber. The Board shall notify the domestic subscriber of the
time, place and date scheduled for such conference.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the village for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Ord. 2024-6, passed 9-9-2024; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1603 and 70-1604
§ 7-104 LIEN.
   (A)   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason
remain indebted to the village for utilities furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent utility rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was furnished.
   (B)   Whenever interest is charged pursuant to a payment plan approved
pursuant to §
7-103, the Village Clerk shall notify the owner of the subject premises via
phone. The Village Clerk shall notify all owners of premises via certified mail
whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment
of the utilities rent and whether they have entered into a payment plan
pursuant to §
7-103. It shall be the responsibility of all owners of a rented premises to
provide their phone number to the Village Clerk, and all certified mailings
required herein shall be sent to the address that the County Treasurer sends
tax statements for a particular parcel.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk on June 1 of each year to
report to the Village Board a list of all unpaid accounts due for utilities
service, together with a description of the premises served. The report shall
be examined, and if approved by the Board, shall be certified by the Village
Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner
provided by law.
(Ord. 2024-6, passed 9-9-2024; Res. 2025-1, passed 1-13-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538, 17-925.01 and 18-503
§ 7-105 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to do any of the following:
      (1)   To connect any instrument, device or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or to connect
any pipe or conduit supplying gas or water, without the knowledge and consent
of any village utility supplying such products or services, in such a manner
that any portion thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which
electricity, electric current, gas or water may be consumed without passing
through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or
quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of electricity,
electric current, gas or water obtained unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect electrical, gas or water service without the knowledge
and consent of any village utility supplying such service if the service has
been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601 through 70-1615 or this article;
or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter or by any instrument, device or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of electricity, electric current, gas or water passing through it, without the
knowledge and consent of any village utility supplying the electricity,
electric current, gas or water passing or intended to pass through the meter.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where that connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Neb. RS 28-515.02)
§ 7-106 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; PENALTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The village utility may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets or attempts
bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering when that act results in damages
to the utility. A village utility may bring a civil action for damages pursuant
to this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the village
utility shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering or unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under division (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)(b)
above, the utility may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on
account of the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering, including, but
not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of
the suit, and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS
25-1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is
proven to exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant had access to the part of the
utility supply system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering is proven to exist and was responsible or partially
responsible for payment, either directly or indirectly, to the utility or to
any other person for utility services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist
caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply system on
the premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering was proven
to exist.
(Neb. RS 25-21,277)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
§ 7-107 DEPOSITS FOR WATER, SEWER AND TRASH SERVICE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to receive water, sewer or trash service furnished
by or contracted by the village shall pay a deposit of $150. The payment of
such deposit shall be made for any new service provided to such person or to
any change in the location of the service provided.
   (B)   (1)   The deposit set forth in division (A) above shall be refunded
upon the termination of such utility service only after payment of all amounts
due to the village for such service.
      (2)   The deposit may be applied in part or in total to the payment of
any amount that is due to the village for the nonpayment of utility service,
including any fees related to utility service due and owing to the village.
(Ord. 2023-6, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 7-108 SURPLUS WATERWORKS INCOME.
   As set forth in Neb. RS 17-540, all income received by the village from
public utilities and from the payment and collection of water taxes, rents,
rates or assessments shall be applied to the payment of running expenses,
interest on bonds or money borrowed and the erection and construction of public
utilities. If there is any surplus income, such income shall be placed into the
General Fund of the village.
(Ord. 2024-5, passed 9-9-2024)
ARTICLE 2: WATER DEPARTMENT
Section
   
7-201   Operation and funding
   
7-202   Definitions
   
7-203   Mandatory hookup; private non-village wells
   
7-204   Service to nonresidents
   
7-205   Consumer’s application
   
7-206   Water contract; not transferable
   
7-207   Installation expense
   
7-208   Prohibition of lead pipes, solder and flux
   
7-209   Work hours
   
7-210   Repairs and maintenance
   
7-211   Installation or repair procedure
   
7-212   Water rates
   
7-213   Billing and collections
   
7-214   Right of entry for inspection
   
7-215   Single premises
   
7-216   Destruction of property
   
7-217   Fire hydrants
   
7-218   Pollution
   
7-219   Backflow prevention devices; customer installation and maintenance;
testing
   
7-220   Wells and other underground facilities; distance from village water
sources
   
7-221   Wellhead protection area
   
7-222   Wells and other underground facilities; permits
   
7-223   Restricted use; village liability
   
7-224   Water emergency; definitions; classes of use
§ 7-201 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The village owns and operates the Water Department through the
Utilities Superintendent. The Village Board, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the care, management and maintenance of the Department, may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from said tax shall be known as
the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the Village Treasurer.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct management and
control of the Water Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of
his or her office. The Superintendent shall have the authority to adopt rules
and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Water
Department, subject to the supervision and review of the Village Board.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534 and 19-1305
§ 7-202 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to and dispersing the same in the village.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
§ 7-203 MANDATORY HOOKUP; PRIVATE NON-VILLAGE WELLS.
   (A)   All persons whose property is within 300 feet of a main that is now or
may hereafter be laid shall be required, upon notice by the Village Board, to
hook up with the village water system.
   (B)   The village may furnish water service to persons within its corporate
limits whose premises are not within 300 feet of a village commercial with
permission from the Village Board, provided the entire cost of pipe and other
installation charges shall be paid by such consumer. Nothing herein shall be
construed to obligate the village to provide water service to persons whose
property line is not within 300 feet of the nearest main.
   (C)   Each primary structure hereafter erected shall be connected with the
water system at the time of its erection. In the event any owner, occupant or
lessee shall neglect, fail or refuse within a period of ten days after the
notice has been given to do so by regular mail or by publication in a newspaper
in or of general circulation in the village to make such connection, the
Village Board shall have the power to cause the same to be done, to assess the
cost thereof against the property and to collect the water bills in the manner
provided for collection of other special taxes or assessments or to collect in
the manner provided for the collection of water bills as provided herein.
   (D)   Private wells previously constructed and operating prior to the
village establishing its water system shall be permitted to operate, providing
that such well complies with other existing, applicable ordinances and does not
violate applicable state laws or regulations promulgated by the State
Department of Health.
(Neb. RS 17-537)
§ 7-204 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   The Department shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the Village Board; provided,
that the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe shall be
paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the village
to provide water service to nonresidents.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537 and 19-2701
§ 7-205 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Village Clerk. The application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the Utilities Superintendent. Water shall not be supplied to any house or
private service pipe except upon the order of the Superintendent.
§ 7-206 WATER CONTRACT; NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   The rules, regulations and water rates set forth in this chapter shall
be considered a part of every application hereafter made for water service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every consumer now or
hereafter served.
   (B)   The making of application on the part of any applicant for the use or
consumption of water service by present customers thereof, and the furnishing
of water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the
consumer and the village to which said contract both parties are bound. If the
customer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable
rules and regulations that the Village Board may hereafter adopt, the Utilities
Superintendent or his or her agent may cut off or disconnect the water service
from the building or premises of such violation. No further connection for
water service to said building or premises shall again be made save or except
by order of said Superintendent or his or her agent.
   (C)   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing
to change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a
new contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose of or move from the premises
where service is furnished, or if said premises are destroyed by fire or other
casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Village Clerk, who shall cause the
water service to be shut off at said premises. If the consumer should fail to
give such notice, he or she shall be charged for water monthly until the
Utilities Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Neb. RS 17-537)
§ 7-207 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   The owner of the premises served and the occupant(s) thereof, the
users of the water service, shall be jointly and severally liable for the water
service provided said premises by the village. Upon the request of the owner of
the premises served and the occupant(s) thereof, the village, by its
representative, shall be responsible for connecting the consumer’s line to the
village water line, assuming all necessary fees have been paid and forms
completed. For the purpose of this section, NECESSARY FEES shall include a
hookup fee as set by the Village Board for new water service or for
circumstances wherein the owner and/or user of the premises served requests a
termination of water service to said premises and later requests a reconnection
of water service.
   (B)   The expense of providing water service to lot line shall be paid by
the village. The consumer shall then pay the cost of installation and pipe from
the lot line to the place of dispersement. The cost of the installation of the
stop box shall be paid by the village. The consumer shall be required to pay
the expense of procuring the services of a plumber and shall pay the expense of
furnishing and installing pipe, trenching and the necessary labor to bring
water service from said lot line to the place of dispersement.
(Ord. 91-12, passed 9-12-1991; Ord. 92-5, passed 6-29-1992; Ord. 2003-6, passed
11-11-2003; Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-12-2005; Ord. 2012-2, passed 3-8-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537, 17-542 and 19-2701
§ 7-208 PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER AND FLUX.
   Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or nonresidential building which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free. For the purpose of this section, LEAD FREE
shall mean: solders and flux, not more than 0.2% lead; and pipe and pipe
fittings, not more than 0.25% lead.
(Ord. 90-2, passed 1-8-1990; Ord. 90-7, passed 4-9-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 71-5301
§ 7-209 WORK HOURS.
   All taps or plumbing work done on or to the village water system shall be
done between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(Neb. RS 17-537)
§ 7-210 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   (1)   The village shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all
supply pipe between the commercial main and the stop box. The customer, at his
or her own expense, shall replace and keep in repair all service pipe from the
stop box to the place of dispersement.
      (2)   When leaks occur in service pipes, the Utilities Superintendent
shall shut off water service until the leak is repaired at the expense of the
customer to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
   (B)   (1)   Under division (A) above, water customers, at their own expense,
shall replace and keep in repair all service pipe from the stop box to the
place of dispersement, while the village has an obligation to repair or replace
all supply pipe between the commercial main and the stop box.
      (2)   Due to division (A) above, water customers still have an obligation
to replace and keep in repair all service pipe from the stop box to the place
of dispersement, even if a water meter is installed in between the stop box and
the place of dispersement.
(Res. 2023-12, passed 6-12-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 7-211 INSTALLATION OR REPAIR PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe or making repairs, the paving and earth must be removed and
deposited in a manner that will be least inconvenient to the public and provide
for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an excavation made in the street,
alley or sidewalk open at any time without a barricade and, during the night,
warning lights.
   (B)   After service pipes are laid, the streets, alleys and sidewalks shall
be restored to good condition. If the excavation in any street, alley or
sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the
Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to finish or correct the work and
all expenses so incurred shall be charged to the consumer.
   (C)   (1)   All installations or repairs of pipes require inspections by the
Utilities Superintendent. Inspections shall be made when connections or repairs
are complete and before the pipes are covered.
      (2)   It is the customer’s responsibility to notify the Utilities
Superintendent at the time the work is ready for inspection.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537 and 71-5301
§ 7-212 WATER RATES.
   (A)   The Village Board has the power and authority to set the rates to be
paid by the water customers for the use of water service. Customers of the
Water Department shall be charged a flat rate for water use. All such rates
shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the Village Clerk, and
all sewer customers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by ordinance.
   (B)   For the use of said water system, each residential, business or
apartment user with a water meter within the municipal corporate limits shall
pay a monthly base water meter rate in the amount of $12 as well as a monthly
surcharge of $1 to assist with required monthly water testing. These fees shall
be paid per water meter, regardless of whether water services are utilized.
Each user shall also pay a monthly water rate per water meter, based on usage,
regardless of water meter size. The applicable usage fees shall be as follows.
 
Usage               Rate
Up to 5,000 gallons $2.75 per 1,000 gallons
Over 5,000 gallons  $1.75 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-9-2018; Ord. 2026-2, passed 3-9-2026)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-540 and 17-542
§ 7-213 BILLING AND COLLECTIONS.
   The Village Clerk shall bill the consumers and collect all money received by
the village on the account of the Water Department and shall faithfully account
for and pay to the Village Treasurer all revenue collected. Billing, collection
and termination procedures are set forth in §§
7-102 and
7-103.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
§ 7-214 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION.
   The Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agent shall have
free access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premises and building
to or in which water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Neb. RS 17-537)
§ 7-215 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families or allow them to take water
from his or her premises nor after water is supplied into a building shall any
person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection
with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or attachment without
the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent.
(Neb. RS 17-537)
§ 7-216 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Water Department. No person may deposit anything in a stop
box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of
the above-mentioned property without the written permission of the Utilities
Superintendent.
§ 7-217 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief or the assistant
Chief or employees of the Water Department to open or attempt to open any of
the hydrants and draw water from the same or in any manner to interfere with
the hydrants.
§ 7-218 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Water Department.
(Neb. RS 17-536)
§ 7-219 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES; CUSTOMER INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE;
TESTING.
   (A)   A customer of the Water Department may be required by the Utilities
Superintendent to install and maintain a properly located backflow prevention
device at his or her expense appropriate to the potential hazards set forth in
Nebraska Administrative Code Title 179, State Department of Health, and
approved by the Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   The customer shall make application to the Utilities Superintendent to
install a required backflow prevention device on a form provided by the
village. The application shall contain at a minimum the name and address of the
applicant, the type of potential hazard protection required and the type of
backflow device to be installed including brand and model number. The Utilities
Superintendent shall approve or disapprove the application based on his or her
opinion of whether such installation will protect the village water
distribution system from potential backflow and backsiphonage hazards.
   (C)   The installation of the device shall be subject to all other sections
of this code dealing with installation of plumbing, including the use of a
plumber licensed by the village, if applicable.
   (D)   Each customer shall also certify to the village annually that the
backflow prevention device, if equipped with a test port, has been tested by a
State Department of Health Grade VI certified water operator. Such
certification shall be made on a form available at the office of the Village
Clerk.
   (E)   All customers of the Water Department shall be required to report to
the Utilities Superintendent at least every five years any potential cross-
connections which may be on their premises.
   (F)   Any decision of the Utilities Superintendent may be appealed to the
Village Board.
(Ord. 91-14, passed 12-14-1991; Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-16-2015)
§ 7-220 WELLS AND OTHER UNDERGROUND FACILITIES; DISTANCE FROM VILLAGE WATER
SOURCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to cause pollution to or be in a position to
cause pollution to the public water supply by willfully or carelessly allowing
the following facilities, acts or events within the specified footage of any
village public water supply well.
   (B)   The following facilities, acts or events shall be defined as nuisances
for purposes of this section.
Chemical or petroleum product storage                    500 feet
Corral                                                   500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff                                1,000 feet
Land application of municipal/industrial waste material  1,000 feet
Pit toilet, vault toilet                                 500 feet
Sanitary landfill/dump                                   500 feet
Sanitary sewer connection                                100 feet
Sanitary sewer line                                      50 feet
Sanitary sewer manhole                                   100 feet
Sewage lagoon                                            1,000 feet
Sewage treatment plant                                   500 feet
Sewage wet well                                          500 feet
Underground disposal system (septic system and the like) 500 feet
Wastewater holding tank                                  500 feet
Water well                                               1,000 feet
 
(Ord. 90-8, passed 4-9-1990; Ord. 2002-2, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 7-221 WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA.
   (A)   The Village Board has designated a wellhead protection area for the
purpose of protecting the public water supply system. The boundaries of the
wellhead protection area are on the map attached to the ordinance codified in
this section.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA means the
surface and subsurface area surrounding a water well or well field supplying a
public water system through which contaminants are reasonably likely to move
toward and reach such water or well field.
(Ord. 98-10, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 7-222 WELLS AND OTHER UNDERGROUND FACILITIES; PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required. From and after the effective date of this section, it
shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other legal entity to drill
and/or operate any of the following facilities within the corporate limits of
the village without first having obtained the proper permit from the Village
Board: potable water well; any other well, sewage lagoon; absorption or
disposal field for water; cesspool; dumping grounds; feedlot; livestock pasture
or corral; chemical product storage facility; petroleum product storage
facility; pit toilet; sanitary landfill; septic tank; sewage treatment plant;
and sewage wet well.
   (B)   Procedure to obtain permit. In order to obtain a permit to drill and/
or operate any of the facilities listed above, the owner of the property on
which the proposed facility is to be located must make application with the
Village Board. Such application must be presented at any regular or special
meeting. After reviewing the application of any person desiring to drill or
operate any of the above-described facilities, then the Board must approve or
deny said permit.
   (C)   Penalties and abatement procedure. In the event any of the above
described facilities are installed or operated without first having obtained a
permit from the village or within a designated number of feet from the
municipal water supply, then such facilities shall be deemed a nuisance and the
Village Board shall abate such facility as a public nuisance. In addition
thereto, any person violating any of the terms of this section is hereby
determined to be guilty of a Class III misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 7-223 RESTRICTED USE; VILLAGE LIABILITY.
   (A)   The Village Board or the Utilities Superintendent may order a
reduction in the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the
event of a water shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause.
   (B)   The village shall not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off
the supply of water of any consumer while the system or any part thereof is
undergoing repairs or when there is a shortage of water due to circumstances
over which the village has no control.
(Ord. 92-5, passed 6-29-1992; Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-12-2005; Ord. 2010-2,
passed 3-8-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 7-224 WATER EMERGENCY; DEFINITIONS; CLASSES OF USE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CUSTOMER. The customer of record using water for any purpose from the
village’s water distribution system and for which either a regular charge is
made or, in the case of coin sales, a cash charge is made at the site of
delivery.
      WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to, permitting water to
escape down a gutter, ditch or other surface drain; or failure to repair a
controllable leak of water due to defective plumbing.
      WATER. Water available to the village for treatment by virtue of its
water rights or any treated water introduced by the village into its water
distribution system, including water offered for sale at any coin-operated
site.
   (B)   The following classes of uses of water are established.
      (1)   Class 1. Water used for outdoor watering, either public or private,
for gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses, playing fields,
swimming pools or other recreational areas; or the washing of motor vehicles,
boats, trailers or the exterior of any building or structure.
      (2)   Class 2. Water used for any commercial or industrial purpose,
including agricultural, except water actually necessary to maintain the health
and personal hygiene of bona fide employees while such employees are engaged in
the performance of their duties at their places of employment.
      (3)   Class 3. Domestic usage, other than that which would be included in
either Classes 1 or 2.
      (4)   Class 4. Water necessary only to sustain human life and the lives
of domestic pets and maintain standards of hygiene and sanitation.
   (C)   Whenever the Village Board finds that conditions indicating that the
probability of a drought or some other condition causing a major water supply
shortage is rising, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution that a water
watch exists and that it shall take steps to inform the public and ask for
voluntary reductions in water use. Such a watch shall be deemed to continue
until it is declared to have ended by resolution of the Village Board. The
resolutions declaring the existence and end of a water watch shall be effective
upon their publication in the official village newspaper.
   (D)   Whenever the Village Board finds that drought conditions or some other
condition causing a major water supply shortage are present and supplies are
starting to decline, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution that a
water warning exists and that it will recommend restrictions on nonessential
uses during the period of warning. Such a warning shall be deemed to continue
until it is declared to have ended by resolution of the Board. The resolutions
declaring the beginning and ending of the water warning shall be effective upon
their publication in the official village newspaper.
   (E)   Upon the declaration of a water watch or water warning as provided in
divisions (C) and (D) above, the Village Board shall have the power to adopt
emergency water rates by ordinance designed to conserve water supplies. Such
emergency rates may provide for, but not limited to:
      (1)   Higher charges for increasing usage per unit of use (increasing
block rates);
      (2)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit
rate); or
      (3)   Extra charges in excess of a specified level of water use (excess
demand surcharge).
   (F)   Whenever the Village Board finds that an emergency exists by reason of
a shortage of water supply needed for essential uses, it shall be empowered to
declare by resolution that a water supply emergency exists and that it will
impose mandatory restrictions on water use during the period of the emergency.
Such an emergency shall be deemed to continue until it is declared to have
ended by resolution of the Village Board. The resolutions declaring the
existence and end of a water supply emergency shall be effective upon their
publication in the official village newspaper.
   (G)   During the effective period of any water supply emergency as provided
for in division (F) above, the Village Chairperson or Water Superintendent is
empowered to promulgate such regulation as may be necessary to carry out the
provisions of this section, any water supply emergency resolution or emergency
water rate ordinance. Such regulations shall be subject to the approval of the
Village Board at its next regular or special meeting.
   (H)   If the Chairperson, Water Commissioner or other village official
charged with implementation and enforcement of this section or a water supply
emergency resolution learns of any violation of any water use restrictions
imposed herein, a written notice of the violation shall be affixed to the
property where the violation occurred and the customer of record or any other
person known to the village who is responsible for the violation or its
correction shall be provided with either actual or mailed notice. Said notice
shall describe the violation and order that it be corrected, cured or abated
immediately or within such specified time as the village determines is
reasonable under the circumstances. If the order is not complied with, the
village may terminate water service to the customer subject to the following
procedures.
      (1)   The village shall give the customer notice by mail or actual notice
that water service will be discontinued within a specified time due to the
violation and that the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the
termination by requesting a hearing scheduled before the Village Board or a
village official designated as a hearing officer by the Board.
      (2)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered.
      (3)   The Village Board or hearing officer shall make findings of fact
and order whether service should continue or be terminated.
   (I)   A fee shall be paid for the reconnection of any water service
terminated pursuant to division (H) above. In the event of subsequent
violations, higher reconnection fees shall be set for the second and for any
additional reconnections. All such fees shall be as set by the Village Board
and placed on file in the office of the Village Clerk.
   (J)   Any violation of this section may be prosecuted in County Court. Any
person so charged and found guilty of violation of the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a municipal offense. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense. The penalty for an initial violation shall be a
mandatory fine. In addition, such customer may be required by the court to
serve a definite term of confinement in the County Jail which shall be fixed by
the court and which shall not exceed 30 days. The penalty for a second or
subsequent conviction shall be a mandatory fine. In addition, such violator
shall serve a definite term of confinement in the County Jail which shall be
fixed by the court and which shall not exceed 30 days. Said fines shall be as
set by the Village Board and placed on file in the office of the Village Clerk.
   (K)   Nothing in this section shall limit the ability of any properly
authorized village official from terminating the supply of water to any or all
customers upon the determination of such official that emergency termination of
water service is required for protection of the health and safety of the
public.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 3-11-2002)
ARTICLE 3: SEWER DEPARTMENT
Section
   
7-301   Operation and funding
   
7-302   Definitions
   
7-303   Unlawful deposits and discharges; prohibited facilities
   
7-304   Mandatory hookup
   
7-305   Service to nonresidents
   
7-306   Consumer’s application
   
7-307   Sewer contract; not transferable
   
7-308   Installation expense
   
7-309   Repairs and maintenance
   
7-310   Installation or repair; procedure, materials
   
7-311   Use of existing sewers
   
7-312   Direct connection; specific conditions
   
7-313   Fee structure; classification
   
7-314   Sewer rates
   
7-315   User notification
   
7-316   Billing and collections
   
7-317   Manholes
   
7-318   Destruction of property
   
7-319   Private sewage disposal; permit
   
7-320   Prohibited discharges; waters
   
7-321   Hazardous discharges; pretreatment
§ 7-301 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The village owns and operates the village sewer system through the
Utilities Superintendent. The Village Board, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) of the village sewer
system may establish a user charge system based on actual use and revise the
charges, if necessary, to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain the proportional distribution of operation, maintenance
and replacement (OM&R) costs among users and user classes;
      (2)   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of OM&R; and
      (3)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of OM&R attributable to that class for the next year and adjust the rates
accordingly.
   (B)   The revenue from said user charge system based on actual use shall be
known as the Sewer Maintenance Fund. The Utilities Superintendent shall have
the direct management and control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority
to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Department subject to the supervision and review of the Village Board.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-574 and 17-925.01
§ 7-302 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE SEWER. Includes that part of a house or building drainage
system extending from the house or building drain to its connection with the
main sewer.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   PLUMBING FIXTURES. Includes receptacles intended to receive and discharge
water, liquids or water-carried wastes into the sewer system with which they
are connected.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer that is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries sewage and to which stormwaters,
surface waters and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
groundwater, surface water and stormwater as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Includes all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage.
   SOIL PIPE. Includes any pipe that conveys the discharge of water closets
with or without the discharge from other fixtures to the house or building
drain.
   STORM DRAIN. A sewer that carries storm and surface waters and drainage, but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent of the village sewage
system or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
§ 7-303 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS AND DISCHARGES; PROHIBITED FACILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste
in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the village,
within two miles of the corporate limits thereof or in any area under the
jurisdiction of said village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
village, within two miles of the corporate limits thereof or in any area under
its jurisdiction any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
article.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, cesspool or other facility intended or used
for the disposal of sewage. Septic tanks may be installed as provided in §
7-319.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff surface
drainage or polluted industrial process waters into the sanitary sewer.
   (E)   It shall further be unlawful to connect or maintain connected to the
sanitary sewer system any pump which pumps any of the above identified kinds of
water for any purpose whatsoever. In addition to the other remedies that are
provided by this chapter for violations of this code, the village shall have
the right to secure the abatement of any connection or discharging violation of
this section.
§ 7-304 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   (A)   The owner of any house, building or property used for human
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the village and
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer line of the village, is
hereby required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein and to connect such facilities directly with said public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this article within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 100 feet of
the property line.
   (B)   (1)   The village may furnish sewer service to persons within its
corporate limits whose property line is not within 100 feet of said public
sewer with permission from the Village Board, provided the entire cost of pipe
and other installation charges shall be paid by such consumer.
      (2)   Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the village to
provide sewer service to persons whose property line is not within 100 feet of
said public sewer.
   (C)   Each primary structure hereafter erected shall be connected with the
sewer system at the time of its erection. In the event that any property owner,
occupant or lessee shall neglect, fail or refuse to make such a connection with
the public sewer within a period of 90 days after notice has been given to him
or her to do so by registered mail or by publication in a newspaper in or of
general circulation in the village, the Village Board shall have the power to
cause the same to be done, to assess the cost thereof against the property and
to collect the assessment thus made in the manner provided for collection of
other special taxes and assessments or to collect in the manner provided for
the collection of sewer bills as provided herein.
§ 7-305 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   (A)   The village shall not supply sewer service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the Village Board; provided,
that the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe shall be
paid by the consumer.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the village to provide
sewer service to nonresidents.
(Ord. 2023-7, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 7-306 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application to the Utilities Superintendent, which shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the Superintendent. Sewer service may not be supplied to any house or
building except upon the order of the Utilities Superintendent.
(Neb. RS 19-2701)
§ 7-307 SEWER CONTRACT; NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   The rules, regulations and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in
this section shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for
sewer service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
customer now or hereafter served.
   (B)   The making of the application on the part of any applicant or the use
of sewer service by present customers thereof shall constitute a contract
between the customer and the village to which said contract both parties are
bound. If the customer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or
any reasonable rules and regulation that the Village Board may hereafter adopt,
the Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent may cut off or disconnect the
water service from the building or premises of such violation. No further
connection for water service to said building or premises shall again be made
save or except by order of the Superintendent or his or her agent.
   (C)   (1)   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person
wishing to change from one location to another shall make a new application and
sign a new contract. If any customer shall sell, dispose of or move from the
premises where service is furnished or if said premises are destroyed by fire
or other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent,
who shall cause the water service to be shut off at said premises.
      (2)   If the customer should fail to give notice, he or she shall be
charged for sewer service monthly until the official in charge of sewers is
otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Neb. RS 18-503)
§ 7-308 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer. The Utilities Superintendent, in his
or her discretion, may direct the customer to hire a plumber to tap the main.
The customer shall then be required to pay the expense of procuring the
materials required as well as any services of a plumber and shall pay all other
costs of installation.
(Ord. 89-4, passed 11-13-1989; Ord. 90-4, passed 4-9-1990; Ord. 95-11, passed
11-13-1995; Ord. 2003-7, passed 11-11-2003; Ord. 2005-8, passed 12-12-2005;
Ord. 2009-1, passed 1-12-2009; Ord. 2010-3, passed 3-8-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-503
§ 7-309 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The village may require the owner of any property which is within the
village and connected to the public sewers or drains to repair or replace any
connection line which serves the owner’s property and is broken, clogged or
otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property owner’s duty to repair
or replace such a connection line shall include those portions upon the owner’s
property and those portions upon public property or easements up to and
including the point of junction with the public main.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If, within 30 days of mailing such notice, the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Utilities
Superintendent shall complete the work and charge the cost of such repairs or
replacement to the customer.
(Neb. RS 18-1748)
§ 7-310 INSTALLATION OR REPAIR; PROCEDURE, MATERIALS.
   (A)   All installation or repair of any part of the sewerage system shall be
done under the supervision of the Utilities Superintendent and strictly in
accordance with the rules, regulations and specifications on file with the
Village Clerk and prescribed for such installation by the Village Engineer,
provided that said rules, regulations and specifications have been reviewed and
approved by the Village Board. Where the material proposed to be used for
sewerage system installation or repairs is not among those on file in the
Clerk’s office, a determination shall be made and expense paid using the same
procedures as prescribed for determinations of materials for water mains,
supply lines and service lines.
   (B)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade and, during the night, warning lights.
   (C)   After the sewer is laid, the public ways and property shall be
restored to good condition. If the excavation in the public ways and property
is left open or unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities
Superintendent shall have the duty to finish or correct the work, and all
expenses so incurred shall be charged to the owner, occupant or lessee of the
property.
   (D)   All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by the
Utilities Superintendent: when connections or repairs are complete and before
the pipes are covered; and after the dirt work is completed and the service
restored. It is the customer’s responsibility to notify the Superintendent at
the time the work is ready for each inspection.
(Neb. RS 18-503)
§ 7-311 USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   (A)   Old building sewers and drains may be used in connection with new
buildings or new plumbing only when they are found, on examination by the
Utilities Superintendent, to conform in all respects to the requirements
governing new sewers and drains.
   (B)   If the old work is found defective or otherwise unsatisfactory, the
Superintendent shall notify the owner to make the necessary changes to conform
to the provisions of the village code.
§ 7-312 DIRECT CONNECTION; SPECIFIC CONDITIONS.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building. Where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot
and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from
the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer, but the village does not and will not assume
any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any
such single connection aforementioned.
(Neb. RS 18-503)
§ 7-313 FEE STRUCTURE; CLASSIFICATION.
   For the purpose of rental fees, the Village Board may classify the customers
of the Sewer Department, provided that such classifications are reasonable and
do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of consumers.
(Neb. RS 17-925.02)
§ 7-314 SEWER RATES.
   (A)   The Village Board has the power and authority to set the rates to be
paid by the sewer customers for the use of sewer service. Customers of the
Sewer Department shall be charged a flat rate for the use of sewer service. All
such rates shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the Village
Clerk, and all sewer customers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
ordinance.
   (B)   The charges established by ordinance for the use of the municipal
sewage system of the village are hereby found and declared to be made and
established on a fair and impartial basis for the services rendered by the
village.
   (C)   (1)   All sewer use charges provided for by this section shall be
billed monthly for service during the preceding month and shall be due and
payable as of that time. All monthly bills shall be mailed by the village to
the consumer on or about the twentieth day of the month preceding the month in
which the monthly bill is owed.
      (2)   All bills shall be payable on the first day of the month following
the period of service and shall be paid to the Village Clerk or his or her
designate. If any charge for the services of the sewer system shall not be paid
by the fifth day of the month in which it shall become due and payable, a
charge of $25, plus tax, shall be added thereto and collected therewith. If any
bills for the service of the sewer system shall remain unpaid after the
twentieth day for two months following the rendition of the sewer charges, the
sewer service shall be disconnected and shall not be reconnected except upon
payment in full of the delinquent charges assessed and upon further payment of
a reconnect fee of $25.
      (3)   The village shall mail written notice to the consumer after the
fifth day of the month where any charge for the services of the sewer system
shall be due informing the consumer that the delinquency exists. The village
may also take any action authorized by law to effect collection of the
delinquent charges.
      (4)   All sewer use charges prescribed by this section shall be a lien
upon the premises and the real estate for which the sewer use service is
supplied and used, and, if not paid when due, such charge shall be certified to
the Village Treasurer and may be recovered by the village in an action at law
from the owner or person, firm or corporation using the service, or it may be
certified to the tax assessor and assessed against the premises serviced, or
collected or returned in the same manner as other municipal taxes are
certified, assessed, collected and returned.
      (5)   Users commencing or ending their use of the sewerage system after
the first day of any month shall pay the sewer use charge for said part of the
period pro rata for the number of days such service is used during such partial
period for the service furnished.
   (D)   (1)   For the use of said sanitary sewerage system, each residential,
business or apartment user shall pay a monthly sewer use charge in the amount
of $51.50. For the purpose of this section, the term USER shall consist of one
family or one business or establishment, and, in the event that there are
multiple families or multiple businesses or establishments, excluding the ESU
Clearwater Learning Center, using the same sewer connection, each user shall
pay the sewer use charge hereby established.
      (2)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees hereby find and determine
that the ESU Clearwater Learning Center, served by said municipal sewerage
system, shall be a separately classified user and that the Center shall pay a
monthly sewer charge of $103. The rates applicable shall be as follows:
 
User                Monthly Rate
Apartment           $51.50 (per unit)
Commercial          $51.50 (per hook up)
ESU Learning Center $103
Residential         $51.50 (per hook up)
 
(Ord. 2023-7, passed 8-14-2023; Ord. 2026-2, passed 3-9-2026)
§ 7-315 USER NOTIFICATION.
   Each user will be notified, at least annually, with a regular bill, of the
rate and that portion of the user charges ad valorem taxes which are
attributable to wastewater treatment.
§ 7-316 BILLING AND COLLECTIONS.
   The Village Clerk shall bill the consumers and collect all money received by
the village on the account of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully account
for and pay to the Village Treasurer all revenue collected. Billing, collection
and termination procedures are set forth in §§
7-102 and
7-103.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
§ 7-317 MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the sewer system any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the sewer system.
§ 7-318 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating this provision shall be subject to
immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
§ 7-319 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL; PERMIT.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions herein, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage
disposal system complying with the provisions of this article.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Utilities
Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the village, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Utilities Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with the State Department of Environmental Quality Title
124 Rules and Regulations for the Design, Operation and Maintenance of Septic
Tank Systems.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer in compliance with this chapter within 60 days and the private
sewage system shall be abandoned in accordance with Nebraska Administrative
Code Title 124 as provided in division (D) above.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the village.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the health officer.
   (H)   No statement contained in this article shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by state or federal law.
§ 7-320 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; WATERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof run-off, exterior or interior foundation
drainage or subsurface drainage to any sanitary sewer. Uncontaminated cooling
water or heating water and unpolluted industrial process waters may be
discharged to a sanitary sewer only if expressly authorized by the Water
Commissioner.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers
or to a natural outlet approved by the Utilities Superintendent. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet. The
contributor of any identifiable discharge of polluted water to the sanitary
sewer system shall be held responsible for reimbursing the village for such
costs. The costs shall be determined by the Superintendent.
§ 7-321 HAZARDOUS DISCHARGES; PRETREATMENT.
   Specific prohibitions, options for handling hazardous discharges, compliance
procedures and penalties for violations shall be as provided by the
requirements of applicable regulations, laws, codes and ordinances, including
40 C.F.R. part 403.
ARTICLE 4: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
7-401   Operation and funding
   
7-402   Garbage pickup service
   
7-403   Hazardous waste or waste requiring special handling
   
7-404   Additional regulations
§ 7-401 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   All revenues and money derived from the operation of the garbage
pickup service shall be paid to and held by the Village Clerk separate and
apart from all other funds of the village. All other funds and money incident
to the operation of the garbage pickup service as may be delivered to said
Clerk shall be deposited in a separate fund designated the Village Garbage
Service Revenue Fund Account, and said funds said shall be administered in
every respect in a manner provided by the state statutes and all other laws
pertaining thereto.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper records, books and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the garbage pickup
service system. The Village Board may cause an annual audit of the books to be
made by an independent auditor to show the receipts and disbursements relevant
to the garbage pickup service system.
(Ord. 92-6, passed 6-29-1992; Ord. 93-6, passed 9-13-1993; Ord. 2003-8, passed
11-11-2003; Ord. 2005-9, passed 12-12-2005; Ord. 2007-4, passed 10-15-2007;
Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-11-2013)
§ 7-402 GARBAGE PICKUP SERVICE.
   (A)   There shall be, and there hereby is, established a garbage pickup
service charge for the use of and for the service supplied by the village,
based on monthly rates for residential and commercial properties. The charges
shall be billed monthly and are based on one tote for each resident or business
or one dumpster for commercial. The monthly rate applicable for monthly garbage
pickup service shall be provided by ordinance.
   (B)   All residential consumers who are at least 65 years of age shall
supply verified proof of age on forms provided by the village. Otherwise, said
customers shall be charged the regular rate for residential properties. In lieu
of the above rate system, a customer with both residential and commercial trash
services may pay a flat monthly rate for service at one residence and one
commercial location to be charged to the business.
   (C)   One tote will be provided by Bud’s Sanitary Service to each pickup
location except for commercial properties that already maintain a dumpster.
Totes are to remain at the location where they are delivered. The village may
provide an additional tote, if required, at a cost of $5/month per tote. Up to
three are allowed per property. Garbage pickup service provided through the
village shall be by contract established by and between the village and Bud’s
Sanitary Service to provide said service.
(Ord. 92-6, passed 6-29-1992; Ord. 93-6, passed 9-13-1993; Ord. 2003-8, passed
11-11-2003; Ord. 2005-9, passed 12-12-2005; Ord. 2007-4, passed 10-15-2007;
Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-11-2013; Ord. 2023-9, passed 9-11-2022)
§ 7-403 HAZARDOUS WASTE OR WASTE REQUIRING SPECIAL HANDLING.
   Any person, firm or corporation within the village’s solid waste
jurisdiction area generating or creating hazardous waste or waste requiring
special handling or disposal shall be responsible for the transportation and
disposal of the same. All such handling and disposal shall in all respects
comply with state and federal laws and regulations pertaining to the specific
type of waste generated.
(Ord. 92-6, passed 6-29-1992; Ord. 93-6, passed 9-13-1993; Ord. 2003-8, passed
11-11-2003; Ord. 2005-9, passed 12-12-2005; Ord. 2007-4, passed 10-15-2007;
Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-11-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020, 13-2023 and 13-2026
§ 7-404 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The Village Board may from time to time make and adopt by ordinance such
additional rules and regulations governing the use, operations and control of
the solid waste collection and disposal system and the regulation of solid
waste within the village’s solid waste jurisdiction area as it may deem
necessary to promote the efficient operation and management of the system and
to protect the environment and the health, safety and welfare of all persons
within the jurisdiction area.
(Ord. 92-6, passed 6-29-1992; Ord. 93-6, passed 9-13-1993; Ord. 2003-8, passed
11-11-2003; Ord. 2005-9, passed 12-12-2005; Ord. 2007-4, passed 10-15-2007;
Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-11-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020, 13-2023 and 13-2026
ARTICLE 5: PENAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
7-501   Violation; penalty
§ 7-501 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
CHAPTER 8: FIRE REGULATIONS AND OTHER HAZARDS
   Article
      
1.   FIRE DEPARTMENT AND RESCUE SQUAD
      
2.   FIRES
      
3.   FIRE PREVENTION; HAZARD MITIGATION
      
4.   EXPLOSIVES; POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES
      
5.   FIREWORKS
      
6.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: FIRE DEPARTMENT AND RESCUE SQUAD
Section
   
8-101   Operation and funding; agreement with Rural Fire District
   
8-102   Fires
   
8-103   Rescue squad
   
8-104   Fire Chief
   
8-105   Membership
   
8-106   Equipment
   
8-107   Communications equipment
   
8-108   Impersonating firefighter
§ 8-101 OPERATION AND FUNDING; AGREEMENT WITH RURAL FIRE DISTRICT.
   (A)   The village operates the Fire Department and Rescue Squad through the
Village Fire Chief and firefighters. The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire
Department. The Village Board, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, maintenance and improvement of the Fire Department may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limits prescribed by state law on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the village
that is subject to taxation. The revenue from said tax shall be placed in the
Fire Fund, which shall be in the possession of the Village Treasurer. Said
monies so levied and collected shall be set aside in the village budget as the
Fire Department budget and the Rescue Squad budget for defraying the cost of
those departments.
   (B)   In addition, the Fire Department is authorized to enter into an
agreement with the appropriate Rural Fire District for the mutual aid and
protection of the residents of both the village and the Rural Fire District.
Such an agreement shall provide for mutual aid, protection and a sharing of
necessary expenses between the village and the Rural Fire District. The
agreement so entered into shall be on file in the office of the Village Clerk
for public inspection during office hours.
   (C)   The following issues of sharing of the cost of the Fire Department
were discussed and approved at the regular Village Board meeting of the on
April 11, 2005, with the Rural Fire Board in attendance and with their
approval. This agreement with both Boards will be reviewed and changed as
needed at the regular Village Board meeting in January of each year. Both the
Rural Board and the Village Board will carry their insurance with the same
insurance company.
      (1)   The village shall:
         (a)   Own the building;
         (b)   Pay for the insurance on the building;
         (c)   Pay for the upkeep of the building;
         (d)   Pay the utilities;
         (e)   Maintain and own the ambulances;
         (f)   Share the insurance on the EMTs and the firefighters;
         (g)   Maintain the pagers and share in the purchase of new ones as
needed;
         (h)   Gas will be paid for when the rescue unit runs or fire runs are
in town; and
         (i)   Share the cost of fire equipment for the firefighters.
      (2)   The Rural Board shall:
         (a)   Own the fire vehicles;
         (b)   Pay for the insurance on vehicles;
         (c)   Pay for the upkeep of the fire vehicles;
         (d)   Share the insurance on the EMT’s and firefighters;
         (e)   Help with the purchase of pagers as needed;
         (f)   Fuel will be paid for when the rescue unit runs or fire runs are
in the country; and
         (g)   Share the cost of fire equipment for the firefighters.
(Res. 2005-3, passed 4-11-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-718, 35-501 and 35-530
§ 8-102 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the village and to secure
the observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and regulations with
respect to fires and fire prevention.
§ 8-103 RESCUE SQUAD.
   The Fire Department may also operate a rescue unit for the benefit of those
within the Fire Protection District. They shall make rules and regulations for
the proper and effective use of emergency rescue equipment and for the adequate
training of personnel to man this equipment subject to the review of the
Village Board. It shall be the duty of the official in charge of the Rescue
Squad, during the time of a rescue call, to ensure that every victim of mishap
is aided or aided and transported to the emergency room of the nearest
hospital. When available, rescue personnel shall respond to all fire calls.
(Neb. RS 35-514.02)
 § 8-104 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire Department.
He or she shall manage the Fire Department and it shall be his or her duty to
inform the Village Board when any of the fire engines, hose, ladders or other
apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive of the Board,
the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement or maintenance of said
equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the same. It shall be
the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the Village Board at the regular
meeting in January each year to give a report of the general condition and the
proposed additions or improvements recommended by him or her.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall, before December 1 each year, file with the
Village Clerk a certified copy of the roles of all members in good standing in
their respective companies in order to obtain the exemptions provided by law.
   (C)   The Chief shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the
prevention of fires; the storage and use of explosives and flammable
substances; the installation of fire alarm systems; the regulation of fire
escapes; and the inspection of all premises requiring adequate fire escapes.
The Fire Chief shall have the right to enter at all reasonable hours into
buildings and upon all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the purpose
of examining the same for fire hazards and related dangers. The Chief shall
investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of fires arising within his or
her jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505, 35-102, 35-108, 81-506 and 81-512
§ 8-105 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall appoint no more than 25 members for each Fire
Department company, subject to the review and approval of the Board of
Trustees. All vacancies shall be filled in this manner.
   (B)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations and shall perform such duties as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the Board of Trustees. The secretary shall keep
a record of all meetings. All records shall be available to the public at any
reasonable time.
   (D)   Members of the Fire Department shall be considered to be employees of
the village for the purpose of providing them with workers’ compensation and
other benefits. The Board of Trustees may compensate or reimburse any member of
the Fire Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in
an amount set by resolution. The Board shall purchase and maintain in force a
policy of group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the
village’s active volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such
person serves more than one municipality or rural or suburban fire protection
district, the policy shall be purchased only by the first entity or district
which he or she serves. The policy shall provide a minimum death benefit of
$10,000 for death from any cause and shall, at the option of the insured, be
convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at age 65. The coverage of
such policy shall terminate as to any individual who ceases to be an active
volunteer member of the Fire Department.
   (E)   For purposes of Neb. RS 33-139.01, volunteer firefighters and rescue
squad members testifying as witnesses in that capacity alone shall not be
deemed employees of the village.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-1-1983; Ord. 371, passed 3-12-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 33-139.01, 35-101 through 35-103 and 35-108
§ 8-106 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the
members of the Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way
to interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the village.
(Neb. RS 28-519)
   (B)   Fire equipment may not be removed from the Fire Department without
prior approval of Department personnel. Village employees shall not be involved
in the fire or rescue actions other than as firefighters or Rescue Squad
members. Maintenance of the Fire Department building is the responsibility of
the Village Board. The temperature control of the building shall be
administered to ensure that oxygen and other equipment of the Rescue Squad and
other department companies are maintained at safe operating and administration
temperatures.
§ 8-107 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.
   No unauthorized person shall operate any radio or communications equipment
of the Fire Department. All persons authorized to operate said equipment shall
do so only as authorized by the license granted to that particular piece of
equipment and shall strictly comply with all of the rules and regulations
established.
§ 8-108 IMPERSONATING FIREFIGHTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely personate a firefighter by
wearing a badge or other apparel usually worn by a firefighter for the purpose
of obtaining any benefit whatsoever. Nothing in this section shall be construed
to prohibit the theatrical representation of a firefighter for bona fide
entertainment purposes when there is no intent to defraud.
(Neb. RS 28-609)
ARTICLE 2: FIRES
Section
   
8-201   Preservation of property
   
8-202   Traffic
   
8-203   Pedestrians
   
8-204   Driving over hose
   
8-205   False alarm
   
8-206   Mandatory assistance
   
8-207   Interference
   
8-208   Fire investigation
§ 8-201 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any official of the Fire Department shall have the power during the time of
a fire to cause the removal of any private or public property whenever it shall
become necessary to do so for the preservation of such property from fire, to
prevent the spreading of fire or to protect adjoining property. Said officials
may direct the firefighters to remove any building, structure or fence for the
purpose of checking the progress of any fire.
§ 8-202 TRAFFIC.
   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500
feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus
has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Neb. RS 60-6,183)
§ 8-203 PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(Neb. RS 28-908)
§ 8-204 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or assistant Fire Chief to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 60-6,184)
§ 8-205 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907 and 35-520
§ 8-206 MANDATORY ASSISTANCE.
   Any official of the Fire Department may command the assistance and services
of any person present at a fire to help in extinguishing the fire or in the
removal and protection of property. In the event that a spectator refuses,
neglects or fails to assist the Fire Department after a lawful order to do so,
he or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 8-207 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance of their
duties. A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if at
any time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to
discharge any official duties he or she willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty;
   (B)   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties;
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire or
exhorts another person, as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation
to protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Neb. RS 28-908)
§ 8-208 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the cause,
origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the village by which
property has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown origin shall be
reported, and such officer shall especially make an investigation and report as
to whether such fire was the result of carelessness, accident or design. The
investigation shall begin immediately after the occurrence of the fire, and the
State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the
investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary. The officer
making the investigation of fires occurring in the village shall forthwith
notify the State Fire Marshal and shall, within one week of the occurrence of
the fire, furnish him or her a written statement of all the facts relating to
the cause and origin of the fire and such further information as he or she may
call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506)
ARTICLE 3: FIRE PREVENTION; HAZARD MITIGATION
Section
   
8-301   Fire Code
   
8-302   Life Safety Code
   
8-303   Code enforcement
   
8-304   Open burning ban; waiver
   
8-305   Outdoor fire pits and fireplaces
   
8-306   Inspections; violation notice
   
8-307   Prohibited fuels
   
8-308   Hazard mitigation
§ 8-301 FIRE CODE.
   All of the provisions of the 2024 or later edition of the Fire Code, as
published by the National Fire Protection Association and recommended by the
American Insurance Association, are hereby adopted by reference as part of this
chapter. One digital copy, together with all revisions of and amendments
thereto, shall be available in the office of the Village Clerk for public
inspection during office hours. In the event that any of the provisions of said
code are in conflict with any of the provisions of the municipal code, the
provisions of the municipal code shall prevail.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902, 19-922 and 81-502
§ 8-302 LIFE SAFETY CODE.
   Incorporated by reference into this municipal code are the standards
recommended by the National Fire Protection Association known as the Life
Safety Code, 2024 or later edition and all subsequent amendments. This code
shall have the same force and effect as if set out verbatim herein. One digital
copy of the Life Safety Code shall be on file with the Village Clerk, available
for public inspection during office hours.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902 and 81-502
§ 8-303 CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all village officials to enforce the incorporated
fire code provisions as provided in §§
8-301 and
8-302, and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the attention of the
Fire Chief.
§ 8-304 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive an open burning ban
under division (A) above for an area under his or her jurisdiction by issuing
an open burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct open
burning. Said person shall make application on a form provided by the State
Fire Marshal. The permit shall be signed by the Fire Chief or his or her
designee. The Fire Chief may adopt and promulgate rules and regulations listing
the conditions acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct open burning.
   (C)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open burning ban
in his or her jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Chief or his
or her designee. Anyone burning in such jurisdiction when the open burning ban
has been waived shall notify the Fire Department of his or her intention to
burn.
   (D)   The Fire Department may set and charge a fee for each such permit
issued. Such fees shall be remitted to the Village Board for inclusion in the
general funds allocated to the Fire Department. Such funds shall not reduce the
tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee shall be collected from
any state or political subdivision to which such a permit is issued to conduct
open burning under division (B) above in the course of such state’s or
political subdivision’s official duties.
(Neb. RS 81-520.01)
§ 8-305 OUTDOOR FIRE PITS AND FIREPLACES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHIMINEAS. Outdoor patio fireplaces, usually made from clay, intended to
confine and control outdoor wood fires.
      FIRE PITS. Pits which are usually constructed of steel, concrete and/or
stone, and constructed above ground with a heavy steel screen cover.
      OUTDOOR FIREPLACES. Includes fire pits, portable fire pits and chimineas.
These residential outdoor fireplaces use wood as a fuel and are used for
containing recreational fires located at a private residence for the purpose of
outdoor cooking and personal enjoyment. OUTDOOR FIREPLACES do not include
barbeque grills that use propane or charcoal as a fuel and are used primarily
for outdoor cooking.
      PORTABLE FIRE PITS. Fire pits that are commercially designed and intended
to confine and control outdoor wood fires.
   (B)   All outdoor fireplaces shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Clearances. A minimum ten-foot clearance shall be maintained
between the outdoor fireplace and combustible structure or materials such as
walls, roofs, fences, decks, wood piles and other combustible material.
      (2)   Construction. Outdoor fireplaces shall be constructed of concrete
or approved non-combustible materials. The fire fuel area and openings shall be
completely enclosed by a steel screening (spark guard) or an approved non-
combustible screening material with openings no greater than one-half inch
square. Vent stacks, chimneys and chimineas shall have a steel screen cover
made of heavy wire mesh or other non-combustible material with openings no
greater larger than one-half inch square. Not permitted are barrels, half-
barrels, drums or similarly constructed devices.
      (3)   Size. The fuel area for a fire pit shall not be larger than three
feet in diameter and a height of more than three feet.
      (4)   Location. Outdoor fireplaces shall be placed on a stable non-
combustible surface such as a concrete pad and only at grade level. Outdoor
fireplaces shall not be located on combustible balconies or decks and shall not
be located under any combustible balcony or any overhanging portion of a
structure.
      (5)   Type of materials being burnt. Materials allowed by this section
shall be limited to untreated wood or approved fireplace starter logs.
Petroleum products, rubbish, grass, leaves, cardboard, plastics, rubber or any
material that may flow out of the containment or cause excessive heat, smoke or
offensive smell shall not be permitted.
      (6)   Amount of materials being burnt. Users must limit the amount of
material being burnt to ensure the flames are confined inside the fuel area of
the outdoor fireplace and the flames do not extend above the pit or into the
chimney, and follow the manufacturer’s recommendation on the maximum amount of
fuel to be used at one time with spark guard in place.
      (7)   Supervision. Outdoor fireplaces shall be under constant supervision
by at least one responsible person of age 18 or older from the ignition of the
fire until the fire is completely extinguished and embers are cooled so as to
prohibit the fire from rekindling.
      (8)   Provisions for protection. A garden hose connected to a water
supply or other approved fire extinguishing equipment shall be readily
available for use.
      (9)   Wind and weather conditions. Outdoor fireplaces shall be completely
extinguished and/or not be operated when winds are blowing over 12 mph and wind
direction will cause smoke, embers or other burning materials to be carried by
the wind toward any building or other combustible materials. Outdoor fireplaces
shall not be operated when weather conditions are extremely dry.
      (10)   Maintenance. The owner is responsible to ensure proper maintenance
and care is accomplished in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions. At the
minimum, the outdoor fireplace will be checked regularly for the appearance of
cracks and other physical deterioration or loose parts.
      (11)   Discontinuance. Smoke from any outdoor fireplace shall not create
a nuisance for neighboring property owners. The fire shall be extinguished
immediately upon the complaint of the neighboring property owner of any smoke
nuisance. The Fire Chief or an authorized representative has the authority to
require outdoor fireplace use to be immediately discontinued if such use is
determined to constitute a hazardous condition to occupants of surrounding
property.
      (12)   Building permit. For a fire pit, a site plan showing the location
of the fire pit on the property and a detailed drawing of the construction of
the fire pit shall be submitted to the village for review. A building permit
will be issued based on approved plans. A building permit is not required for
portable fire pits or chimineas, provided they are commercially designed and
have been approved by an independent testing laboratory.
      (13)   Hours of operation. An outdoor fireplace shall be completely
extinguished and embers cooled so as to prohibit the fire from rekindling prior
to 11:00 p.m.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556 and 81-520.01
§ 8-306 INSPECTIONS; VIOLATION NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the
Village Board, to inspect or cause to be inspected by a Fire Department
officer, member or some other official as often as may be necessary all
buildings, premises and public thoroughfares, except the interiors of private
dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be corrected any
conditions liable to create a fire hazard. It shall be the duty of the owner,
lessee or occupant of any building or structure, except the interiors of
private dwellings, to allow the fire inspector to inspect the structure for
purposes of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are likely
to cause fire or any other violations of the provisions of the village
ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
   (B)   The inspection shall be of the storage, sale and use of flammable
liquids, combustibles and explosives; electric wiring and heating; and the
means and adequacy of exits in case of fire in schools, churches, hotels,
halls, theaters, factories, hospitals and all other buildings in which numbers
of persons congregate from time to time for any purpose whether publicly or
privately owned; the design, construction, location, installation and operation
of equipment for storing, handling and utilizing of liquefied petroleum gases,
specifying the odorization of said gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals,
prozylin plastics, nitrocellulose films or any other hazardous material that
may now or hereafter exist.
(Neb. RS 81-512)
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building
or structure that was lawfully inspected as herein prescribed and who receives
written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of the village
ordinances to correct such condition within five days from the receipt of such
notice.
§ 8-307 PROHIBITED FUELS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow to be burned crank
case drainings, or to burn oil or other flammable substances, other than wood,
in a homemade stove.
§ 8-308 HAZARD MITIGATION.
   The governing body of the village does herewith adopt the most recent and
FEMA-approved version of the Tri-County Hazard Mitigation Plan 2023 in its
entirety.
(Res. 2023-10, passed 5-8-2023)
ARTICLE 4: EXPLOSIVES; POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES
Section
   
8-401   Explosives; storage; registration
   
8-402   Explosives; bullets
   
8-403   Explosives; blasting permits
   
8-404   Poisonous or flammable gases
§ 8-401 EXPLOSIVES; STORAGE; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation storing or keeping dynamite,
gunpowder, nitroglycerine or other high explosives within the village for any
period of time shall register such information with the Village Clerk within
ten days after such explosives are brought into the village. The Clerk shall
provide such information to the Fire Chief and to the Village Board. Transfer
of explosives to another individual within the village shall require the
individual receiving the explosives to register the transfer and the new
location of the explosives with the Clerk. Also, moving explosives to a new
location by the owner shall require registration of that fact to the Clerk.
   (B)   All high explosives, including dynamite, gunpowder and nitroglycerine,
shall be stored in a proper receptacle which shall be closed at all times
except when actually in use. Such cement, metal or stone receptacle shall not
be located in any room where there is a flame or flammable materials. The area
surrounding the storage facilities shall be kept clear of rubbish, brush, dry
grass or trees for not less than 25 feet in all directions. Any other
combustible materials shall be kept a distance of not less than 50 feet from
outdoor storage facilities.
(Neb. RS 17-549)
§ 8-402 EXPLOSIVES; BULLETS.
   Cartridges, shells and percussion caps shall be kept in their original
containers away from flame, flammable materials and high explosives.
§ 8-403 EXPLOSIVES; BLASTING PERMITS.
   Any person wishing to discharge high explosives within the village must
secure a permit from the Village Board and shall discharge such explosives in
conformance with their direction and under their supervision, and in no case
shall any person perform blasting operations unless operating under the direct
supervision of a person in possession of a valid user’s permit issued by the
State Patrol.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556 and 28-1229
§ 8-404 POISONOUS OR FLAMMABLE GASES.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to store or keep in the village any
form of poisonous or flammable gas or liquefied petroleum gas in excess of 100
gallons or to add to, enlarge or replace any facility used for the storage of
such gases must first get a permit from the Village Board, which shall require
the name of the gas, the place of storage and the amount of gas stored. If
permission is granted, the Board shall prescribe such rules, regulations and
precautionary actions as it may deem necessary. (Neb. RS 17-549)
ARTICLE 5: FIREWORKS
Section
   
8-501   Regulation of use, sale, possession of fireworks
§ 8-501 REGULATION OF USE, SALE, POSSESSION OF FIREWORKS.
   The use, sale, offer for sale and possession of permissible fireworks in the
village as defined by Neb. RS 28-1241 shall be governed and regulated by Neb.
RS 28-1241 through 28-1252, including any and all amendments thereto, together
with any rules and regulations adopted by the State Fire Marshal for the
enforcement of said sections.
ARTICLE 6: PENAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
8-601   Violation; penalty
§ 8-601 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Ord. 358, passed 12-17-2001)
CHAPTER 9: BUILDING REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   BUILDING INSPECTOR
      
2.   BUILDING PERMITS
      
3.   BUILDING MOVING
      
4.   CODES ADOPTED
      
5.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: BUILDING INSPECTOR
Section
   
9-101   Powers and authority
   
9-102   Right of entry
   
9-103   Permit card
   
9-104   Time of inspection
   
9-105   Appeal from decision
   
9-106   Barricades and lights
§ 9-101 POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector shall be the village official who shall have the duty
of enforcing all building and housing regulations as herein prescribed. He or
she may be removed at any time for good and sufficient cause by the Village
Board. In the event that the Board fails to appoint a Building Inspector, the
Utilities Superintendent shall be the Building Inspector ex officio. The duties
of the Building Inspector shall be as follows.
   (A)   He or she shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built or
moved in the village as often as necessary to ensure compliance with all
village ordinances and is authorized, upon properly identifying himself or
herself, to enter, inspect, survey and investigate between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 5:00 p.m. or at any time if an emergency exists or if requested by the
owner or occupant thereof. He or she shall also investigate all complaints,
whether verbal, written or in the form of a petition, alleging and charging
that a violation of the municipal ordinances exists and that a building or
structure is unfit or unsafe for human habitation.
   (B)   He or she shall, at the direction of the Village Board, issue
permission to continue any construction, alteration or relocation when the
Board is satisfied that no provision will be violated. If the stop order is an
oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop order within one hour. Such
written order may be served by the Chairperson or designated agent.
   (C)   He or she shall have no financial interest in the furnishing of labor,
materials or appliances for the construction, alteration or maintenance of a
building, except where he or she is the owner of a building, and he or she
shall not act as an agent for any said dealer or as an agent for the sale,
lease or rental of any real estate.
   (D)   He or she shall keep records of all complaints received, inspection
reports, orders and complaints issued. The records shall be available for
public inspection, and he or she shall prepare an annual report based on the
records kept. He or she shall report to the Village Board as often as may be
deemed necessary.
   (E)   He or she shall have such other duties and issue such permits as the
Board may direct.
§ 9-102 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
§ 9-103 PERMIT CARD.
   Upon the issuance of a building permit, the Building Inspector shall furnish
to the applicant a permit card, which shall be a distinctive color and shall
contain the nature of the work, the location of the building, the number of the
permit and the date of issuance. The card shall be prominently displayed on the
principal frontage of the building site close to or upon the building or
structure and shall so remain until the final inspection has been made.
§ 9-104 TIME OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or
his or her agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or
structure and shall either approve that portion of the construction as
completed or shall notify the permit holder or his or her agent that the work
fails to comply with the requirements of the village code:
      (1)   Foundation inspection shall be made after trenches are excavated
and the necessary forms erected;
      (2)   Frame inspection shall be made after the roof, framing, fire-
blocking and backing is in place and all pipes, chimneys and vents are
complete; and
      (3)   Final inspection shall be made after the building is completed and
ready for occupancy.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do work or cause work to be
done beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without the
written approval of the Building Inspector.
§ 9-105 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of any village
building or housing regulation has been wrongly interpreted by the Building
Inspector, that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the Building
Inspector is too short, or that conditions peculiar to a particular building
make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by
the regulation and by the Building Inspector, the owner, his or her agent or
the occupant may file a notice of appeal within ten days after the decision or
order of the Building Inspector has been made. The Board of Trustees shall hear
all appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify
the decision or order of the Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be
final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons
why the variance should be made. A variance shall be granted only where it is
evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured and may include
conditions not generally specified by the building or housing regulation to
achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted shall be sent to both the
Building Inspector and the applicant.
§ 9-106 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant or lessee causing the
construction, demolition or moving of any building or improvement within the
village to have all excavations, open basements, building materials and debris
protected by suitable guards or barricades by day and by warning lights at
night during the time that such work is in progress. The failure, neglect or
refusal of said persons to erect such guards shall constitute a violation of
this section, and the Chairperson or designated agent or the Building Inspector
shall stop all work until guards are erected and maintained as required.
ARTICLE 2: BUILDING PERMITS
Section
   
9-201   Application
   
9-202   Limitation
   
9-203   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
9-204   Radon; construction
§ 9-201 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct,
repair, enlarge, demolish or relocate any building or dwelling or cause the
same to be done shall file with the Village Clerk an application for a building
permit. Examples of projects requiring a building permit include, but are not
limited to, decks/porches, additions, garages or other permanent structures,
sheds, fences, driveways, new water or wastewater lines, ponds or swimming
pools and signposts. Conversely, examples of projects not requiring a building
permit include replacing roofing, siding or windows, replacing fencing, trees
or signposts into existing holes, replacing existing water or wastewater lines,
concrete slabs that will not have buildings on them, underground sprinklers and
dog kennels that are free-standing and do not tether to the ground. However,
projects that are located in a floodplain that result in a change to the
property that is otherwise exempt from a building permit must still be
submitted to the village for review and approval.
   (B)   The application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the
Village Clerk. Every such application shall set forth the legal description of
the land upon which the construction or relocation is to take place, the nature
of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the estimated cost, the
names of the owner, architect and contractor and such other information as may
be requested thereon. The application also shall include an agreement by the
applicant to repair or replace any sidewalks removed or damaged during
construction. The application, plans and specifications so filed with the
Village Clerk shall be checked and examined by the Village Board, and if they
are found to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter and all
other ordinances applicable thereto, the Board shall authorize the Village
Clerk to issue said applicant a permit.
   (C)   Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit application procedures
contained herein and those contained in any building code adopted by reference,
the provisions contained herein shall govern.
   (D)   The fee for a building permit shall be $10, which shall be paid in
full at the time the application is submitted.
(Ord. 2026-3, passed 5-11-2026)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550 and 17-1001
§ 9-202 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof or if the construction is discontinued for a
period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
§ 9-203 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair
of any building within the village’s jurisdiction and the cost of the
improvement is $2,500 or more, a duplicate of such permit shall be filed with
the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743)
§ 9-204 RADON; CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Legislative findings. The legislature finds that:
      (1)   Radon is a radioactive element that is part of the radioactive
decay chain of naturally occurring uranium in soil;
      (2)   Radon is the leading cause of lung cancer among nonsmokers and is
the number one risk in homes according to the Harvard Center for Risk Analysis
at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health;
      (3)   The World Health Organization Handbook on Indoor Radon includes key
messages which state:
         (a)   “There is no known threshold concentration below which radon
exposure presents no risk.”; and
         (b) “The majority of radon-induced lung cancers are caused by low and
moderate radon concentrations rather than by high radon concentrations, because
in general less people are exposed to high indoor radon concentrations”.
      (4)   The Surgeon General of the United States urged Americans to test
their homes to find out how much radon they might be breathing;
      (5)   The United States Environmental Protection Agency estimates that
more than 20,000 Americans die of radon-related lung cancer each year;
      (6)   The United States Environmental Protection Agency has identified
radon levels in the state as the third highest in the United States because of
the high concentration of uranium in the soil; and
      (7)   In 2018, the Radon Resistant New Construction Task Force
recommended minimum standards for radon resistant new construction to the
Governor, the Health and Human Services Committee of the Legislature and the
Urban Affairs Committee of the Legislature.
(Neb. RS 76-3502)
   (B)   Terms, defined. For purposes of the Radon Resistant New Construction
Act:
      ACTIVE RADON MITIGATION SYSTEM. A family of radon mitigation systems
involving mechanically driven soil depressurization, including subslab
depressurization, drain tile depressurization, block wall depressurization and
submembrane depressurization. Active radon mitigation system is also known as
active soil depressurization;
      BUILDING CONTRACTOR. Any individual, corporation, partnership, limited
liability company, or other business entity that engages in new construction;
      DEPARTMENT. The Department of Health and Human Services;
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any original construction of a single-family home or a
multifamily dwelling, including apartments, group homes, condominiums and
townhouses, or any original construction of a building used for commercial,
industrial, educational, or medical purposes. New construction does not include
additions to existing structures or remodeling of existing structures;
      PASSIVE RADON MITIGATION SYSTEM. A pipe installed in new construction
that relies solely on the convective flow of air upward for soil gas
depressurization and may consist of multiple pipes routed through conditioned
space from below the foundation to above the roof;
      RADON MITIGATION SPECIALIST. An individual who is licensed by the
department as a radon mitigation specialist in accordance with the Radiation
Control Act; and
      RADON RESISTANT NEW CONSTRUCTION. Construction that utilizes design
elements and construction techniques that passively resist radon entry and
prepare a building for an active postconstruction mitigation system.
(Neb. RS 76-3503)
   (C)   Radon resistant new construction; minimum standards. Except as
provided in Neb. RS 76-3505, new construction built after September 1, 2019, in
the state that is intended to be regularly occupied by people shall be built
using radon resistant new construction. Such construction shall meet the
following minimum standards.
      (1)   Sumps:
         (a)   A sump pit open to soil or serving as the termination point for
subslab or exterior drain tile loops shall be covered with a gasketed or
otherwise sealed lid;
         (b)   A sump used as the suction point in a subslab depressurization
system shall have a lid designed to accommodate the vent pipe; and
         (c)   A sump used as a floor drain shall have a lid equipped with a
trapped inlet.
      (2)   A passive subslab depressurization system shall be installed during
construction in basement or slab-on-grade buildings, including the following
components:
         (a)   Vent pipe:
            1.   a.   A minimum three-inch diameter acrylonitrile butadiene
styrene (ABS), polyvinyl chloride (PVC), or equivalent gas-tight pipe shall be
embedded vertically into the subslab permeable material before the slab is
cast. A “T” fitting or equivalent method shall be used to ensure that the pipe
opening remains within the subslab permeable material; or
               b.   A minimum three-inch diameter ABS, PVC, or equivalent gas-
tight pipe shall be inserted directly into an interior perimeter drain tile
loop or through a sealed sump cover where the sump is exposed to the subslab or
connected to it through a drainage system.
            2.   The pipe shall be extended up through the building floors and
terminate at least twelve inches above the surface of the roof in a location at
least ten feet away from any window or other opening into the conditioned
spaces of the building that is less than two feet below the exhaust point and
ten feet from any window or other opening in adjoining or adjacent buildings;
and
            3.   In buildings where interior footings or other barriers
separate the subslab gas-permeable material, each area shall be fitted with an
individual vent pipe. Vent pipes shall connect to a single vent that terminates
above the roof or each individual vent pipe shall terminate separately above
the roof. All exposed and visible interior radon vent pipes shall be identified
with at least one label on each floor and in accessible attics. Such label
shall read: “Radon Reduction System”.
      (3)   Power source: In order to provide for future installation of an
active radon mitigation system, an electrical circuit terminated in an approved
box shall be installed during construction in the attic or other anticipated
location of vent pipe fans.
(Neb. RS 76-3504)
   (D)   New construction not required to use radon resistant new construction;
when. New construction after September 1, 2019, shall not be required to use
radon resistant new construction if:
      (1)   The construction project utilizes the design of an architect or
professional engineer licensed under the Engineers and Architects Regulation
Act;
      (2)   The construction project is located in a county in which the
average radon concentration is less than two and seven-tenths picocuries per
liter of air as determined by the department pursuant to Neb. RS 76-3507; or
      (3)   Other than for any residential dwelling unit, a local building
official makes a determination, after a review of relevant guidelines for the
intended use of the structure and property conditions, that radon resistant new
construction is not necessary.
(Neb. RS 76-3505)
   (E)   Conversion of passive radon mitigation system to active radon
mitigation system authorized. A building contractor or a subcontractor of a
building contractor may convert a passive radon mitigation system to an active
radon mitigation system in accordance with rules and regulations adopted and
promulgated by the department under the Radiation Control Act for radon
mitigation, but the contractor or subcontractor is not required to be a radon
mitigation specialist to convert such system. A radon mitigation specialist
shall conduct any postinstallation testing of such system.
(Neb. RS 76-3506)
   (F)   Department; duties. On or before January 1, 2020, and on or before
January 1 of each year thereafter, the Department shall compile the results of
the radon measurements performed in the past five years that were reported to
the Department pursuant to the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by
the Department regarding the control of radiation. The Department shall
determine the average radon concentration in the state by county and identify
each county in which such average concentration exceeds two and seven-tenths
picocuries per liter of air.
(Neb. RS 76-3507)
ARTICLE 3: BUILDING MOVING
Section
   
9-301   Regulations
   
9-302   Completion of move
§ 9-301 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to move any
building or structure within the village without a written permit to do so.
Application may be made to the Village Clerk and shall include the present and
future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the equipment
to be used and such other information as the Village Board may require. The
application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the County
Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which said building is presently located. The Village Clerk shall refer
said application to the Village Board for approval of the proposed route over
which said building is to be moved. Upon said approval, the Clerk shall then
issue said permit, provided a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check
or cash in an amount set by the Board and conditioned upon moving said building
without doing damage to any private or village property is filed with the Clerk
prior to the granting of any permit.
   (B)   No moving permit shall be required to move a building that is ten feet
wide or less, 20 feet long or less and, when in a position to move, 15 feet
high or less.
   (C)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with telephone poles and wires or a gas line, the company or
companies owning, using or operating said poles, wires or line shall, upon
proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by disconnecting said
poles, wires or line relative to the building moving operation. All expense of
said disconnection, removal or related work shall be paid in advance by the
licensee unless such disconnection or work is furnished on different terms as
provided in said company’s franchise.
   (D)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes or wire belonging to the village, notice in
writing of the time and route of said building moving operation shall be given
to the Utilities Superintendent, who shall proceed on behalf of the village and
at the expense of the mover to make such disconnections and do such work as is
necessary.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,288 through 60-6,294 and 60-6,296
§ 9-302 COMPLETION OF MOVE.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector shall inspect the premises and report to the Village Clerk as to the
extent of damages, if any, resulting from said relocation and whether any
village laws have been violated during said operation. Upon a satisfactory
report from the village police, the Clerk shall return the corporate surety
bond, cash or check deposited by the applicant. In the event the basement,
foundation or portion thereof is not properly filled, covered or in a clean and
sanitary condition, the Village Board may apply the money deposited for the
purpose of defraying the expense of correcting said conditions. If the expense
of correcting the hazardous condition is greater than the amount of the
deposit, the Village Board may recover such excess expense by civil suit or
otherwise as prescribed by law.
ARTICLE 4: CODES ADOPTED
Section
   
9-401   Building Code; adopted by reference
   
9-402   Plumbing Code; adopted by reference
   
9-403   Electrical Code; adopted by reference
§ 9-401 BUILDING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction and uses of materials in buildings
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated and
converted, the 2021 or later edition of the International Building Code (IBC)
published by the International Code Council and available in book or pamphlet
form, is hereby incorporated by reference as though printed in full herein
insofar as said code does not conflict with the statutes of the state. One
digital copy of the International Building Code shall be on file at the office
of the Village Clerk, available for public inspection during office hours. The
provisions of the International Building Code shall be controlling throughout
the village and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132 and 19-922
§ 9-402 PLUMBING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and stable installation of plumbing and heating, the rules and regulations
regarding plumbing and heating installation, connection, uses and material
shall be as found in the 2024 or later edition of National Standard Plumbing
Code published by the National Association of Plumbing-Heating-Cooling
Contractors. Said code is hereby incorporated by reference as though printed in
full herein insofar as said code does not conflict with the statutes of the
state. One digital copy of the Plumbing Code shall be on file at the office of
the Village Clerk, available for public inspection during office hours. The
provisions of the Plumbing Code shall be controlling throughout the village and
throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132 and 19-922
§ 9-403 ELECTRICAL CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The 2026 or later edition of the National Electrical Code, as recommended by
the National Fire Protection Association, is hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference as though printed in full herein insofar as said code does not
conflict with state statutes. One digital copy of the Electrical Code shall be
on file at the office of the Village Clerk, available for public inspection
during office hours. The provisions of the Electrical Code shall be controlling
throughout the village and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132 and 19-922
ARTICLE 5: PENAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
9-501   Violation; penalty
   
9-502   Abatement of nuisance
§ 9-501 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
§ 9-502 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the village may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same in the manner provided
by law. Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
CHAPTER 10: ZONING REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   ZONING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 1: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
10-101   Zoning regulations adopted
   
Appendix A:   Zoning regulations
§ 10-101 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted “Zoning Regulations for the Village of
Clearwater” which shall be designated as the zoning regulations for the village
and hereafter referred to as “the Clearwater Zoning Ordinance,” “these zoning
regulations” or “this chapter.” These zoning regulations were created in
accordance with the village’s comprehensive development plan designed to
accommodate and anticipate long-range future growth based upon population and
economic projections for the community. The purpose of these zoning regulations
shall be: to regulate and restrict the height, number of stories and size of
buildings and other structures, the size of yards, courts and other open
spaces, the density of population and the location and use of buildings,
structures and land for trade, industry, residence or other purposes in the
village and an area extending one-mile from the corporate limits thereof; to
regulate and restrict the erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair or use of buildings, structures or land in the aforementioned area; and
to divide said area into zoning districts and providing for the boundaries of
said districts and in the manner in which said districts shall be determined,
established and enforced, and from time to time amended, supplemented or
changed; by making certain exceptions; by creating the Office of Zoning
Administrator and the Board of Adjustment; by providing for the enforcement of
and the penalties for the violation of any of its provisions; for the purpose
of promoting health, safety, morals and general welfare of the community.
   (B)   The village hereby has a zoning map and an extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction map for the purpose of dividing the village’s jurisdiction into
zoning districts.
(Ord. passed - -2017; Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-8-2019)
APPENDIX A: ZONING REGULATIONS
Chapter 1: General Provisions and Definitions
Article 1: Introduction
   
1-1.1   Short title
Article 2: Purpose and Intent
   
1-2.1   Purpose
   
1-2.2   Design
   
1-2.3   Consideration
Article 3: General Provisions
   
1-3.1   Jurisdictional area
   
1-3.2   Invalidity in part
   
1-3.3   Conflicting ordinance
   
1-3.4   Classes of district
   
1-3.5   Zoning district map
   
1-3.6   Exemptions
Article 4: Rules and Definition
   
1-4.1   Rules of words
   
1-4.2   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
1-4.3   Interpretation
   
1-4.4   Separability
   
1-4.5   Conformity requirements
   
1-4.6   Definitions
   
1-4.7   Undefined words
Article 5: Violations and Penalties
   
1-5.1   Violations and penalties
Chapter 2: District Use Regulations
Article 1: A-1 Agricultural District
   
2-1.1   Intent
   
2-1.2   Permitted uses
   
2-1.3   Conditional uses
   
2-1.4   Site development regulations
Article 2: TA Transitional Agriculture District
   
2-2.1   Intent
   
2-2.2   Permitted uses
   
2-2.3   Conditional uses
   
2-2.4   Site development regulations
   
2-2.5   Accessory buildings
   
2-2.6   Signage
Article 3: LLR Large Lot Residential District
   
2-3.1   Intent
   
2-3.2   Permitted uses
   
2-3.3   Conditional uses
   
2-3.4   Site development regulations
   
2-3.5   Accessory buildings
   
2-3.6   Signage
Article 4: R-1 Single-Family Residential District
   
2-4.1   Intent
   
2-4.2   Permitted uses
   
2-4.3   Conditional uses
   
2-4.4   Site development regulations
   
2-4.5   Use limitations
   
2-4.6   Accessory buildings
   
2-4.7   Signage
Article 5: M-U Mixed Use Development District
   
2-5.1   Intent
   
2-5.2   Permitted uses
   
2-5.3   Conditional uses
   
2-5.4   Site development regulations
   
2-5.5   Use limitations
   
2-5.6   Accessory buildings
   
2-5.7   Signage
Article 6: C-1 General Commercial District
   
2-6.1   Intent
   
2-6.2   Permitted uses
   
2-6.3   Conditional uses
   
2-6.4   Site development regulations
   
2-6.5   Use limitations
   
2-6.6   Signage
Article 7: C-2 Highway Commercial District
   
2-7.1   Intent
   
2-7.2   Permitted uses
   
2-7.3   Conditional uses
   
2-7.4   Site development regulations
   
2-7.5   Use limitations
   
2-7.6   Signage
Article 8: Airport Zoning Regulations
   
2-8.1   Location, boundaries, zones and height restrictions
Article 9: Statutory Authorization and Floodplain Regulations
   
2-9.1   Statutory authorization
   
2-9.2   Finding of facts
   
2-9.3   Statement of purpose
   
2-9.4   Adherence to regulations
   
2-9.5   General provisions
   
2-9.6   Establishment of zoning districts
   
2-9.7   Floodplain management administration
   
2-9.8   Standards for floodplain development
   
2-9.9   Nonconforming uses
   
2-9.10   Amendments
   
2-9.11   Definitions
Chapter 3: Supplementary District Regulations
Article 1: Supplementary District Regulations
   
3-1.1   Height use regulations
   
3-1.2   Yard regulations
   
3-1.3   Number of structures and uses on zoning lots
   
3-1.4   Sight triangle
   
3-1.5   Access to Commercial and Industrial District
   
3-1.6   Home occupations
   
3-1.7   Temporary uses permitted
   
3-1.8   Open storage
   
3-1.9   Determination of building setback line
   
3-1.10   Fences, hedges and walls
   
3-1.11   Recreational vehicle storage
   
3-1.12   Mobile/manufactured homes
Chapter 4: Conditional Uses and Regulations
Article 1: Conditional Use Regulations
   
4-1.1   Conditional uses
Article 2: Off-Street Parking Regulations
   
4-2.1   Applicability
   
4-2.2   General provisions
   
4-2.3   Layout and design requirements
   
4-2.4   Plans and approval required
   
4-2.5   Minimum off-street parking requirements
   
4-2.6   Off-street loading requirements
Chapter 5: Reserved
Chapter 6: Nonconformities
Article 1: Nonconformities
   
6-1.1   General
   
6-1.2   Nonconforming lots of record
   
6-1.3   Nonconforming structures
   
6-1.4   Nonconforming uses
Chapter 7: Planning Commission
Article 1: Planning Commission
   
7-1.1   Planning Commission
   
7-1.2   Chairperson and meetings
   
7-1.3   Funds
   
7-1.4   Municipal planning
Chapter 8: Board of Adjustment
Article 1: Board of Adjustment
   
8-1.1   Creation
   
8-1.2   Meeting and voting
   
8-1.3   Duties
   
8-1.4   Applications
   
8-1.5   Appeals from the Board of Adjustment
Chapter 9: Amendments and Hearings
Article 1: Amendments
   
9-1.1   General provision
   
9-1.2   Planning Commission public hearing
   
9-1.3   Action by the Planning Commission
   
9-1.4   Action by the governing body
Chapter 10: Communication Tower Regulations
Article 1: Communication Tower Regulations
   
10-1.1   Conditional use permit requirement
   
10-1.2   Minimum requirements
   
10-1.3   Special requirements
Chapter 11: Wind Energy System Regulations
Article 1: Wind Energy System Regulations
   
11-1.1   General standards
   
11-1.2   Noncommercial wind energy systems
   
11-1.3   Meteorological towers
   
11-1.4   Commercial/utility wind energy systems
Chapter 12: Subdivision Regulations
Article 1: Subdivision Regulations
   
12-1.1   Purpose
   
12-1.2   Applicability
   
12-1.3   Procedures
   
12-1.4   Subdivision improvement procedure
   
12-1.5   Dedication of public land
   
12-1.6   Subdivision annexation
   
12-1.7   Variances
   
12-1.8   Public sites and open spaces
   
12-1.9   Vacations
   
12-1.10   Amendments
Chapter 13: Public Infrastructure Regulations
Article 1: Streets, Alleys, Sidewalks, Driveways, Utility and
Drainage Facilities and Additional Improvements
   
13-1.1   Streets, alleys, sidewalks, driveways
   
13-1.2   Street, utility and drainage facilities
   
13-1.3   Additional improvements
Chapter 14: Administration and Procedures
Article 1: Administration
   
14-1.1   Administrative procedure
   
14-1.2   Permits required
   
14-1.3   Application for building permit
   
14-1.4   Issuance of building permits
   
14-1.5   Permit fee
   
14-1.6   Permits revoked
   
14-1.7   Effect of building permit
   
14-1.8   Certified surveys
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS
**** ARTICLE 1: INTRODUCTION ****
§ 1-1.1 SHORT TITLE.
   These regulations constitute and may be referred to as the Clearwater Zoning
Ordinance.
**** ARTICLE 2: PURPOSE AND INTENT ****
§ 1-2.1 PURPOSE.
   In order to promote the health, safety, morals and the general welfare of
the village, this is an ordinance that gives authority to the village to
control planning and zoning within the corporate limits and within a
jurisdiction beyond the corporate limits. These zoning regulations divide the
village into districts to regulate and restrict the height, number of stories,
size of buildings and other structures, the percentage of lot that may be
occupied, the size of the buildings and other open spaces, the density of
population, the location and use of buildings, courts and other open spaces,
the density of population, the location and use of buildings, structures and
land for trade, industry and residence or other purpose, and the erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of buildings,
structures or land.
§ 1-2.2 DESIGN.
   (A)   These regulations are made in accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 17,
Article 10 and Chapter 19, Article 9, and amendments thereto, and in accordance
with the comprehensive development plan of the village and are designed to:
      (1)   Lesson congestion in the streets;
      (2)   Secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers;
      (3)   To promote the health and the general welfare;
      (4)   To provide adequate light and air;
      (5)   To avoid undue concentration of population;
      (6)   To prevent the overcrowding of land; and
      (7)   To facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements.
   (B)   These regulations are organized in form by chapter, article and
section. The first number shall represent the chapter, the second number shall
represent the article and the third and fourth numbers shall represent the
section.
§ 1-2.3 CONSIDERATION.
   These regulations are made with reasonable consideration of the character of
the district and its peculiar suitability for particular uses and with a view
to conserving the value of buildings and encourage the most appropriate use of
land throughout the village and the area lying within the village’s extra-
territorial jurisdiction (ETJ).
**** ARTICLE 3: GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 1-3.1 JURISDICTIONAL AREA.
   The provisions of these regulations shall apply to all structures and land
in the incorporated area of the village; and the full jurisdiction of the
village which includes a one-mile radial jurisdiction extending past the
corporate limits of the village. The village’s full jurisdiction is as shown on
the official zoning maps.
   (A)   The jurisdictional area shall be shown on the official zoning district
map and filed in the office of the Village Clerk.
   (B)   All land which may hereafter be annexed to the village shall be
classified as R-1 Residential District unless otherwise changed by ordinance.
   (C)   Upon automatic extension of the one mile extra-territorial
jurisdiction (ETJ), the unincorporated area which may hereafter fall under the
jurisdiction of the village because of an increase in the jurisdictional area
shall be classified as A-1 Agricultural District unless otherwise denoted or
changed by ordinance.
§ 1-3.2 INVALIDITY IN PART.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter.
§ 1-3.3 CONFLICTING ORDINANCE.
   Where this chapter conflicts with any other local, state or federal
ordinance or regulation, the most restrictive ordinance or regulation shall
apply.
§ 1-3.4 CLASSES OF DISTRICT.
   For the purpose of these regulations, the village and the suburban area
which includes a one-mile radial jurisdiction extending past the corporate
limits of the village is divided into the following districts in accordance
with the village’s official zoning map and official ETJ zoning map.
A-1 Agricultural District
C-1 General Commercial District
C-2 Highway Commercial District
FP  Floodplain Overlay District
LLR Large Lot Residential District
M-U Mixed Use Development District
R-1 Single-Family Residential District
TA  Transitional Agriculture District
 
§ 1-3.5 ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   (A)   Said districts are bounded and defined as shown on a the zoning maps
adopted as a part of these regulations.
   (B)   The zoning maps shall be kept and maintained by the village and shall
be available for inspection and examination by members of the public at all
reasonable times as that of any public record.
§ 1-3.6 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following structures and uses shall be exempt from the provision of
these regulations:
   (A)   Poles, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes, mains, valves
or other similar equipment for the distribution to consumers of telephone or
other communications, electricity, gas or water, or the collection of sewage or
surface water operated or maintained by a public utility but not including
substations located on or above the ground;
   (B)   Retaining walls; and
   (C)   Public signs as defined in these regulations.
**** ARTICLE 4: RULES AND DEFINITION ****
§ 1-4.1 RULES OF WORDS.
   (A)   In the construction of these regulations, the provisions and rules of
this section shall be preserved and applied, except when the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
      (2)   Words in the singular number include the plural number, and words
in the plural number include the singular number.
      (3)   The phrase “used for” shall include the phrases “arranged for,”
“designed for,” “intended for,” “maintained for” and “occupied for.”
      (4)   The words SHALL and MUST are mandatory.
      (5)   The word MAY is permissive or discretionary.
      (6)   The word PERSON includes individuals, firms, corporations,
associations, governmental bodies and agencies and all other legal entities.
      (7)   The word BOARD means the Clearwater Board of Adjustment.
      (8)   The word COMMISSION shall mean the Planning Commission of
Clearwater.
      (9)   The words VILLAGE BOARD shall mean the Clearwater Village Board.
      (10)   Unless otherwise specified, all distances shall be measured
horizontally.
      (11)   The word VILLAGE means the Village of Clearwater, Nebraska.
      (12)   The abbreviation N/A means not applicable.
   (B)   Any word or phrase which is defined in this article or elsewhere in
these regulations shall have the meaning as provided therein, unless such
definition is expressly limited in its meaning or scope.
§ 1-4.2 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the
aforesaid districts on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Where district boundary lines are indicated as approximately following
streets and alleys, highways or railroads, such boundaries shall be construed
as following the centerlines thereof.
   (B)   Where district boundary lines are indicated, as approximately
following lot lines, or section lines, such lines shall be construed to be said
boundaries.
   (C)   Where a boundary of a district follows a stream, lake or other body of
water, said boundary line should be deemed to be at the limit of the
jurisdiction of the village unless otherwise indicated.
   (D)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot, or un-subdivided
property, and the dimension are not shown on the zoning map, the location of
such boundary shall be as indicated upon the zoning map using the scale
appearing on such map.
§ 1-4.3 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. In their interpretation and application, the
provision of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for
the promotion of the public health, safety, morals and welfare.
   (B)   Overlapping or contradictory regulations. Except as specifically
herein provided, it is not intended to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way
impair or interfere with any existing law or ordinance of the village, or any
easement, covenant or other agreement between parties; provided, however, that
where these regulations impose a greater restriction upon the use of buildings
or requires larger building site areas, yards or open spaces that are imposed
or required by any such other law, ordinance, easement, covenant or agreement,
then the provision of these regulations shall control.
   (C)   Private agreements. These regulations are not intended to abrogate,
annul, enforce or otherwise interfere with any easement, covenant or any other
private agreement or legal relationship; provided, however, that where the
provisions of these regulations are more restrictive (or impose higher
standards or requirements) than such easements, covenant or other private
agreements or legal relationships, the provisions of these regulations shall
govern.
   (D)   Unlawful uses. The adoption of these regulations shall not be
interpreted as retroactively legalizing a use or structure which was illegal
under previous law.
§ 1-4.4 SEPARABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the village that the provisions
of these regulations are separable, in accordance with the following rules.
   (A)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
these regulations to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other
provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of these regulations to a particular property or
structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of said provisions to
any other property or structure.
§ 1-4.5 CONFORMITY REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful to use any land or
building for any purpose other than is permitted in the district in which such
land or building is located. No building shall thereafter be erected,
reconstructed, relocated or structurally altered to have a greater percentage
of lot area, to accommodate or have a greater number of facilities, to have
narrower or smaller yards, courts or open spaces then permissible under the
limitations set forth herein for the district in which such building is
located.
   (A)   No part of yard or other open space required about any building,
existing or hereafter provided for a building or use and necessary to meet or
partially meet the requirements of this regulation, shall be included as part
of a yard or other open space required for another building.
   (B)   No lot held under ownership at the effective date of this regulation
shall be reduced in dimension or area in relation to any building thereon so as
to be smaller than that required by this regulation; if already less, the
dimensions or area shall not be further reduced.
   (C)   No building shall hereafter be erected, reconstructed, relocated or
structurally altered on any lot or parcel unless such lot or parcel faces a
publicly dedicated street or right-of-way. Where a building is in existence, no
such required dedicated street or right-of-way shall be vacated so as to
eliminate the required access to a publicly dedicated street or right-of-way.
§ 1-4.6 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of these zoning regulations, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING. To touch, border on or be contiguous to.
   ABUTTING OWNER. Two persons or parties having property or district lines in
common.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building which: serves a function
customarily incidental to that of the main building; is subordinate in area,
extent and purpose to the principal use; and is located on the same lot and in
the same zoning district as the principal use. Also may be referred to as
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use incidental to and customarily associated with a
specific principal use, located on the same lot or parcel and in the same
zoning district as the principal use. A use that contributes to the comfort,
convenience or necessity of the principal use and is subordinate in area,
extent and purpose to the principal use.
   ADDITION. Any construction which increases the size of the building or
structure in terms of site coverage, height, length, width or gross floor area.
   ADMINISTRATIVE SUBDIVISION. Also known as ADMINISTRATIVE PLAT or MINOR
SUBDIVISION, any subdivision that does not result in the creation of more than
three lots from any single parcel of land; requires no extension of streets,
sewers, utilities or other municipal facilities; no dedication of easements,
rights-of-way or annexation; complies with all pre-existing zoning
requirements; and has not been subject to a previous administrative
subdivision.
   ADULT USE, ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS.
      (1)   Any adult bookstore, adult hotel or motel, adult motion picture
arcade, adult motion picture theater, cabaret, sexual encounter center, an
establishment providing nude dancing or other live or recorded performances, or
any other business or establishment that offers its patrons services or
entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or
relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   A business that utilizes a significant portion of its display areas
to sell, rent or lease any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, motion
picture film or similar visual representation or image of a person or portion
of the male or female genitals which predominantly pruriently, shamefully or
morbidly depicts nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sadomasochistic
abuse.
   ADULT USE, SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely
covered anal region, buttock, female breasts below a point immediately above
the top of the areole, human genitals, pubic region or human male genitals in a
discernible turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
   ADULT USE, SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breast; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth above.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. A tract of land or a combination of tracts of land
utilized primarily for crop production or raising of livestock.
   AIRPORT. Any area of land or water designated, set aside, used or intended
for use, for the landing and take-off of aircraft, and any appurtenant, areas
designated, set aside, used or intended for use, for airport buildings or other
airport facilities, rights-of-way or approach zones, together with all airport
buildings and facilities located thereon.
   ALLEY. A dedicated public right-of-way, other than a street, which provides
only a secondary means of access to abutting property and has a right-of-way 20
feet or less in width.
   ALTERATION. As applied to a building or structure, a change or rearrangement
in the structural parts of an existing building or structure. Enlargement,
whether by extending a side, increasing in height or the moving from one
location or position to another, shall be considered an ALTERATION.
   APARTMENT. A room, or suite of rooms in a multiple-family dwelling or where
more than one living unit is established in any building, intended, designed,
used or suitable for use by one or more persons as a place of residence with
culinary accommodations.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Village Board of Clearwater, Nebraska or its
designee.
   ATTACHED. Having one or more walls in common with a principal building or
connected to a principal building by an integral architectural element, such as
a covered passageway, facade wall extension or archway.
   BARNDOMINIUM. A steel or wood frame structure with sheet metal siding used
as a dwelling for one family. Specific structure requirements include:
      (1)   Metal siding must be attached horizontally and be of one color,
except for trim. Trim, window sash and doors may be a compatible color;
      (2)   The roof must have a minimum 14-inch overhand and minimum 5:12
pitch;
      (3)   The front side shall have residential door(s) and window(s); and
      (4)   Sixty percent of the length of the front side shall have an
attached covered porch.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building having more than one-half of its height
below finished grade. This portion shall serve as a substructure or foundation
for the remainder of the building.
   BASE ZONING DISTRICT. A district established by this chapter which
prescribes basic regulations governing land use and site development standards.
No more than one BASE ZONING DISTRICT shall apply to any individually platted
lot or parcel unless the lot or parcel is part of a planned unit development.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A house or portion thereof where short-term lodging rooms
and meals are provided. (See SHORT-TERM LODGING.)
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets, by streets and the exterior boundaries of the subdivision, or by a
combination of the above with a watercourse, lake, railroad or other
significant natural or human-made barrier, and which has been designated as
such on a plat for the purposes of legal description of a property.
   BLOCK FACE. The property abutting one side of a street and lying between the
two nearest intersection streets, or between the one nearest intersecting
street and a major physical barrier, including, but not limited to, railroads,
streams, lakes or the corporate limits of the village.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Board which has been created by the governing body
to hear and determine appeals and variances to the zoning regulations.
   BOARDING OR LODGING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or motel where, for
compensation and by pre-arrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and
meals are provided for three or more persons, but not to exceeding 60 persons.
   BUFFER YARD. A landscaped area intended to separate and partially obstruct
the view of two adjacent land uses or properties from one another.
   BUILDING. An enclosed structure, anchored to a permanent foundation and
having a roof support by columns or walls, intended, designed, used or suitable
for use for the support, enclosure, shelter or protection of persons, animals
or property. When divided by other than common or contiguous walls, each
portion or section of such building shall be regarded as a separate BUILDING,
except that two buildings connected by a breezeway shall be deemed one
BUILDING. BUILDING includes STRUCTURE.
   BUILDING COVERAGE. The area of a site covered by buildings or roofed area,
excluding allowed projecting eaves, balconies and similar features.
   BUILDING ENVELOPE. The net cubic, three dimensional, space that remains for
placing a structure on a site after building line, height and bulk regulations
are observed.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT. The vertical dimension measured from the average elevation
of the finished lot grade at the front of the building to the highest point of
ceiling of the top story in the case of a flat roof; to the deck line of a
mansard roof; and to the peak of a gable, hip or gambrel roof.
   BUILDING LINE. A building line, parallel or nearly parallel, to either the
street line or the lot line not abutting the street, at a specific distance
from the front, rear and side boundaries of a lot beyond which a structure
cannot lawfully extend.
   BUILDING, MAIN. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot or parcel upon which it is situated. Every dwelling in the residence
district is a MAIN BUILDING.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person or persons designated by the governing body to
administer this chapter whether such person or persons by entitled Building
Official, Building Inspector, Administrative Official or Zoning Administrator.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A document that must be issued by the village prior to
erecting, constructing, enlarging, altering, moving, improving, removing,
converting or demolishing any building or structure on a platted lot or parcel.
   BUILDING SITE. The land area, consisting of one or more lots or parcel of
land under common ownership or control, considered as the unit of land occupied
or to be occupied by a main building or buildings and accessory buildings, or
by a principal use or uses accessory thereto, together with such parking and
loading spaces, yards and open spaces as are required by these regulations.
   BUSINESS. Activities that include the exchange or manufacture of goods or
services on a site.
   BUSINESS CENTER. A building containing more than one commercial business, or
any group of nonresidential buildings within a common development,
characterized by shared parking and access.
   CAMPGROUNDS. Any premises where two or more camping units are parked/placed
for camping purposes, or any premises used or set apart for supplying to the
public, camping space for two or more camping units for camping purposes, which
include any buildings, structures, vehicles or enclosures used or intended for
use or intended wholly or in part for the accommodation of transient campers.
   CARWASH. An area of land and/or a structure with machine- and/or human-
operated facilities used principally for the cleaning, washing, polishing or
waxing of motor vehicles.
   CAT. Feline species over three months of age.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. An official certificate issued by the village,
prior to occupancy of a completed building or structure, upon finding of
conformance with the applicable building code and this chapter.
   CHANGE OF USE. The replacement of an existing use type by a new use type.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility which is or should be licensed by the State
Department of Health and Human Services.
   CHILD CARE HOME. A private home providing care (for children) for
compensation which is or should be licensed by the State Department of Health
and Human Services.
   COMMERCIAL/UTILITY WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (LARGE). A wind energy system of
equal to or greater than 100 kW in total generating capacity.
   COMMERCIAL VENTURE. An activity undertaken as a primary means of income or
which provides a substantial supplement to a primary income.
   COMMON AREA. An area held, designed and designated for common or cooperative
use within a development.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. The undivided land in a subdivision which may be jointly
owned by all property owners of the subdivision, for the benefit of the owners
of the individual building sites of said development.
   COMMON SEWER SYSTEM. A sanitary sewage system in public ownership which
provides for the collection and treatment of domestic effluent in a central
sewage treatment plant which meets the minimum requirements of the State
Department of Environmental Quality for primary and secondary sewage treatment
and which does not include individual septic tanks or portable sewage treatment
facilities.
   COMMON WATER SYSTEM. A water system which provides for the supply, storage
and distribution of potable water on an uninterrupted basis which is in public
ownership.
   COMMUNICATIONS TOWER. A tower, pole or other similar structure that supports
a telecommunications antenna or antenna used for the transmission or broadcast
of radio, television, radar or microwaves.
   COMMUNITY CENTER. A place, structure, area or other facility used for and
providing religious, fraternal, social and/or recreation programs generally
open to the public and designed to accommodate and serve significant segments
of the community.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The long-range development plan adopted by the Village
Board.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use that would not be appropriate generally or without
restriction throughout the zoning district but which, if controlled as to
number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would not be
detrimental to public health, safety or general welfare.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit used to give approval of a conditional use
with operating and/or physical characteristics different from those of
permitted uses in a given zoning district which may, nonetheless, be compatible
with those uses under special conditions and with adequate public review.
Conditional uses are allowed in a zoning district only at the discretion of and
with the explicit permission of the Planning Commission and Village Board.
   CONDOMINIUM. A single dwelling unit in a multi-unit dwelling or structure,
which is separately owned and which may be combined with an undivided interest
in the common areas and facilities of the property.
   CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING USE. (See INTENSIVE LIVESTOCK, CONFINEMENT
FACILITIES/OPERATIONS.)
   CONVALESCENT CARE. (See NURSING HOME.)
   COVENANT. Written promise or pledge.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and with an opposite end
providing for the reversal of traffic.
   CULVERT. A transverse drain that channels water under a bridge, street or
driveway.
   CURB. A vertical or sloping edge of a roadway, intended to define the edge
of the cartway or street and to channel or control drainage.
   DAY CARE CENTER. (See CHILD CARE CENTER.)
   DAY CARE HOME. (See CHILD CARE HOME.)
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. An agreement between the village and subdivider
whereby the subdivider guarantees to complete all improvements and terms for
payment of costs for same.
   DISTRICT or ZONE. A section or sections of the zoning area for which uniform
regulations governing the use of land, the height, use, area, size and
intensity of use of buildings, land and open spaces are herein established.
   DOG. Any canine species over six months of age.
   DRIVE-IN SERVICE. A type of retail sales which encourages, recognizes or
permits patrons or customers to call for service by the flashing of lights or
by the parking of motor vehicles at a particular place, intended to result in a
cash sale and delivery outside of the places of business to such patrons or
customers.
   DUPLEX. Any building containing exactly two dwelling units which are side by
side with a common wall and roof, situated on a single lot.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof, not including mobile homes but
including modular homes, which is designed and used exclusively for residential
purposes.
   DWELLING FOR THE ELDERLY AND/OR HANDICAPPED. A two-family or multiple-family
dwelling having accommodations for and occupied exclusively by elderly or
handicapped residents and necessary maintenance personnel. For the purpose of
this definition, ELDERLY RESIDENTS are people who are at least 62 years of age;
and HANDICAPPED PERSONS are people having an impairment which is expected to be
of long, continuous and indefinite duration and is a substantial limitation to
their ability to live independently.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof designed with
accommodations for or occupied by three or more families living independently
of each other who may or may not have joint services or facilities or both. The
term includes dormitories and lodging and boarding houses but does not include
hotels, motels and tourist courts.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling having accommodations for and occupied
exclusively by one family.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED or TOWNHOUSE. A portion of a dwelling
having accommodations for and occupied exclusively by one family, and which is
located on a separate lot of record apart from the remaining portions of the
building. Each such DWELLING may be sold independently of the other portions.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building or semi-detached building or portion
thereof designed or occupied exclusively by two families living independently
of each other.
   EARTH SHELTERED RESIDENCE. A residence designed as a complete structure
below or partially below ground level, which was not intended to serve as a
substructure or foundation for a building.
   EASEMENT. The right of a person, government agency or public utility company
to use public or private land owned by another for a specific purpose.
   ENGINEER. One licensed by the state and designated by the Village Board to
act for the village.
   FAMILY. One person or more than one person related by blood, marriage or
adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit; or a group of not more
than four unrelated persons living together as a single housekeeping unit;
plus, in either case, usual domestic servants and/or resident staff. A FAMILY
shall under no circumstances be construed as a boarding house, fraternity or
sorority house, club, lodging house, hotel or motel.
   FARM. The use of a tract of land of 20 acres or more for the growing of
crops, pasture, nursery or the raising of poultry and livestock, including the
structures necessary for carrying out farming operations and the residence or
residences of those owning or operation the premises, or persons employed
thereon.
   FASCIA. A flat, usually horizontal, portion of a building running along the
lower edge of the roof. FASCIA is typically fixed directly to the lowers ends
of the roof trusses.
   FEEDLOT. Any tract of land or structure, pen or corral, wherein cattle,
horses, sheep, goats, swine and poultry are maintained in close quarters for
the purpose of fattening such livestock for final shipment to market.
   FENCE. Any vertical structure, other than a building or plant material which
is for the purpose of obstructing visual observation, or for the purpose of
obstructing pedestrian, automotive or animal movement, or for the purpose of
beautification, and which is attached to the ground or to a building, but
excluding retaining walls.
      (1)   CLOSED FENCE. A fence where the design of the fence has more than
50% of the surface area closed.
      (2)   OPEN FENCE. A fence where the design contains openings that
constitute not less than 50% of the surface area of the fence. The surface area
is the product of a length of fence measured from the inside edge of one
support post or column to the inside edge of the next adjacent support post or
column; times the height of the same section of fence.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the 100-year flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot at any
point.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. All that land in a floodplain not lying within a delineated
floodway. Land within a FLOODWAY FRINGE is subject to an inundation by
relatively low velocity flows and shallow water depths.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the areas of the several floors of a building,
including areas used for human occupancy in basements, attics, elevator shafts;
stairwells at each story; floor space used for mechanical equipment with
structural headroom of six feet, six inches or more; as measured from the
exterior faces of the walls. It does not include cellars unclosed porches, or
attics not used for human occupancy, or any floor space in accessory buildings
or in the main building intended and designed for the parking of motor vehicles
in order to meet the parking requirements provided herein.
   FOUNDATION. The supporting substructure of a building or other structure,
including, but not limited to, basements and slabs designed to provide a
structural system for transferring loads from a structure to the earth.
   FOUNDATION, PERMANENT.
      (1)   A full, poured concrete or masonry foundation;
      (2)   A poured concrete frost wall or a mortared masonry frost wall, with
or without a concrete floor;
      (3)   A floating slab for which the municipality may require an
engineer’s certification; or
      (4)   Any foundation which, pursuant to the building code of the
municipality, is permitted for other types of single-family dwellings.
   FRONTAGE. The length of the property abutting on one side of a street
measured along the dividing line between the property and the street.
   FUNERAL HOME. A building or part hereof used for human funeral services,
such building may contain space and facilities for: embalming and the
performance of other services used in preparation of the dead for burial; the
performance of autopsies and other surgical procedures; the storage of caskets,
funeral urns and other related funeral supplies; and the storage of funeral
vehicles, but shall not include facilities for cremation. Where a FUNERAL HOME
is permitted, a funeral chapel shall also be permitted.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building for the private use of the owner or occupant of
a principal building situated on the same lot or attached to the principal
building for the storage of motor vehicles with no facilities for mechanical
service or repair of a commercial or public nature.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building designed and used for the storage of personal
property or automotive vehicles operated as a business enterprise with a
service charge or fee being paid to the owner or operator for the parking or
storage of privately owned vehicles.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A building designed and used for the storage, care, repair
or refinishing of motor vehicles including both minor and major mechanical
overhauling, paint and body work. (See also SERVICE STATION.)
   GOVERNING BODY. The Village Board of the Village of Clearwater, Nebraska.
   GRADE. As the average finished ground level of the land around the building
within the area between the building and the property line is more than five
feet from the building, between the building and a line five feet from the
building.
   GREEN AREA. (See COMMON OPEN SPACE.)
   GREENHOUSE. A structure devoted to the cultivation and/or the protection of
plants. Usually having a roof and/or sides of translucent material.
   GROUP HOME. A facility which houses more than five but less than 16 persons.
Those facilities may offer, in addition to lodging, accommodations, meals,
resident support services, counseling, guidance and varying levels of medical
care. Such facility shall be licensed or approved by the state or other
appropriate agency.
   GROUP HOME FOR THE HANDICAPPED. A dwelling shared by four or more
handicapped persons, including resident staff, who live together as a single
housekeeping unit and in a long-term, family-like environment in which staff
persons provide care, education and participation in community activities for
the residents with the primary goal of enabling the resident to live
independently as possible in order to reach their maximum potential. As used
herein, the term HANDICAPPED shall mean having: a physical or mental impairment
that substantially limits one or more of such person’s major life activities so
that such person is incapable of living independently; a record of having such
an impairment; or being regarded as having such an impairment. However,
HANDICAPPED shall not include current illegal use of or addiction to a
controlled substance, nor shall it include any person whose residency in the
home would constitute a direct threat to the health and safety of other
individuals. The term GROUP HOME FOR THE HANDICAPPED shall not include
alcoholism or drug treatment centers, work release facilities for convicts or
ex-convicts or other housing facilities for serving as an alternative to
incarceration. (See also FAMILY.)
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. Any substances or materials that, by reason of their
toxic, caustic, corrosive, abrasive or otherwise injurious properties, may be
detrimental or deleterious to the health of any person handling or otherwise
coming into contact with such material or substance.
   HEALTH/RECREATION FACILITY. An indoor facility, including uses such as game
courts, exercise equipment, locker rooms, Jacuzzi and/or sauna and pro shop.
   HEIGHT. The vertical distance to the highest point of the roof for flat
roofs; to the deck line of mansard roofs; and to the average height between
eaves and the ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs, measured from the curb
level of the building from the grade in all other cases. For all instances in
this regulation, the maximum height guidelines shall use the peak as the
highest measuring point.
   HELISTOP, LIMITED USE. Any landing area used for the taking off or landing
of private helicopters for the purpose of picking up and discharging of
passengers or cargo. This facility is not open to use by any helicopter without
prior permission having been obtained.
   HIKE/BIKE/PEDESTRIAN TRAIL. A recreational trail prohibiting all non-
emergency or public maintenance motorized vehicles.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area containing buildings or places in which historic
events occurred or having special public value because of notable architectural
or other features relating to the cultural or artistic heritage of the
community, of such significance as to warrant conservation and preservation.
   HOBBY. An activity undertaken as a means of providing relaxation, enjoyment
or a learning experience and where any income is an incidental part of the
activity.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation carried on in a dwelling unit by the resident
thereof; provided, that the use is incidental and secondary to a property’s
primary residential use. A HOME OCCUPATION use shall not change the residential
character of the property or the neighborhood and shall meet all applicable
legal requirements.
   HOSPITAL. An institution specializing in giving clinical, temporary and
emergency services of a medical or surgical nature to human patients and
injured person and licenses by state law to provide facilities and services in
surgery, obstetrics and general medical practice.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or portion thereof, or a group of buildings, used
as a transient abiding place which may or may not serve meals and whether such
establishments are designated as a hotel, inn, automobile court, motel, motor
inn, motor lodge, motor court, tourist cabin, tourist court or other similar
designation.
   IMPERVIOUS COVERAGE AREA. The total horizontal area, expressed as a percent
of the entire site area, of all buildings, roofed or covered spaces, paved
surface areas, walkways and driveways and any other site improvements that
decrease the ability of the surface of the site to absorb water. The surface
water area of pools is excluded from this definition.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any hard-surfaced, human-made area that does not readily
absorb or retain water, including, but not limited to, building roofs, parking
and driveway areas, graveled areas, sidewalks and paved recreation areas.
   IMPROVEMENT. Street pavement or resurfacing, curbs, gutter, sidewalks, water
lines, sewer lines, storm drains, street lights, flood control and drainage
facilities, utility lines, landscaping and other related matters normally
associated with the development of raw land into building sites.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is wrecked, dismantled or
unable to move under its own power or is impounded by a governmental agency or
is not currently licensed.
   INTENSIVE LIVESTOCK, CONFINEMENT FACILITIES/OPERATIONS. Any building(s), lot
(s), pen(s), pool(s) or pond(s) or other confined spaces, which normally are
not used for raising crops or grazing animals, which are designed and/or used
for ongoing confined raising, feeding or management of animals for more than
180 days within any calendar year, beginning January 1.
   JUNK. Old, dilapidated, scrap or abandoned metal, paper, building material
and equipment, bottles, glass, appliances, furniture, beds and bedding, rags,
rubber, motor vehicles and parts thereof.
   JUNK YARD. A lot, land or structure or part thereof, used primarily for the
collection, storage and sale of waste paper, rags, scrap metal or discarded
material, or for the collecting, dismantling, storage and salvaging of
machinery or vehicles not in running condition and for the sale of parts
thereof.
   KENNEL. An establishment licensed to operate a facility housing dogs, cats
or other household pets and where grooming, breeding, boarding, training or
selling of animals is conducted as a business.
   LANDFILL. A disposal site employing an engineering method of disposing solid
wastes in a manner that minimizes environmental hazards by spreading,
compacting to the smallest volume and applying cover material over all exposed
waste at the end of each operating day and in conformance with the requirements
of the State Department of Environmental Quality and State Department of Health
and Human Service System.
   LANDSCAPED AREA. The area within the boundaries of a given lot, site or
common development consisting primarily of plant material, including, but not
limited to, grass, trees, shrubs, vines, ground cover and other organic plant
materials; or grass paver masonry units installed such that the appearance of
the area is primarily landscaped.
      (1)   INTERIOR LANDSCAPED AREA. Any landscaped area within a site
exclusive of required perimeter landscaping.
      (2)   PERIMETER LANDSCAPED AREA. Any required landscaped area that
adjoins the exterior boundary of a lot, site or common development.
   LAUNDRY, SELF SERVICE. A business that provides home-type washing, drying
and/or ironing machines for hire to be used by customers on the premises.
   LEAN-TO. Building having three sides and a roof, using the wall of another
building for the fourth side; used for storage or a workshop.
   LOT. A parcel of land shown as a unit on a recorded subdivision plat.
      (1)   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection.
      (2)   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. An internal lot having a frontage on two
streets.
      (3)   LOT, FLAG. Lots or parcels that the village has approved with less
frontage on a public street than is normally required. The panhandle is an
access corridor to lots or parcels located behind lots or parcels with normally
required street frontage.
      (4)   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot which has frontage on
one street only.
      (5)   LOT, REAR. The rear of a lot shall be that side opposite the front
of the lot.
      (6)   LOT, SUBSTANDARD. A lot or parcel of land that has less than the
required minimum area or width as established by the zone in which it is
located and provided that such lot or parcel was of record as a legally created
lot on the effective date of the ordinance codified herein.
      (7)   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having its front and rear yards each abutting
on a street.
      (8)   LOT, WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance between the side lot
lines, measured at right angles to the lot depth. Where side lot lines are not
parallel the minimum width of a lot shall be measured at the front yard setback
line, but in no case shall the front lot line be less than 35 feet in width.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT LINE. The property line bounding the lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The property line dividing a lot from a public or private
street and from which the required front setback is measured. (See also YARD,
FRONT.)
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot whose existence, location and dimensions have been
legally recorded or registered in a deed or on a plat.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory built single-family dwelling structure which is
to be used as a place for human habitation, which bears a label certifying that
it was manufactured or constructed in compliance with National Manufactured
Home Construction and Safety Standards, 24 C.F.R. part 3280 et seq.,
promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development,
or a modular housing unit as defined in Neb. RS 71-1557 bearing a seal in
accordance with the State Uniform Standards for Modular Housing Units Act, Neb.
RS 71-1555 et seq., and which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent
hitch or other device allowing it to be moved other than to a permanent site,
does not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles,
and which complies with the following architectural and aesthetic standards
listed below. For the purpose of any of these regulations, MANUFACTURED HOME
shall be considered the same as a single-family detached dwelling.
      (1)   Dwelling units built in compliance with the above may be placed in
any zoning district where single-family dwelling units are permitted when the
additional requirements outlined in Chapter 3 of these zoning regulations are
met.
      (2)   MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOMES which do not meet all of the standards
listed in Chapter 3 of these zoning regulations, may be placed in a mobile home
park or as permitted by this code, provided the structure is transportable in
one or more sections which in the traveling mode are eight body feet or more in
width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on-site, are 320 or
more square feet and which are built on a permanent chassis and designed to be
used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and
electrical systems contained therein.
   MAXIMUM BUILDING COVERAGE. This measures the percentage of a site that may
be covered by the footprint of buildings. Thus, a 20,000 square foot building
on a 40,000 square foot site has a building coverage of 50%. This is a method
of regulating the scale of buildings in an area.
   MAXIMUM IMPERVIOUS COVERAGE. This measures the percentage of a site that may
be covered by buildings and other surfaces and development features which
prevent the penetration of water into the ground (such as driveways, porches,
parking lots and other features). Limits on impervious coverage help control
the velocity and quantity of stormwater runoff and provide for groundwater
recharge.
   MEDICAL OFFICE. Use of a site for facilities which provide diagnoses and
outpatient care on a routine basis, but which does not provide prolonged, in-
house medical or surgical care. MEDICAL OFFICES are operated by doctors,
dentists or similar medical practitioners licensed for practice in the state.
   MINI-WAREHOUSE. See SELF SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. See ADMINISTRATIVE SUBDIVISION.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any area, tract, site or plot of land where upon a minimum
of two mobile homes as herein defined are placed, located or maintained or
intended to be placed, located or maintained for dwelling purposes.
   MOBILE HOME. A building type designed to be transportable in one or more
sections, constructed on a permanent chassis or undercarriage, and designed to
be used as a dwelling unit or other use with or without a permanent foundation
when connected to the required utilities, but not bearing a seal attesting to
the approval and issuance of the State Department of Health or conformance to
the manufactured home procedural and enforcement regulations, as adopted by the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development; or not otherwise satisfying
the definition of MANUFACTURED HOME DWELLINGS.
      (1)   MOBILE HOME, DOUBLE-WIDE. A mobile home that consists of two or
more sections that are transported separately and assembled at the site into
one structure of a width of not less than 20 feet.
      (2)   MOBILE HOME, SINGLE-WIDE. A mobile home that consists of one
section which the main body, exclusive of expansions or extensions, is 16 feet
or less in width.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A unified development under single ownership, developed,
subdivided, planned and improved for the placement of mobile home units for
non-transient use. MOBILE HOME PARKS may include common areas and facilities
for management, recreation, laundry, utility services, storage and other
services; but do not include mobile home sales lots on which unoccupied mobile
homes are parked for the purposes of display, inspection, sale or storage.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home park which can
accommodate one mobile home and which provides the necessary utility services
for water, sewerage and electricity.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision where individual lots are sold for
the placement of manufactured or mobile homes, where the lot and structure are
intended to be owned by the same party.
   MODULAR HOME or MODULAR HOUSING UNIT. Any dwelling whose construction
consists entirely of, or the major portions of its construction consists of, a
unit or units not fabricated on the final site for the dwelling unit, which
units are movable or portable until placed on a permanent foundation and
connected to utilities. MODULAR HOUSING UNITS shall be taxed as real estate.
The term MODULAR HOUSING UNIT shall not include a manufactured home.
   MONUMENTS. Permanent concrete or iron markers used to establish definitely
all lines of the plat of a subdivision, including all lot corners, boundary
line corners and points of change in street alignment.
   NON-COMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (SMALL). A wind energy system consisting
of a wind turbine, a tower and associated control or conversion electronics,
which has a rated capacity of not more than 100 kW and which is intended to
primarily reduce on-site consumption of utility power.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING/STRUCTURE. Any building or structure that does not
meet the limitations on building size and location on a lot, for the district
in which such building is located, for the use to which such building is being
located.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A use or activity which lawfully existed prior to the
adoption, revision or amendment of these zoning regulations, but which fails by
reason of such adoption revision, or amendment to conform to the use district
in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A lawful use of land or building that does not comply
with the use regulations for its zoning district but which complied with
applicable regulations at the time the use was established.
   NURSERY. An area where plants, such as trees and shrubs, are grown for
transplanting, for use as stock for budding and grafting or for sale.
   NURSING HOME or CONVALESCENT HOME. An institution or agency licensed by the
state for the reception, board, care or treatment of three or more unrelated
individuals, but not including facilities for the care and treatment of mental
illness, alcoholism or narcotics addiction.
   OPEN SPACE. An area that is intended to provide light and air and is
designed for either environmental, scenic or recreational purposes.
   OUT LOT. Property shown on a subdivision plat outside of the boundaries of
the land which is developed and which is to be excluded from the development of
the subdivision.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district(s). The original zoning
district designation does not change.
   PARK. Any public or private land available for recreation, educational,
cultural or aesthetic use.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC OR CUSTOMER. An area other than private parking area,
street or alley, used for the parking of automobiles and available for public
or semi-public use.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An area, enclosed or unenclosed, sufficient in
size to store one automobile, together with a driveway connecting the parking
space with a street or alley and permitting ingress and egress. A surfaced area
of not less than 200 square feet on private or public property, either within
or outside a building, suitable in size and location to store one standard
automobile.
   PEDESTRIAN WAYS. A tract of land dedicated to public use, which cuts across
a block to facilitate pedestrian access to adjoining streets and properties.
   PERVIOUS COVERAGE. Area maintained in its natural condition, or covered by
material that permits infiltration or percolation of water into the ground. Any
material that permits absorption of water into the ground.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. Special development of certain tracts of land, planned
and designed as a unit for one or more land uses under the regulations and
procedures contained in this chapter.
   PLANNING AREA. The statutory zoning jurisdiction of the village.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The appointed planning body designated by the Village
Board.
   PLAT. Map, drawing or chart upon which the developer’s plan of subdivision
(preliminary) is presented to the Village Board for approval and, after such
approval, to the appropriate County Clerk for recording.
   PLOT. A parcel of ground.
   POULTRY FARM. See FEEDLOT.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. Building in which the primary use of the lot is
intended.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary use and chief purpose of a lot or structure.
   PUBLIC WORKS PLAN. An improvement analysis, conducted and prepared by
Village Engineer, delineating what necessary sewer, water, drainage, street,
stormwater, floodplain, well head and easement improvements will be needed for
all phases of a subdivision.
   PUBLIC WAY. An alley, avenue, boulevard, bridge, channel, ditch, easement,
expressway, freeway, highway, land, parkway, right-of-way, road, sidewalk,
street, subway, tunnel, viaduct, walk or other ways in which the general public
or a public entity have a right, or which are dedicated, whether improved or
not.
   QUONSET. A building made of corrugated metal and having a semicircle cross-
section.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK. Any lot of land upon which two or more
recreational vehicle sites are located, established or maintained for occupancy
by recreational vehicles for accommodating temporarily occupied living quarters
for recreation or vacation purposes.
   RECYCLING CENTER. A facility that is not a junk yard and in which
recoverable resources are collected, stored, flattened, crushed or bundled,
essentially by hand within a completely enclosed building (such as newspaper,
glassware, metal, cans and the like).
   RESTAURANT. An establishment that serves food and beverages primarily to
persons seated within the building. This includes cafés, tea rooms and outdoor
cafés.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN. A retail outlet where food or beverages are sold to a
substantial extent for consumption by customers in parked motor vehicles.
   RESTAURANT, FAST-FOOD. An establishment that offers quick food service,
which is accomplished through a limited menu of items already prepared and held
for service, or prepared, fried or grilled quickly, or heated in a device such
as microwave oven orders are not generally taken at the customer’s table, and
food is generally served in disposable wrapping or containers.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land, taken of dedicated for use as a public way
which is occupied or intended to be occupied by a street, crosswalk, railroad,
electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm
sewer main, shade trees or other special use.
   ROAD, PRIVATE. A way open to vehicular ingress and egress established as a
separate tract for the benefit of certain, adjacent properties. This definition
shall not apply to driveways. (See also RIGHT-OF-WAY and STREET.)
   ROAD, PUBLIC. All public property reserved or dedicated for street traffic.
(See also RIGHT-OF-WAY and STREET.)
   SALVAGE OR JUNK YARD. A place where waste, discarded or salvaged metals,
building materials, paper, textiles, used plumbing fixtures, abandoned or
inoperable motor vehicles or parts thereof, and other used materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled or cleaned; and places or yards for the
storage of salvaged metal, materials and equipment; but not including pawn
shops and establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used cars or
trucks presently in operable condition, boats or trailers presently in operable
condition, and used furniture and household equipment in usable condition and
not including the processing of used, discarded or salvaged material as part of
manufacturing operations.
   SCHOOL. A facility that provides a curriculum of elementary and secondary
academic instruction, including kindergartens, elementary schools, junior high
schools and high schools.
   SCREENING. The method by which a view of one site from another element or
form adjacent or contiguous development. SCREENING may include one or a
combination of the following materials of sufficient mass to be opaque or that
shall become opaque after 12 months and which shall be maintained in an opaque
condition; walls, berms or plantings.
   SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY. A building consisting of individual, small,
self-contained units that are leased or owned for the storage of business and
household goods or contractor’s supplies.
   SERVICE STATION. Any premises where gasoline and other petroleum products
are sold and/or light maintenance activities such as engine tune ups,
lubrication, minor repairs and carburetor cleaning are conducted. SERVICE
STATIONS shall not include premises where heavy automobile maintenance
activities such as engine overhauls, automobile painting and body fender work
are conducted. (See also GARAGE, REPAIR.)
   SETBACK. The required minimum horizontal distance between the building line
and the related front, side or rear property line.
   SEWERS, ON-SITE. A septic tank or similar installation on an individual lot
which utilizes an aerobic bacteriological process or equally satisfactory
process for the elimination of sewage and provides for the proper and safe
disposal of the effluent, subject to the approval of health and sanitation
officials having jurisdiction.
   SHED. Freestanding building not larger than ten feet by 12 feet used for
storage or workshop.
   SHORT-TERM LODGING. Any dwelling or portion thereof that is available for
use for accommodations or lodging of guests for compensation, for periods of
less than 30 consecutive days. (May also be referred to as SHORT-TERM HOUSING.)
   SIDEWALK. A walkway consisting of a paved or cemented area for pedestrians;
usually beside a street or roadway but within the right-of-way.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. An area at a street intersection in which nothing shall be
erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially
impede vision between a height of two and one-half feet and ten feet above the
grades of the bottom of the curb of the intersecting streets, measured from the
point of intersection of the centerline of the streets, 80 feet in each
direction along the centerline of the streets. At the intersection of major or
arterial streets, the 80-foot distance shall be increased to 120 feet for each
arterial leg of the intersection.
   SIGN or SIGNAGE. Any device which shall display or include any letter, word,
model, banner, flag, pennant, insignia, device or representation used as, or
which is in the nature of, and advertisement or announcement which directs
attention to an object, product, place, activity, person, institution,
organization or business, but shall not include any display of governmental
notice or flag.
ABANDONED SIGN. A sign that is not operated or maintained for a period of 180 calendar
days or longer. The following conditions shall be considered as the failure to operate or
maintain a sign: the sign displays advertising for a product or service which is no longer [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
available; the sign displays advertising for a business which is no longer licensed; or    71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
the sign is blank. An ABANDONED SIGN includes a sign on which is advertised a business     IMAGES/0-0-0-1528.png]
that is no longer doing business on the parcel where the sign is located. An ABANDONED
SIGN includes a sign for a purpose for which the purpose has lapsed.
ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict action or       [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
create a special effect or scene.                                                          71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
                                                                                           IMAGES/0-0-0-1522.png]
ANNOUNCEMENT SIGN. A sign which displays information pertaining to any permitted principal [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
use of a nonresidential nature.                                                            71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
                                                                                           IMAGES/0-0-0-1524.png]
ARCHITECTURAL CANOPY SIGN. An enclosed, illuminated or non-illuminated, structure which is [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
attached to a building wall with the face of the sign approximately parallel to the wall   71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
and with the sign’s area integrated into its surface.                                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1526.png]
AWNING SIGN. Any sign that is a part of, or attached to an awning, canopy or other fabric, [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
plastic or structural protective cover over a door, entrance, window or outdoor service    71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
area. (A MARQUEE is not an AWNING SIGN.)                                                   IMAGES/0-0-0-1528.png]
BANNER SIGN. Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is permanently        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
mounted to a pole or building by a permanent frame at one or more edges. National flags,   71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
state or municipal flags or official flag of any institution or business shall not be      IMAGES/0-0-0-1530.png]
considered banners.
BILLBOARD SIGN. A sign that identifies or communicates a commercial or noncommercial       [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
message related to an activity conducted, a service rendered or a commodity sold at a      71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
location other than where the sign is located.                                             IMAGES/0-0-0-1532.png]
BUILDING MARKER SIGN. Any sign indicating the name of a building and date and incidental   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
information about its construction, in which sign is cut into a masonry surface or made of 71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
bronze or other permanent material and affixed to the building.                            IMAGES/0-0-0-1534.png]
BUILDING SIGN. Any sign supported by, painted on or otherwise attached to any building or  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
structure.                                                                                 71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
                                                                                           IMAGES/0-0-0-1536.png]
CANOPY SIGN. See ARCHITECTURAL CANOPY SIGN or AWNING SIGN.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters or illustrations
which can be changed or rearranged without permanently altering the face or the surface of
the sign. A sign on which the message changes more than eight times per day shall be       [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
considered an animated sign and not a CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN for purposes of this chapter. A 71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
sign on which the only copy changes is an electronic or mechanical indication of time or   IMAGES/0-0-0-1538.png]
temperature shall be considered a “time and temperature” portion of a sign and not a
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN for purposes of this chapter.
COMMEMORATIVE SIGN. A sign issued to honor a person, place, event or item which has        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
historical significance.                                                                   71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
                                                                                           IMAGES/0-0-0-1540.png]
COMMERCIAL MESSAGE SIGN. Any sign wording, logo or other representation that, directly or  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
indirectly, names, advertises or calls attention to a business, product, service or other  71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
commercial activity.                                                                       IMAGES/0-0-0-1542.png]
COMMUNITY OR CIVIC SIGN. A sign containing business logos and/or logos of civic
organizations. The sign is intended to provide space for several businesses and/or
organizations on one sign, and all advertising is similar in size. The primary intent of   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
the COMMUNITY OR CIVIC SIGN is for informational purposes and to communicate information   71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
to the motoring public as to businesses and organizations that are active in the           IMAGES/0-0-0-1544.png]
community. COMMUNITY OR CIVIC SIGNS are owned and operated by the local chamber of
commerce or other civic organization or nonprofit entity.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A temporary sign directly connected with a construction project; may    [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
include the name, addresses and/or telephone number of the company(s) involved with said   71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
construction project. Any CONSTRUCTION SIGNS shall be removed no more than 30 days after   IMAGES/0-0-0-1546.png]
project completion.
DESTINATION SIGN. A sign used to inform and direct the public to important public places   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
and buildings, landmarks and historical sites in the simplest, direct and concise manner   71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
possible. May also be referred to as a WAYFINDING SIGN.                                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1548.png]
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD SIGN. A sign that uses changing lights to form a sign message or  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
messages wherein the sequence of messages and the rate of change is electronically         71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
programmed and can be modified by electronic processes.                                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1550.png]
FLASHING SIGN. A sign, which, by method or manner of illumination, flashes on or off,      [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
winks or blinks with varying light intensity, shows motion or creates the illusion of      71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
being on or off.                                                                           IMAGES/0-0-0-1552.png]
FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign supported by uprights or braces placed on or in the ground,    [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
which is not supported by any building.                                                    71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
                                                                                           IMAGES/0-0-0-1554.png]
GROUND SIGN. A sign mounted directly to the ground which shall not impede vehicular        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
sightlines.                                                                                71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
                                                                                           IMAGES/0-0-0-1556.png]
HISTORICAL MARKER SIGN. See COMMEMORATIVE SIGN.
                                                                                           [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign illuminated in any manner by an artificial light source.          71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
                                                                                           IMAGES/0-0-0-1558.png]
INCIDENTAL SIGN. A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose secondary to the use  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
of the lot on which it is located, such as “no parking,” “entrance,” “loading onl71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
“telephone,” and other similar directives. No sign with a commercial message legible frIMAGES/0-0-0-1560.png]
a position off the lot on which the sign is located shall be considered INCIDENTAL.
MARQUEE SIGN. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or extending  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
along and projecting beyond the wall of the building.                                      71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
                                                                                           IMAGES/0-0-0-1562.png]
                                                                                           [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
NAMEPLATE SIGN. A sign not exceeding two square feet for each dwelling.                    71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
                                                                                           IMAGES/0-0-0-1564.png]
NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign that does not conform to the requirements of this chapter.
OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign including the supporting sign structure which directs the        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
attention of the general public to a business, service or activity not usually conducted,  71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
or a product not offered or sold, upon the premises where such sign is located.            IMAGES/0-0-0-1566.png]
ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign, display or device-advertising activities conducted on the        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
property on which such sign is located.                                                    71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
                                                                                           IMAGES/0-0-0-1568.png]
PENNANT SIGN. Any lightweight plastic, fabric or other material, whether or not containing [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire or string, usually in series, designed  71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
to move in the wind.                                                                       IMAGES/0-0-0-1594.png]
POLE SIGN. A sign that is mounted on a freestanding pole or other support so that the      [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
bottom edge of the sign face is six feet or more above grade.                              71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
                                                                                           IMAGES/0-0-0-1570.png]
PORTABLE SIGN. A sign, usually of a temporary nature, not securely anchored to the ground
or to a building or structure and which obtains some or all of its structural stability
with respect to wind or other normally applied forces by means of its geometry or          [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
character. Examples: menu and sandwich board signs, balloons used as signs, umbrellas used 71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
for advertising and signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the   IMAGES/0-0-0-1572.png]
public right-of-way, unless said vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day operations of
the business.
PROJECTING SIGN. A projecting sign attached to a building in such a manner that its        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
leading edge extends more than eight inches beyond the surface of such building or wall.   71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
                                                                                           IMAGES/0-0-0-1576.png]
REAL ESTATE SIGN. A temporary sign advertising the sale, lease or rent of the property on  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
which said sign is located. The sign shall include the identification and contact          71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
information of the person and/or company handling said sale, lease or rent.                IMAGES/0-0-0-1578.png]
ROOF (INTEGRAL) SIGN. Any sign erected or constructed as an integral or essentially        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, such that no part of the sign      71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof and such that no part of the sign IMAGES/0-0-0-1580.png]
is separated from the rest of the roof by a space of more than six inches.
ROOF SIGN. A sign identifying the name of a business, enterprise or the product sold on    [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
the premises and erected on and over the roof of a building and extending vertically above 71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
the highest portion of the roof.                                                           IMAGES/0-0-0-1582.png]
SUBDIVISION SIGN. A sign which identifies the platted subdivision where the sign is        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
located. Typically located near any entrances into said subdivision.                       71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
                                                                                           IMAGES/0-0-0-1584.png]
SUSPENDED SIGN. A sign that is suspended from the underside of a horizontal plane surface  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
and is supported by such surface.                                                          71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
                                                                                           IMAGES/0-0-0-1586.png]
TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign constructed of cloth, fabric or other material with or without a    [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
structural frame intended for a limited period of display (no more than 90 days),          71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
including displays for holidays or public demonstrations. TEMPORARY SIGNS shall include    IMAGES/0-0-0-1588.png]
portable signs as defined in this section.
WALL SIGN. Any sign attached parallel to, but within eight inches of, a wall, painted on   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
the wall surface of, or erected and confined within the limits of an outside wall of any   71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
building or structure, which is supported by such wall or building, and which displays     IMAGES/0-0-0-1590.png]
only one sign surface.
WINDOW SIGN. Any sign, pictures, symbol or combination thereof, designed to communicate    [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale or service, that is placed 71a48847e65239ddc5781b6b2a8a41babea7db7b/
inside a window or upon the window panes/glass and is visible from the exterior of the     IMAGES/0-0-0-1592.png]
window.
 
   SIGN SETBACK. The horizontal distance from the property line to the nearest
projection of the existing or proposed sign.
   SINGLE-FAMILY, ATTACHED. A dwelling having a common wall with another
dwelling. The common wall is on a lot line dividing two residential lots. Each
dwelling may be the property of two different owners.
   SITE PLAN. A plan, prepared to scale, showing accurately and with complete
dimensioning, the boundaries of a site and the location of all buildings,
structures, uses and principal site development features proposed for a
specific parcel of land.
   SOLID WASTE LANDFILL. A lot or parcel of land used primarily for the
disposal, abandonment, dumping, burial or burning of garbage, sewage, trash,
refuse, junk, discarded machinery or motor vehicles, or parts thereof, or other
waste, and which is in conformance with the requirements of the State
Department of Environmental Quality and State Department of Health and Human
Service System.
   SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATION. A collection point for temporary storage of
refuse. No processing of refuse would be allowed. The TRANSFER STATION must be
in conformance with the requirements of the State Department of Environmental
Quality and State Department of Health and Human Service System.
   STORAGE BUILDING. A building or structure used, or intended to be used, for
the sole purpose of storing goods and materials.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it,
the space between such floor and the ceiling above it. A basement shall be
counted as a STORY if its ceiling is over six feet above the average level of
the finished ground surface adjoining the exterior walls of such story, or it
is used for business or dwelling purposes.
   STREET. The area of land plated and dedicated for public use, or lawfully
used, as a public thoroughfare for vehicular travel; excluding from this
definition access ways commonly designated as alleys.
   STREET, CENTERLINE. A line midway between street lines.
   STREET LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and the
contiguous street. The right-of-way line of a STREET.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders; any substantial
change in the roof or in the exterior walls, excepting from this definition
such alterations as may be required for the safety of the building.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a
permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent
location on the ground, but not including fences or public items such as
utility poles, street light fixtures and street signs.
   SUBDIVIDER. The owners, developers or agents of persons or corporations
affecting subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, sites or other divisions of land for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of ownership or building development. The term includes RE-SUBDIVISION
and, when appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process of
subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   SURVEYOR. Any person registered in the state to practice surveying.
   TEMPORARY USE. A prospective use, intended for limited duration to be
located in a zoning district not permitting such use and not continuing a
nonconforming use or building.
   THOROUGHFARE, STREET or ROAD. The full width between property lines bounding
every public way of whatever nature, with a part thereof to be used for
vehicular traffic and designated as follows.
      (1)   ALLEY. A dedicated public right-of-way, other than a street, which
provides only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
      (2)   ARTERIAL STREET. A street which provides for through traffic
movement between and around streets with direct access to abutting property,
subject to necessary control of entrances, exits and curb use.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which provides for traffic movement
between arterials and local streets, with direct access to abutting property.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street of relatively short length with one end
open to traffic and the other end terminating in a vehicular turnaround.
      (5)   DEAD-END STREET. A street temporarily having only one outlet for
vehicular traffic and intended to be extended or continued in the future.
      (6)   LOCAL STREET. A street which provides direct access to abutting
land and local traffic movement, whether in business, industrial or residential
land.
      (7)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A local or collector street, parallel and
adjacent to an arterial or collector street, providing access to abutting
properties and protection from arterial or collector streets. (Also called
FRONTAGE STREET or SERVICE ROAD.)
   TOWNHOUSE. One of a group or row of not less than two nor more than 12
attached, single-family dwellings designed and built as a single structure
facing upon a street in which the individual townhouse may or may not be owned
separately. For the purpose of the side yard regulations, the structure
containing the row or group of townhouses shall be considered as one building
occupying a single lot.
   VARIANCE. A dispensation permitted by the Board of Adjustment relieving a
property owner from dimensional requirements of the zoning regulations which
would cause exceptional practical difficulties or exceptional and undue
hardship.
   VICINITY MAP. A drawing located on the plat which sets forth by dimensions
or other means, the relationship of the proposed subdivision or use to other
nearby developments or landmarks and community facilities and services within
the village, in order to better locate and orient the area in question.
   YARD. A space on a lot that is open, unoccupied and unobstructed by
buildings or structures from the ground upward.
      (1)   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the least distance between a front lot/property line and the
front setback line.
      (2)   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, of
which is the least distance between the rear lot/property line and the rear
setback line.
      (3)   YARD, REQUIRED. The required minimum open space between the
property line and the yard line. The REQUIRED YARD shall contain no building or
structure other than the projection of the usual steps, or open porches, or as
otherwise provided in these regulations.
      (4)   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the front yard, or front lot line
where no front yard is required, to the rear yard.
   ZERO LOT LINE. The location of a building on a lot in such a manner that one
or more of the building’s sides rests directly on a lot line.
   ZONING. A police power measure in which the community is divided into
districts or zones within which permitted and conditional uses are established
as are regulations governing lot size, building bulk, placement and other
development standards.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. An appointed official whose primary responsibility is
to enforce zoning regulations.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area delineated on a zoning map for which uniform use
regulations are specified.
   ZONING MAP. A map or maps officially enacted by the governing body as part
of this chapter showing the boundaries of a zoning district or districts, a
copy or copies of which, certified to have been enacted as provided by law, is
filed in the office of the Village Clerk as an official record of the village.
§ 1-4.7 UNDEFINED WORDS.
   Words or terms not herein defined shall have their ordinary meaning in
relation to the context.
**** ARTICLE 5: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES ****
§ 1-5.1 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine, determined by the village,
for each. Each and every day that such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a violation exists as defined in these regulations, the
village may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the
manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a violation exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
CHAPTER 2: DISTRICT USE REGULATIONS
**** ARTICLE 1: A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT ****
§ 2-1.1 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this district to provide for agricultural and related
uses in the manner which will encourage agricultural uses and proper
development.
§ 2-1.2 PERMITTED USES.
   In District A-1, no building, structure, land or premises shall be used, and
no building or structure shall be hereafter erected constructed, reconstructed,
moved or altered except for one or more of the following uses:
   (A)   Farming, pasturing, truck gardening, orchards and nurseries, including
the sale of products raised on the premises. No livestock feedlot shall be
established for more than 50 animals (number of head);
   (B)   Horse stables and ranches;
   (C)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental other listed
permitted uses;
   (D)   Barndominium;
   (E)   Churches and other places of worship;
   (F)   Green house;
   (G)   Manufactured homes following requirements set forth in this chapter;
   (H)   Modular homes;
   (I)   Plant nursery;
   (J)   Public or private schools;
   (K)   Publicly owned or operated parks, playgrounds, golf courses and
recreational uses;
   (L)   Short-term lodging; and
   (M)   Single-family dwellings.
§ 2-1.3 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses may be permitted subject to approval
procedures outlined in these regulations:
   (A)   Airports and airfields;
   (B)   Anhydrous ammonia storage and distribution; provided such storage and
distribution shall not be within 1,320 feet of any residential district
boundary;
   (C)   Auto wrecking yards, junk yards, salvage yards and scrap processing
yards;
   (D)   Cemeteries including mausoleums; provided, that mausoleums shall be at
least 200 feet from every street line and adjoining lot lines;
   (E)   Commercial wind energy systems;
   (F)   Communication towers;
   (G)   Earth-sheltered residences;
   (H)   Hospitals and institutions of an educational, religious, charitable or
philanthropic nature;
   (I)   Kennels, breeding and boarding;
   (J)   Meteorological towers;
   (K)   Mobile homes;
   (L)   Non-commercial wind energy systems;
   (M)   Other publicly owned buildings and uses not specifically listed
elsewhere in this district;
   (N)   Seasonal or temporary uses such as a recreation camp or similar
enterprises;
   (O)   Solid waste disposal and processing sites which include landfills,
incinerators, transfer stations and other similar functions;
   (P)   Telephone exchanges, electric substations or similar public utility
uses; and
   (Q)   The extraction of minerals or raw minerals and the processing,
treating or storing of such minerals or materials.
§ 2-1.4 SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
Regulator Uses Permitted
Regulator                 Uses Permitted
Maximum building coverage N/A
Maximum height (feet)     35*
Minimum lot area          10 acres
Minimum lot depth (feet)  200
Minimum lot width (feet)  200
Minimum yards (feet)
Front yard                50
Rear yard                 100
Side yard                 25
Street side yard          50
Notes to Table:
* Except that barns, silos and other agriculture structures may be of any
height. Communication towers, meteorological towers and wind energy systems
are regulated by the height restrictions set forth in the associated sections
of these regulations.
 
**** ARTICLE 2: TA TRANSITIONAL AGRICULTURE DISTRICT ****
§ 2-2.1 INTENT.
   (A)   This district is intended for transitional agricultural purposes
within the village’s jurisdiction.
   (B)   This zone is intended to provide for low-density, acreage residential
development and some agricultural uses in selected areas adjacent to or in
close proximity to the corporate limits of the village and other developed
areas which will facilitate the eventual conversion of the land in this
district to more intensive urban uses.
§ 2-2.2 PERMITTED USES.
   In District TA, no building, structure, land or premises shall be used and
no building or structure shall be hereafter erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved or altered, except for one or more of the following uses:
   (A)   Farming, pasturing, truck gardening, orchards and nurseries, including
the sale of products raised on the premises. No livestock feedlot shall be
established for more than ten animals (number of head);
   (B)   Horse stables and ranches;
   (C)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental other listed
permitted uses;
   (D)   Barndominium;
   (E)   Churches, places of worship and cemeteries;
   (F)   Community buildings and/or facilities owned and/or occupied by public
agencies;
   (G)   Irrigation and flood control projects;
   (H)   Manufactured homes which comply with this chapter;
   (I)   Public and/or private schools;
   (J)   Public parks and recreational areas;
   (K)   Roadside stands for the sale of agricultural produce grown on the
agricultural farm operation;
   (L)   Short-term lodging; and
   (M)   Single-family dwelling.
§ 2-2.3 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses may be permitted subject to approval
procedures outlined in these regulations:
   (A)   Campground, RV park, camper pads and associated uses;
   (B)   Communication towers;
   (C)   Earth-sheltered residences;
   (D)   Greenhouses and nurseries;
   (E)   Group homes;
   (F)   Medical clinics;
   (G)   Meteorological towers;
   (H)   Mortuaries;
   (I)   Non-commercial wind energy systems;
   (J)   Nonprofit institutions of an educational, philanthropic or charitable
nature, except for penal or mental institutions;
   (K)   Public and private golf courses; and
   (L)   Telephone exchanges, electric substations or other similar public
utilities.
§ 2-2.4 SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
Regulator Residential Other Permitted Uses
Regulator                 Residential Other Permitted Uses
Maximum building coverage 55%         55%
Maximum height (feet)     35*         35*
Minimum lot area          3 acres     3 acres
Minimum lot depth (feet)  200         200
Minimum lot width (feet)  150         150
Minimum yards (feet)
Front yard                50          50
Rear yard                 100         100
Side yard                 25          25
Street side yard          50          50
Notes to Table:
* Except that barns, silos and other agriculture structures may be of any
height. Communication towers, meteorological towers and wind energy systems
are regulated by the height restrictions set forth in the associated sections
of these regulations.
 
§ 2-2.5 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   All accessory buildings and structures within the TA District shall comply
with the following regulations.
   (A)   No accessory buildings or structures shall be erected in the defined
street side yard. The front side of an accessory building or structure may be
constructed to sit in front of the front side of the principle structure, but
shall not extend any further than five feet.
   (B)   Accessory buildings may be located in the rear yard and side yard, but
shall not be closer than five feet to the rear or side lot line except that if
the building has a vehicular alley entrance, the setback of the structure shall
not be less than ten feet from the alley line.
   (C)   No accessory structure shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the principle building has been started unless the accessory
structure will serve as the temporary residence.
   (D)   The sum of all detached accessory buildings or uses shall not exceed
8,000 square feet in gross floor area and the maximum peak height, measured
from the finished floor to the peak line of the roof, shall not exceed 25 feet
in height. No more than three detached accessory buildings or uses shall be
permitted.
   (E)   Detached accessory buildings over 225 square feet shall be permanently
anchored to a foundation. All detached accessory buildings under 225 square
feet shall be firmly anchored to the ground or a foundation in accordance with
local building codes.
   (F)   Any accessory building shall have a minimum vertical rise of three
inches in each 12 inches of horizontal run and a building design that is
harmonious with the character of the neighborhood.
   (G)   No Quonset, hoop or fabric covered type buildings shall be permitted.
No portion of any accessory building shall be covered with unpainted or
uncoated galvanized tin, “strong barn,” imperial ribbed, corrugated sheets or
panels or any other similar-type material. For the safety of vehicular traffic,
metal siding or roofing must be painted or coated with an unobtrusive, non-
reflective color.
§ 2-2.6 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Computation of area of individual signs. The area of a sign face shall
be computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle or
combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing,
representation, emblem or other display, together with any material or color
forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed, but not including any supporting framework, bracing or decorative fence
or wall when such fence or wall otherwise meets zoning regulations and is
clearly identical to the display itself.
   (B)   Computation of height of signs. The height of a sign shall be computed
as the distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the
highest attached component of the sign. In cases in which the normal grade
cannot reasonably be determined, sign height shall be computed on the
assumption that the elevation of the normal grade at the base of the sign is
equal to the elevation of the nearest point of the crown of a public street or
the grade of the land at the principal entrance to the principal structure on
the lot, parcel or tract of land, whichever is lower. When a sign is placed on
a berm, the height of the sign shall include the height of the berm above grade
level at the base of the berm.
   (C)   Permitted signage. Permitted signs and the maximum number of signs
allowed per lot and the maximum surface area and maximum height of each signage
type for the Transitional Agriculture District is outlined in the table below.
Signs meeting the definition of “abandoned sign” must be removed at the expense
of the owner.
Type of Signage P/NP/T Max. Surface Area  Maximum Height (ft.) Maximum Number
                       (sq. ft.)
Type of Signage    P/NP/T Max. Surface Area  Maximum Height  Maximum Number
                          (sq. ft.)          (ft.)
Animated           NP     -                  -               -
Announcement       P      32                 4               1
Architectural      P      205                45              11
canopy
Banner             P      32                 8               3
Changeable copy    P      32                 8               2
Destination        P      16                 8               1
Electronic message P      100                20              1
board
Flashing           NP     -                  -               -
Freestanding       T      32                 4               1
Ground             P      50                 10              1
Illuminated        P      (reference corresponding type of signage)
Marquee            NP     -                  -               -
Nameplate          P      2                  -               1
Off-premises       NP     -                  -               -
(billboard)
On-premises        P      640                30              1
(billboard)
Pennant            P      32                 -               -
Pole               NP     -                  -               -
Portable           P      32                 4               1
Projecting         P      16                 45              1
Roof               P      250                42              1
Roof-integrated    P      250                45              1
Subdivision        P      (reference corresponding type of signage)
Suspended          P      20                 10              1
Temporary          P      (reference corresponding type of signage)
Wall               P      2,002              15              1
Window             P      2,002              15              1
Notes to Table:
P = Permitted NP = Not permitted T = Temporary
1. One canopy per window; canopy shall meet all minimum height requirements
for accessibility.
2. Wall/window signs shall not exceed 10% of the total wall area.
 
   (D)   Signs, special conditions.
      (1)   Billboard signs. Billboards, signboards and other similar signs
shall be subject to the same height and location requirements as other
structures within the district and shall also be subject to the following
conditions and restrictions.
         (a)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising signs shall be
located at intersections so as to obstruct vision, hearing or interfere with
pedestrian or vehicular safety.
         (b)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising signs shall be
located within 50 feet of any lot in a residential district.
         (c)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising signs shall be so
constructed or located where it will unreasonably interfere with the use and
enjoyment of adjoining property.
      (2)   Hanging signs. Signs hung from canopies and awnings shall maintain
80 inches of clear space, as measured from the bottom edge of the sign to the
grade below.
      (3)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs may be for a continual period.
Said temporary signs shall not be in place for more than four days prior to the
event and shall be removed within 36 hours of the conclusion of said event.
      (4)   Signs on public property. Any sign installed or placed on public
property, except in conformance with the requirements of this section, shall be
forfeited to the public and subject to confiscation. In addition to other
remedies hereunder, the village shall have the right to recover from the owner
or person placing such a sign the full costs of removal and disposal of such
sign.
      (5)   Signs exempt from regulation. The following signs shall be exempt
from regulation under this chapter, except no sign described herein shall
create an obstruction to vision and/or a collision hazard to the public:
         (a)   Any public notice or warning required by a valid and applicable
federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance;
         (b)   Any religious symbol;
         (c)   Construction signs on the construction site, visible from the
public right-of-way, is removed at or prior to the end of the construction
period;
         (d)   Any sign identifying a public facility or public/civic event;
         (e)   Any sign inside a building, not attached to a window or door,
that is not legible from a distance of more than three feet beyond the lot line
of the zone lot or parcel on which such sign is located;
         (f)   Holiday lights and decorations with no commercial message;
         (g)   Traffic control signs on private property, such as stop, yield
and similar signs, the face of which meets the “Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices” standards and which contain no commercial message of any sort;
and
         (h)   A political sign exhibited in a residential zone in conjunction
with the election of political candidates. Such signs may not exceed six square
feet in any zone. Only four political signs shall be allowed per zone lot at
any one time. All such political signs shall not be erected more than 30 days
before the election and shall be removed no later than ten days after the
election. Political signs shall not create an obstruction within the R.O.W.
**** ARTICLE 3: LLR LARGE LOT RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT ****
§ 2-3.1 INTENT.
   The intent of this district is to provide for low density, acreage
residential development within the jurisdiction of the village. These lots will
be residential in nature.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 7-13-2022)
§ 2-3.2 PERMITTED USES.
   In District LLR, no building, structure, land or premises shall be used and
no building or structure shall be hereafter erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved or altered, except for one or more of the following uses:
   (A)   Churches, places of worship and cemeteries;
   (B)   Community buildings and/or facilities owned and/or occupied by public
agencies;
   (C)   Irrigation and flood control projects;
   (D)   Manufactured homes which comply with this chapter;
   (E)   Public and/or private schools;
   (F)   Public parks and recreational areas;
   (G)   Short-term lodging;
   (H)   Single-family dwelling; and
   (I)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to those listed
above.
§ 2-3.3 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses may be permitted subject to approval
procedures outlined in these regulations:
   (A)   Bed and breakfast homes;
   (B)   Campground, RV park, camper pads and associated uses;
   (C)   Child care centers;
   (D)   Communication towers;
   (E)   Earth-sheltered residences;
   (F)   Greenhouses and nurseries;
   (G)   Group homes;
   (H)   Medical clinics;
   (I)   Meteorological towers;
   (J)   Mortuaries;
   (K)   Multi-family dwellings;
   (L)   Non-commercial wind energy systems;
   (M)   Telephone exchanges, electric substations or other similar public
utilities;
   (N)   Nonprofit institutions of an educational, philanthropic or charitable
nature, except for penal or mental institutions; and
   (O)   Public and private golf courses.
§ 2-3.4 SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
Regulator Residential Other Permitted Uses
Regulator                 Residential Other Permitted Uses
Maximum building coverage 50%         50%
Maximum height (feet)     35          35
Minimum lot area          0.75 acres  0.75 acres
Minimum lot width (feet)  100         100
Minimum yards (feet)
Front yard                30          30
Rear yard                 40          40
Side yard                 15          15
Street side yard          30          30
 
§ 2-3.5 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   All accessory buildings and structures within the LLR District shall comply
with the following regulations.
   (A)   No accessory buildings or structures shall be erected in the defined
street side yard. The front side of an accessory building or structure may be
constructed to sit in front of the front side of the principle structure, but
shall not extend any further than five feet.
   (B)   Accessory buildings may be located in the rear yard and side yard, but
shall not be closer than five feet to the rear or side lot line except that if
the building has a vehicular alley entrance, the setback of the structure shall
not be less than ten feet from the alley line.
   (C)   No accessory structure shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the principle building has been started or be used for dwelling
purposes.
   (D)   A detached accessory building or use shall not exceed 70% of the gross
floor area of the principle building on the same lot. This will be measured in
gross floor area, from the footprint of the main level of the principle
structure. The maximum peak height, measured from the finished floor to the
peak line of the roof, shall not exceed 25 feet in height. Two detached
accessory structures or uses will be allowed per lot.
   (E)   Detached accessory buildings over 225 square feet shall be permanently
anchored to a foundation. All detached accessory buildings under 225 square
feet shall be firmly anchored to the ground or a foundation in accordance with
local building codes.
   (F)   Any accessory building shall have a minimum vertical rise of three
inches in each 12 inches of horizontal run and a building design that is
harmonious with the character of the neighborhood.
   (G)   No Quonset type buildings shall be permitted. No portion of any
accessory building shall be covered with unpainted or uncoated galvanized tin,
“strong barn,” imperial ribbed, corrugated sheets or panels or any other
similar-type material. For the safety of vehicular traffic, metal siding or
roofing must be painted or coated with an unobtrusive, non-reflective color.
§ 2-3.6 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Computation of area of individual signs. The area of a sign face shall
be computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle or
combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing,
representation, emblem or other display, together with any material or color
forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed, but not including any supporting framework, bracing or decorative fence
or wall when such fence or wall otherwise meets zoning regulations and is
clearly identical to the display itself.
   (B)   Computation of height of signs. The height of a sign shall be computed
as the distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the
highest attached component of the sign. In cases in which the normal grade
cannot reasonably be determined, sign height shall be computed on the
assumption that the elevation of the normal grade at the base of the sign is
equal to the elevation of the nearest point of the crown of a public street or
the grade of the land at the principal entrance to the principal structure on
the lot, parcel or tract of land, whichever is lower. When a sign is placed on
a berm, the height of the sign shall include the height of the berm above grade
level at the base of the berm.
   (C)   Permitted signage. Permitted signs and the maximum number of signs
allowed per lot and the maximum surface area and maximum height of each signage
type for the Large Lot Residential District is outlined in the table below.
Signs meeting the definition of “abandoned sign” must be removed at the expense
of the owner.
Type of Signage P/NP/T Max. Surface Area  Maximum Height (ft.) Maximum Number
                       (sq. ft.)
Type of Signage    P/NP/T Max. Surface Area  Maximum Height  Maximum Number
                          (sq. ft.)          (ft.)
Animated           NP     -                  -               -
Announcement       P      6                  4               1
Architectural      NP     -                  -               -
canopy
Banner             NP     -                  -               -
Changeable copy    NP     -                  -               -
Destination        P      16                 8               1
Electronic message NP     -                  -               -
board
Flashing           NP     -                  -               -
Freestanding       T      32                 4               1
Ground             NP     -                  -               -
Illuminated        NP     -                  -               -
Marquee            NP     -                  -               -
Nameplate          P      2                  -               1
Off-premises       NP     -                  -               -
(billboard)
On-premises        NP     -                  -               -
(billboard)
Pennant            NP     -                  -               -
Pole               NP     -                  -               -
Portable           T      32                 4               1
Projecting         NP     -                  -               -
Roof               NP     -                  -               -
Roof-integrated    NP     -                  -               -
Subdivision        P      100                10              1
Suspended          NP     -                  -               -
Temporary          P      50                 8               2
Wall               NP     -                  -               -
Window             NP     -                  -               -
Notes to Table:
P = Permitted NP = Not permitted T = Temporary
 
   (D)   Signs, special conditions.
      (1)   Billboard signs. Billboards, signboards and other similar signs
shall be subject to the same height and location requirements as other
structures within the district and shall also be subject to the following
conditions and restrictions.
         (a)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising signs shall be
located at intersections so as to obstruct vision, hearing or interfere with
pedestrian or vehicular safety.
         (b)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising signs shall be
located within 50 feet of any lot in a residential district.
         (c)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising signs shall be so
constructed or located where it will unreasonably interfere with the use and
enjoyment of adjoining property.
      (2)   Hanging signs. Signs hung from canopies and awnings shall maintain
80 inches of clear space, as measured from the bottom edge of the sign to the
grade below.
      (3)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs may be for a continual period.
Said temporary signs shall not be in place for more than four days prior to the
event and shall be removed within 36 hours of the conclusion of said event.
      (4)   Signs on public property. Any sign installed or placed on public
property, except in conformance with the requirements of this section, shall be
forfeited to the public and subject to confiscation. In addition to other
remedies hereunder, the village shall have the right to recover from the owner
or person placing such a sign the full costs of removal and disposal of such
sign.
      (5)   Signs exempt from regulation. The following signs shall be exempt
from regulation under this chapter, except no sign in this provision shall
create an obstruction to vision and/or a collision hazard to the public:
         (a)   Any public notice or warning required by a valid and applicable
federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance;
         (b)   Any religious symbol;
         (c)   Construction signs on the construction site, visible from the
public right-of-way, is removed at or prior to the end of the construction
period;
         (d)   Any sign identifying a public facility or public/civic event;
         (e)   Any sign inside a building, not attached to a window or door,
that is not legible from a distance of more than three feet beyond the lot line
of the zone lot or parcel on which such sign is located;
         (f)   Holiday lights and decorations with no commercial message;
         (g)   Traffic control signs on private property, such as stop, yield
and similar signs, the face of which meets the “Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices” standards and which contain no commercial message of any sort;
and
         (h)   A political sign exhibited in a residential zone in conjunction
with the election of political candidates. Such signs may not exceed six square
feet in any zone. Only four political signs shall be allowed per zone lot at
any one time. All such political signs shall not be erected more than 30 days
before the election and shall be removed no later than ten days after the
election. Political signs shall not create an obstruction within the R.O.W.
**** ARTICLE 4: R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT ****
§ 2-4.1 INTENT.
   The intent of this district is to provide for low density residential
development in a manner which will encourage a strong residential neighborhood.
§ 2-4.2 PERMITTED USES.
   In District R-1, no building, structure, land or premises shall be used and
no building or structure shall be hereafter erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved or altered, except for one or more of the following uses:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Two-family dwellings; duplexes;
   (C)   Multi-family dwellings;
   (D)   Churches;
   (E)   Hospitals;
   (F)   Manufactured homes following requirements set forth in this chapter;
   (G)   Nursing or convalescent homes;
   (H)   Public parks, playgrounds, municipal swimming pools and schools;
   (I)   Public utilities, municipal library and other similar type uses;
   (J)   Short-term lodging; and
   (K)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses.
§ 2-4.3 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses may be permitted subject to approval
procedures outlined in these regulations:
   (A)   Bed and breakfast homes;
   (B)   Campground, RV park, camper pads and associated uses;
   (C)   Child care centers;
   (D)   County Courthouse, offices, penal institutions;
   (E)   Earth-sheltered residences;
   (F)   Group homes;
   (G)   Home occupations;
   (H)   Medical clinics;
   (I)   Mortuaries;
   (J)   Multi-family dwellings;
   (K)   Nonprofit institutions of an educational, philanthropic or charitable
nature, except for mental institutions;
   (L)   Public and private golf courses; and
   (M)   Telephone exchanges, electric substations or other similar public
utilities.
§ 2-4.4 SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
Regulator Residential Single-Family Residential Two-Family Other Permitted Uses
Regulator          Residential Single- Residential Two-    Other Permitted Uses
                   Family              Family
Maximum building   45%                 45%                 45%
coverage
Maximum height     35                  35                  35
(feet)
Minimum lot area   5,800               2,900/dwelling unit 5,800
(sq. ft.)
Minimum lot width  44                  44/dwelling unit    44
(feet)
Minimum yards
(feet)
Front yard         25                  25                  25
Rear yard          20                  20                  20
Side yard          10                  10*                 10
Street side yard   25                  25                  25
Notes to Table:
* The side yard setback between individual units of two-family dwellings may be
reduced to zero, if a two-hour fire rated constructed common wall between units
starting at the basement level and continuing through to the roof line is
maintained.
 
§ 2-4.5 USE LIMITATIONS.
   The following are not permitted in the R-1 Zoning District:
   (A)   Communication towers;
   (B)   Meteorological towers;
   (C)   Non-commercial wind energy systems; and
   (D)   Commercial wind energy systems.
§ 2-4.6 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   All accessory buildings and structures within the R-1 District shall comply
with the following regulations.
   (A)   No accessory buildings or structures shall be erected in the defined
street side yard. The front side of an accessory building or structure may be
constructed to sit in front of the front side of the principle structure, but
shall not extend any further than five feet.
   (B)   Accessory buildings may be located in the rear yard and side yard, but
shall not be closer than five feet to the rear or side lot line except that if
the building has a vehicular alley entrance, the setback of the structure shall
not be less than ten feet from the alley line.
   (C)   No accessory structure shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the principle building has been started or be used for dwelling
purposes.
   (D)   No detached accessory building or use shall be larger than 1,000
square feet in gross floor area. The sum of all detached accessory buildings or
uses shall not exceed 1,200 square feet in gross floor area and the maximum
peak height, measured from the finished floor to the peak line of the roof,
shall not exceed 25 feet in height. No more than two detached accessory
buildings or uses shall be permitted.
   (E)   Detached accessory buildings over 225 square feet shall be permanently
anchored to a foundation. All detached accessory buildings under 225 square
feet shall be firmly anchored to the ground or a foundation in accordance with
local building codes.
   (F)   Any accessory building shall have a minimum vertical rise of three
inches in each 12 inches of horizontal run and a building design that is
harmonious with the character of the neighborhood.
   (G)   No Quonset type buildings shall be permitted. No portion of any
accessory building shall be covered with unpainted or uncoated galvanized tin,
“strong barn,” imperial ribbed, corrugated sheets or panels, or any other
similar-type material. For the safety of vehicular traffic, metal siding or
roofing must be painted or coated with an unobtrusive, non-reflective color.
§ 2-4.7 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Computation of area of individual signs. The area of a sign face shall
be computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle or
combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing,
representation, emblem or other display, together with any material or color
forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed, but not including any supporting framework, bracing or decorative fence
or wall when such fence or wall otherwise meets zoning regulations and is
clearly identical to the display itself.
   (B)   Computation of height of signs. The height of a sign shall be computed
as the distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the
highest attached component of the sign. In cases in which the normal grade
cannot reasonably be determined, sign height shall be computed on the
assumption that the elevation of the normal grade at the base of the sign is
equal to the elevation of the nearest point of the crown of a public street or
the grade of the land at the principal entrance to the principal structure on
the lot, parcel or tract of land, whichever is lower. When a sign is placed on
a berm, the height of the sign shall include the height of the berm above grade
level at the base of the berm.
   (C)   Permitted signage. Permitted signs and the maximum number of signs
allowed per lot and the maximum surface area and maximum height of each signage
type for the Single-Family Residential District is outlined in the table below.
Signs meeting the definition of “abandoned sign” must be removed at the expense
of the owner.
Type of Signage P/NP/T Max. Surface Area  Maximum Height (ft.) Maximum Number
                       (sq. ft.)
Type of Signage    P/NP/T Max. Surface Area  Maximum Height  Maximum Number
                          (sq. ft.)          (ft.)
Animated           NP     -                  -               -
Announcement       P      6                  4               1
Architectural      NP     -                  -               -
canopy
Banner             NP     -                  -               -
Changeable copy    NP     -                  -               -
Destination        P      16                 8               1
Electronic message NP     -                  -               -
board
Flashing           NP     -                  -               -
Freestanding       T      32                 4               1
Ground             NP     -                  -               -
Illuminated        NP     -                  -               -
Marquee            NP     -                  -               -
Nameplate          P      2                  -               1
Off-premises       NP     -                  -               -
(billboard)
On-premises        NP     -                  -               -
(billboard)
Pennant            NP     -                  -               -
Pole               NP     -                  -               -
Portable           T      32                 4               1
Projecting         NP     -                  -               -
Roof               NP     -                  -               -
Roof-integrated    NP     -                  -               -
Subdivision        P      100                10              1
Suspended          NP     -                  -               -
Temporary          P      50                 8               2
Wall               NP     -                  -               -
Window             NP     -                  -               -
Notes to Table:
P = Permitted NP = Not permitted T = Temporary
 
   (D)   Signs, special conditions.
      (1)   Billboard signs. Billboards, signboards and other similar signs
shall be subject to the same height and location requirements as other
structures within the district and shall also be subject to the following
conditions and restrictions.
         (a)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising signs shall be
located at intersections so as to obstruct vision, hearing or interfere with
pedestrian or vehicular safety.
         (b)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising signs shall be
located within 50 feet of any lot in a residential district.
         (c)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising signs shall be so
constructed or located where it will unreasonably interfere with the use and
enjoyment of adjoining property.
      (2)   Hanging signs. Signs hung from canopies and awnings shall maintain
80 inches of clear space, as measured from the bottom edge of the sign to the
grade below.
      (3)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs may be for a continual period.
Said temporary signs shall not be in place for more than four days prior to the
event and shall be removed within 36 hours of the conclusion of said event.
      (4)   Signs on public property. Any sign installed or placed on public
property, except in conformance with the requirements of this section, shall be
forfeited to the public and subject to confiscation. In addition to other
remedies hereunder, the village shall have the right to recover from the owner
or person placing such a sign the full costs of removal and disposal of such
sign.
      (5)   Signs exempt from regulation. The following signs shall be exempt
from regulation under this chapter, except no sign in this provision shall
create an obstruction to vision and/or a collision hazard to the public:
         (a)   Any public notice or warning required by a valid and applicable
federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance;
         (b)   Any religious symbol;
         (c)   Construction signs on the construction site, visible from the
public right-of-way, is removed at or prior to the end of the construction
period;
         (d)   Any sign identifying a public facility or public/civic event;
         (e)   Any sign inside a building, not attached to a window or door,
that is not legible from a distance of more than three feet beyond the lot line
of the zone lot or parcel on which such sign is located;
         (f)   Holiday lights and decorations with no commercial message;
         (g)   Traffic control signs on private property, such as stop, yield
and similar signs, the face of which meets the “Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices” standards and which contain no commercial message of any sort;
and
         (h)   A political sign exhibited in a residential zone in conjunction
with the election of political candidates. Such signs may not exceed six square
feet in any zone. Only four political signs shall be allowed per zone lot at
any one time. All such political signs shall not be erected more than 30 days
before the election and shall be removed no later than ten days after the
election. Political signs shall not create an obstruction within the R.O.W.
**** ARTICLE 5: M-U MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT ****
§ 2-5.1 INTENT.
   The intent of this district is to provide for mixed use development,
including residential, storage and noninvasive commercial properties. The goal
of this district is to maintain a primarily residential feel through proper
regulations, while allowing for mixed development.
§ 2-5.2 PERMITTED USES.
   In District M-U, no building, structure, land or premises shall be used and
no building or structure shall be hereafter erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved or altered, except for one or more of the following uses:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Two-family dwellings; duplexes;
   (C)   Multi-family dwellings;
   (D)   Bed and breakfast homes;
   (E)   Boarding and lodging houses;
   (F)   Churches;
   (G)   Hospitals;
   (H)   Manufactured homes following requirements set forth in this chapter;
   (I)   Nursing or convalescent homes;
   (J)   Public parks, playgrounds and schools;
   (K)   Short-term lodging; and
   (L)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses.
§ 2-5.3 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses may be permitted subject to approval
procedures outlined in these regulations:
   (A)   Accessory buildings or uses larger than the sizes outlined within the
M-U District requirements;
   (B)   Barndominium;
   (C)   Buildings used for storage (private or commercial, in nature);
   (D)   Campground, RV park, camper pads and associated uses;
   (E)   Child care centers;
   (F)   Condominiums;
   (G)   Group homes;
   (H)   Home occupations;
   (I)   Medical clinics;
   (J)   Mortuaries;
   (K)   Nonprofit institutions of an educational, philanthropic or charitable
nature, except for penal or mental institutions; and
   (L)   Telephone exchanges, electric substations or other similar public
utilities.
§ 2-5.4 SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
Regulator Residential Single-family Residential Two-family Other Permitted Uses
Regulator          Residential Single- Residential Two-    Other Permitted Uses
                   family              family
Maximum building   50%                 50%                 50%
coverage
Maximum height     35                  35                  35
(feet)
Minimum lot area   5,800               2,900/dwelling unit 5,800
(sq. ft.)
Minimum lot width  44                  44/dwelling unit    44
(feet)
Minimum yards
(feet)
Front yard         25                  25                  25
Rear yard          20                  20                  20
Side yard          10                  10*                 10
Street side yard   25                  25                  25
Notes to Table:
* The side yard setback between individual units of two-family dwellings may be
reduced to zero, if a two-hour fire rated constructed common wall between units
starting at the basement level and continuing through to the roof line is
maintained.
 
§ 2-5.5 USE LIMITATIONS.
   The following are not permitted in the M-U Zoning District:
   (A)   Communication towers;
   (B)   Meteorological towers;
   (C)   Non-commercial wind energy systems; and
   (D)   Commercial wind energy systems.
§ 2-5.6 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   All accessory buildings and structures within the M-U District shall comply
with the following regulations.
   (A)   No accessory buildings or structures shall be erected in the defined
street side yard. The front side of an accessory building or structure may be
constructed to sit in front of the front side of the principle structure, but
shall not extend any further than five feet.
   (B)   Accessory buildings may be located in the rear yard and side yard, but
shall not be closer than five feet to the rear or side lot line except that if
the building has a vehicular alley entrance, the setback of the structure shall
not be less than ten feet from the alley line.
   (C)   No accessory structure shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the principle building has been started or be used for dwelling
purposes.
   (D)   Any accessory building or use within the M-U District shall meet the
following size standards. A larger building may be allowed, after a public
hearing with the Planning Commission and Village Board, as a conditional use.
      (1)   The sum of all detached accessory buildings or uses shall not
exceed 2,000 square feet in gross floor area for every 50 feet in lot width.
However, the sum of all detached accessory buildings or uses shall not exceed
3,000 square feet in gross floor area. A maximum of two detached accessory
structures or uses will be allowed per lot.
      (2)   The maximum peak height, measured from the finished floor to the
peak line of the roof, shall not exceed 25 feet in height for every 50 feet in
lot width. However, no building shall be taller than 35 feet, measured to the
top of the peak.
   (E)   Detached accessory buildings over 225 square feet shall be permanently
anchored to a foundation. All detached accessory buildings under 225 square
feet shall be firmly anchored to the ground or a foundation in accordance with
local building codes.
   (F)   Any accessory building shall have a minimum vertical rise of three
inches in each 12 inches of horizontal run and a building design that is
harmonious with the character of the neighborhood.
   (G)   No Quonset type buildings shall be permitted. No portion of any
accessory building shall be covered with unpainted or uncoated galvanized tin,
“strong barn,” imperial ribbed, corrugated sheets or panels or any other
similar-type material. For the safety of vehicular traffic, metal siding or
roofing must be painted or coated with an unobtrusive, non-reflective color.
§ 2-5.7 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Computation of area of individual signs. The area of a sign face shall
be computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle or
combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing,
representation, emblem or other display, together with any material or color
forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed, but not including any supporting framework, bracing or decorative fence
or wall when such fence or wall otherwise meets zoning regulations and is
clearly identical to the display itself.
   (B)   Computation of height of signs. The height of a sign shall be computed
as the distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the
highest attached component of the sign. In cases in which the normal grade
cannot reasonably be determined, sign height shall be computed on the
assumption that the elevation of the normal grade at the base of the sign is
equal to the elevation of the nearest point of the crown of a public street or
the grade of the land at the principal entrance to the principal structure on
the lot, parcel or tract of land, whichever is lower. When a sign is placed on
a berm, the height of the sign shall include the height of the berm above grade
level at the base of the berm.
   (C)   Permitted signage. Permitted signs and the maximum number of signs
allowed per lot and the maximum surface area and maximum height of each signage
type for the Mixed-Use Development District is outlined in the table below.
Signs meeting the definition of “abandoned sign” must be removed at the expense
of the owner.
Type of Signage P/NP/T Max. Surface Area  Maximum Height (ft.) Maximum Number
                       (sq. ft.)
Type of Signage    P/NP/T Max. Surface Area  Maximum Height  Maximum Number
                          (sq. ft.)          (ft.)
Animated           NP     -                  -               -
Announcement       P      15                 4               1
Architectural      P      150                35              11
canopy
Banner             P      32                 8               1
Changeable copy    NP     -                  -               -
Destination        P      16                 8               1
Electronic message NP     -                  -               -
board
Flashing           NP     -                  -               -
Freestanding       T      32                 4               1
Ground             P      100                10              -
Illuminated        NP     -                  -               -
Marquee            NP     -                  -               -
Nameplate          P      2                  -               1
Off-premises       NP     -                  -               -
(billboard)
On-premises        NP     -                  -               -
(billboard)
Pennant            P      32                 -               -
Pole               P      80                 25              1
Portable           T      32                 4               1
Projecting         P      12                 102             1
Roof               NP     -                  -               -
Roof-integrated    NP     -                  -               -
Subdivision        P      100                10              1
Suspended          P      20                 10              1
Temporary          P      50                 8               2
Wall               P      1,353              35              1
Window             P      1,353              15              1
Notes to Table:
P = Permitted NP = Not permitted T = Temporary
1. One canopy per window; canopy shall meet all minimum height requirements
for accessibility.
2. Projecting signs shall maintain 80 inches of clear space, as measured
from the bottom edge of the signs to the grade below.
3. Wall/window signs shall not exceed 10% of the total wall area.
 
   (D)   Signs, special conditions.
      (1)   Billboard signs. Billboards, signboards and other similar signs
shall be subject to the same height and location requirements as other
structures within the district and shall also be subject to the following
conditions and restrictions.
         (a)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising signs shall be
located at intersections so as to obstruct vision, hearing or interfere with
pedestrian or vehicular safety.
         (b)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising signs shall be
located within 50 feet of any lot in a residential district.
         (c)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising signs shall be so
constructed or located where it will unreasonably interfere with the use and
enjoyment of adjoining property.
      (2)   Hanging signs. Signs hung from canopies and awnings shall maintain
80 inches of clear space, as measured from the bottom edge of the sign to the
grade below.
      (3)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs may be for a continual period.
Said temporary signs shall not be in place for more than four days prior to the
event and shall be removed within 36 hours of the conclusion of said event.
      (4)   Signs on public property. Any sign installed or placed on public
property, except in conformance with the requirements of this section, shall be
forfeited to the public and subject to confiscation. In addition to other
remedies hereunder, the village shall have the right to recover from the owner
or person placing such a sign the full costs of removal and disposal of such
sign.
      (5)   Signs exempt from regulation. The following signs shall be exempt
from regulation under this chapter, except no sign in this provision shall
create an obstruction to vision and/or a collision hazard to the public:
         (a)   Any public notice or warning required by a valid and applicable
federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance;
         (b)   Any religious symbol;
         (c)   Construction signs on the construction site, visible from the
public right-of-way, is removed at or prior to the end of the construction
period;
         (d)   Any sign identifying a public facility or public/civic event;
         (e)   Any sign inside a building, not attached to a window or door,
that is not legible from a distance of more than three feet beyond the lot line
of the zone lot or parcel on which such sign is located;
         (f)   Holiday lights and decorations with no commercial message;
         (g)   Traffic control signs on private property, such as stop, yield
and similar signs, the face of which meets the “Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices” standards and which contain no commercial message of any sort;
and
         (h)   A political sign exhibited in a residential zone in conjunction
with the election of political candidates. Such signs may not exceed six square
feet in any zone. Only four political signs shall be allowed per zone lot at
any one time. All such political signs shall not be erected more than 30 days
before the election and shall be removed no later than ten days after the
election. Political signs shall not create an obstruction within the R.O.W.
**** ARTICLE 6: C-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT ****
§ 2-6.1 INTENT.
   The intent of this district is to provide a zone which will accommodate the
broad range of retail shopping activities and service and office uses that are
normally found in the core area of a village.
§ 2-6.2 PERMITTED USES.
   In District C-1, no building, structure, land or premises shall be used and
no building or structure shall be hereafter erected constructed, reconstructed
and moved, or altered, except for one or more of the following uses.
Amusement places (indoors), including video games, arcades, game machines, pool
halls and other similar establishments.
Animal hospitals, clinics and kennels, providing the establishment and runs are
completely enclosed in a building.
Antique shops and stores, providing all merchandise is displayed and sold
inside a building.
Apparel and accessory stores.
Apartments on floors other than the ground floor.
Art and art supply stores.
Artist studio.
Auditoriums and similar places of public assembly.
Automobile accessory and supply store.
Automobile parking lots and garages.
Bait shop.
Bakery and pastry shop (retail only).
Banks and other savings and lending institutions.
Barber shops, beauty shops, chiropody, massage or similar personal services.
Bicycle shops.
Books and stationary stores.
Bowling alleys.
Business and technical schools including schools for photography, dancing and
music.
Business machine repair, sales and services.
Car washes.
Child care center.
Cigar and tobacco stores.
Clothing and costume rental.
Commercial recreation centers.
Custom dressmaking, millinery, tailoring and similar trades.
Delicatessens and catering establishments.
Department stores.
Drug stores and prescription shops.
Dry goods and notion stores.
Dry cleaning and laundry establishments.
Fire stations, police stations and jails.
Fix-it shops (radio, television and small household appliances).
Florist and gift shop.
Furniture and home furnishing stores.
Government administrative buildings.
Grocery stores.
Hardware stores.
Hobby, stamp and coin shops.
Hotels and motels.
Household appliance stores.
Interior decorator’s shops.
Jewelry and metal craft stores and shops.
Leather goods and luggage stores.
Library and museum (public).
Lock and key shops.
Mail order catalog stores.
Meat locker or meat market.
Medical, dental and health clinics.
Medical and orthopedic appliance stores.
Meeting halls and auditoriums.
Messenger and telegraph service stations.
Music instrument sales and repair shop.
Newspaper offices.
Newsprint, job printing and printing supply stores.
Newsstand.
Offices and office buildings.
Office supply and office equipment stores.
Optician and optometrists.
Package liquor stores.
Paint and wallpaper stores.
Parking lots and garages.
Parks and open spaces.
Pawn shops.
Pet shops.
Photographic equipment sales and supply stores.
Photographic studios.
Picture framing studios.
Plumbing, heating, ventilation, air conditioning and electrical shops,
including related fabrication.
Post office.
Printers.
Private clubs and lodges.
Radio and television studios.
Restaurants, excluding drive-ins.
Service stations.
Self-services laundries and dry-cleaning establishments.
Sewing machine shops and stores.
Shoe stores.
Shoe repair shops.
Short-term lodging.
Sporting and athletic goods stores.
Stores and shops for the conduct of retail and service business similar to the
uses listed in this section.
Tailor shops.
Taverns.
Theaters.
Toy stores.
Travel bureaus.
Upholstery, furniture.
Utility company office.
Variety stores.
Watch repair shops.
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses.
 
§ 2-6.3 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses may be permitted subject to approved
procedures outlined in these regulations:
   (A)   Campground, RV park, camper pads and associated uses;
   (B)   Communication towers;
   (C)   Motor vehicle body shop, provided that all work shall be performed and
all materials shall be stored within an enclosed building; and provided further
that all operable or inoperable motor vehicles determined by the Building
Official to be a safety hazard or visual blight shall be screened from public
view and access by a solid or semi-solid fence having a minimum height of six
feet and a visual density of no less than 90%;
   (D)   Motor vehicle repair service, provided that all work shall be
performed and all materials shall be stored within an enclosed building; and
provided further that all operable or inoperable motor vehicles determined by
the building officials to be a safety hazard or visual blight shall be screened
from public view and access by a solid or semi-solid fence having a minimum
height of six feet and a visual density of no less than 90%;
   (E)   Restricted (adult entertainment) businesses; and
   (F)   Wholesale establishments, except those which handle products of a
highly explosive, combustible or volatile nature.
§ 2-6.4 SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
Regulator Uses Permitted
Regulator                                         Uses Permitted
Maximum height (feet)                             None
Minimum lot area (sq. ft.)                        5,800
Minimum lot width (feet)                          44
Minimum yards (feet)
Front yard                                        None
Rear yard                                         None
Rear yard adjacent to residential district        20
Side yard                                         None
Side yard adjacent to residential district        10
Street side yard                                  None
Street side yard adjacent to residential district 10
 
§ 2-6.5 USE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The following are not permitted in the C-1 Zoning District:
      (1)   Meteorological towers;
      (2)   Non-commercial wind energy systems; and
      (3)   Commercial wind energy systems.
   (B)   The main floor or first level of all buildings within the C-1 Zoning
District shall be used for commercial/office purposes. Floors above or below
the main floor may be used for other purposes such as residential or storage.
   (C)   No outdoor storage, except the display of merchandise for sale to the
public, shall be permitted.
   (D)   No business establishment shall offer or sell food or beverages where
consumption is primarily intended to occur in parked motor vehicles.
   (E)   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded so that no direct light is
cast upon any residential district and so that no glare is visible to any
traffic on any public street.
   (F)   All buildings and developments shall include a direct, clear and safe
pedestrian connection from adjacent public sidewalks to the entrances of
buildings within the development.
   (G)   (1)   A buffer yard consisting of a solid or semi-solid fence, hedge
or wall at least six feet, but not more than eight feet high, and having a
density of not less than 70% per square foot, shall be provided adjacent to an
adjoining residential district unless the adjacent residential district and the
commercial development are separated by a street right-of-way.
      (2)   Said fence or wall shall be maintained in good condition by the
owner or owners of the property.
§ 2-6.6 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Computation of area of individual signs. The area of a sign face shall
be computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle or
combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing,
representation, emblem or other display, together with any material or color
forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed, but not including any supporting framework, bracing or decorative fence
or wall when such fence or wall otherwise meets zoning regulations and is
clearly identical to the display itself.
   (B)   Computation of height of signs. The height of a sign shall be computed
as the distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the
highest attached component of the sign. In cases in which the normal grade
cannot reasonably be determined, sign height shall be computed on the
assumption that the elevation of the normal grade at the base of the sign is
equal to the elevation of the nearest point of the crown of a public street or
the grade of the land at the principal entrance to the principal structure on
the lot, parcel or tract of land, whichever is lower. When a sign is placed on
a berm, the height of the sign shall include the height of the berm above grade
level at the base of the berm.
   (C)   Permitted signage. Permitted signs and the maximum number of signs
allowed per lot and the maximum surface area and maximum height of each signage
type for the General Commercial District as outlined in the table below. Signs
meeting the definition of “abandoned sign” must be removed at the expense of
the owner.
Type of Signage P/NP/T Max. Surface Area  Maximum Height (ft.) Maximum Number
                       (sq. ft.)
Type of Signage    P/NP/T Max. Surface Area  Maximum Height  Maximum Number
                          (sq. ft.)          (ft.)
Animated           NP     -                  -               -
Announcement       P      32                 4               1
Architectural      P      250                45              11
canopy
Banner             NP     -                  -               -
Changeable copy    NP     -                  -               -
Destination        P      16                 8               1
Electronic message NP     -                  -               -
board
Flashing           NP     -                  -               -
Freestanding       T      32                 4               1
Ground             NP     -                  -               -
Illuminated        NP     -                  -               -
Marquee            NP     -                  -               -
Nameplate          P      2                  -               1
Off-premises       NP     -                  -               -
(billboard)
On-premises        NP     -                  -               -
(billboard)
Pennant            NP     -                  -               -
Pole               NP     -                  -               -
Portable           T      32                 4               1
Projecting         P      20                 102             1
Roof               NP     -                  -               -
Roof-integrated    NP     -                  -               -
Subdivision        P      100                10              1
Suspended          NP     -                  -               -
Temporary          P      (reference corresponding type of signage)
Wall               P      2003               45              1
Window             P      2003               15              1
Notes to Table:
P = Permitted NP = Not permitted T = Temporary
1. One canopy per window, canopy shall meet all minimum height requirements
for accessibility.
2. Projecting signs shall maintain 80 inches of clear space, as measured
from the bottom edge of the signs to the grade below.
3. Wall/window signs shall not exceed 10% of the total wall area.
 
   (D)   Signs, special conditions.
      (1)   Billboard signs. Billboards, signboards and other similar signs
shall be subject to the same height and location requirements as other
structures within the district and shall also be subject to the following
conditions and restrictions.
         (a)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising signs shall be
located at intersections so as to obstruct vision, hearing or interfere with
pedestrian or vehicular safety.
         (b)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising signs shall be
located within 50 feet of any lot in a residential district.
         (c)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising signs shall be so
constructed or located where it will unreasonably interfere with the use and
enjoyment of adjoining property.
      (2)   Hanging signs. Signs hung from canopies and awnings shall maintain
80 inches of clear space, as measured from the bottom edge of the sign to the
grade below.
      (3)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs may be for a continual period.
Said temporary signs shall not be in place for more than four days prior to the
event and shall be removed within 36 hours of the conclusion of said event.
      (4)   Signs on public property. Any sign installed or placed on public
property, except in conformance with the requirements of this section, shall be
forfeited to the public and subject to confiscation. In addition to other
remedies hereunder, the village shall have the right to recover from the owner
or person placing such a sign the full costs of removal and disposal of such
sign.
      (5)   Signs exempt from regulation. The following signs shall be exempt
from regulation under this chapter, except no sign in this provision shall
create an obstruction to vision and/or a collision hazard to the public:
         (a)   Any public notice or warning required by a valid and applicable
federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance;
         (b)   Any religious symbol;
         (c)   Construction signs on the construction site, visible from the
public right-of-way, is removed at or prior to the end of the construction
period;
         (d)   Any sign identifying a public facility or public/civic event;
         (e)   Any sign inside a building, not attached to a window or door,
that is not legible from a distance of more than three feet beyond the lot line
of the zone lot or parcel on which such sign is located;
         (f)   Holiday lights and decorations with no commercial message;
         (g)   Traffic control signs on private property, such as stop, yield
and similar signs, the face of which meets the “Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices” standards and which contain no commercial message of any sort;
and
         (h)   A political sign exhibited in a residential zone in conjunction
with the election of political candidates. Such signs may not exceed six square
feet in any zone. Only four political signs shall be allowed per zone lot at
any one time. All such political signs shall not be erected more than 30 days
before the election and shall be removed no later than ten days after the
election. Political signs shall not create an obstruction within the R.O.W.
**** ARTICLE 7: C-2 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT ****
§ 2-7.1 INTENT.
   The intent of this district is to provide commercial locations for uses
which serve as a convenience to the traveler or require a location on a highway
or arterial in order to have an efficient operation. It is further intended
that the uses be of a single purpose character and not be of a nature in which
people walk from store-to-store as in a nucleated center. Screening and off-
street parking are required in order to reduce possible adverse effects on
surrounding residential areas.
§ 2-7.2 PERMITTED USES.
   In District C-2, no building, structure, land or premises shall be used and
no building or structure shall be hereafter erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved or altered, except for one or more of the following uses.
Agricultural implement/irrigation sales and service.
Animal hospitals or clinics when all facilities are within an enclosed
building.
Automobile and truck sales and service.
Automotive parts and accessory stores.
Boat sales, service and rental.
Bowling alleys.
Butcher, custom kill.
Car washes.
Child care center.
Churches and places of worship.
Construction equipment rental and sales.
Cultural/convention centers.
Dry-cleaning and laundry establishments.
Fire stations.
Grocery stores.
Hotels and motels including accessory service uses, such as news stands,
messenger and telegraph stations, swimming pools (for motel guests only) and
flower and gift shops.
Indoor skating rinks.
Lumber and building materials sales yards.
Medical office.
Mini-warehouse.
Mobile home and trailer sales and rental, but not including the use of a mobile
home as a residence.
Mortuaries.
Motorcycle sales, service and rentals.
Museums.
Nursery and garden stores.
Offices, professional and medical.
Package liquor stores.
Private clubs and lodges.
Public utilities or other municipal needs.
Retail.
Restaurants, including drive-ins.
Self-service laundries and dry-cleaning establishments.
Service stations, auto-body shops or filling stations.
Short-term lodging.
Sporting goods stores.
Storage buildings for personal or rental unit use, used only specifically for
storage.
Taverns.
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses.
 
§ 2-7.3 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses may be permitted subject to approval
procedures outlined these regulations:
   (A)   Campground, RV park, camper pads and associated uses;
   (B)   Commercial recreation center;
   (C)   Communication towers;
   (D)   Electric and telephone substations, regulator stations and other
similar utility uses on or above the surface of the ground;
   (E)   Meteorological towers;
   (F)   Non-commercial wind energy systems;
   (G)   Restricted (adult entertainment) businesses; and
   (H)   Telephone exchanges, electric substations or other similar public
utilities. Outdoor amusement establishments such as amusement parks, permanent
carnival and kiddie parks, miniature golf and pitch and putt courses, driving
ranges and other similar establishments.
§ 2-7.4 SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
Regulator Uses Permitted
Regulator                                  Uses Permitted
Maximum building coverage                  60%
Maximum height (feet)                      45
Minimum lot area (sq. ft.)                 10,000
Minimum lot width (feet)                   100
Minimum yards (feet)
Front yard                                 25
Rear yard                                  20
Side yard                                  10
Side yard adjacent to residential district 25
Street side yard                           25
 
§ 2-7.5 USE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Commercial wind energy systems are not permitted in the C-2 Zoning
District.
   (B)   Gasoline pumps, air and water services and other fixtures used in
connection with automobile service stations may be located within the front
yard but not less than 12 feet from the front lot line and, in any event, not
less than 40 feet from the centerline of any street or road on which the
service station abuts.
   (C)   No structure shall be used for residential purposes except by the
owner or operator of the business located on the premises and except that
accommodations may be offered to transient public by motels and hotels.
   (D)   All buildings and developments shall include a direct, clear and safe
pedestrian connection from adjacent public sidewalks to the entrances of
buildings within the development.
   (E)   No outdoor storage shall be permitted except for the display of
merchandise for sale to the public.
   (F)   All business establishments shall be retail or service establishments
dealing directly with consumers.
   (G)   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid
casting direct light on any property located in a residential district.
   (H)   No meat packing plants shall be permitted.
   (I)   A buffer yard consisting of a solid or semi-solid fence, hedge or wall
at least six feet, but not more than eight feet high and having a density of
not less than 70% per square foot shall be provided adjacent to any adjoining
residential district unless the adjacent residential district and the
commercial development are separated by a street right-of-way. Said fence or
wall shall be maintained in good condition by the owner and owners of the
property.
§ 2-7.6 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Computation of area of individual signs. The area of a sign face shall
be computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle or
combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing,
representation, emblem or other display, together with any material or color
forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed, but not including any supporting framework, bracing or decorative fence
or wall when such fence or wall otherwise meets zoning regulations and is
clearly identical to the display itself.
   (B)   Computation of height of signs. The height of a sign shall be computed
as the distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the
highest attached component of the sign. In cases in which the normal grade
cannot reasonably be determined, sign height shall be computed on the
assumption that the elevation of the normal grade at the base of the sign is
equal to the elevation of the nearest point of the crown of a public street or
the grade of the land at the principal entrance to the principal structure on
the lot, parcel or tract of land, whichever is lower. When a sign is placed on
a berm, the height of the sign shall include the height of the berm above grade
level at the base of the berm.
   (C)   Permitted signage. Permitted signs and the maximum number of signs
allowed per lot and the maximum surface area and maximum height of each signage
type for the Highway Commercial District as are outlined in the table below.
Signs meeting the definition of “abandoned sign” must be removed at the expense
of the owner.
Type of Signage P/NP/T Max. Surface Area  Maximum Height (ft.) Maximum Number
                       (sq. ft.)
Type of Signage    P/NP/T Max. Surface Area  Maximum Height  Maximum Number
                          (sq. ft.)          (ft.)
Animated           P      200                45              1
Announcement       P      32                 4               1
Architectural      P      250                45              11
canopy
Banner             P      32                 8               3
Changeable copy    P      32                 10              2
Destination        P      16                 8               1
Electronic message P      100                20              1
board
Flashing           NP     -                  -               -
Freestanding       T      32                 4               1
Ground             P      322                10              1
Illuminated        P      (reference corresponding type of signage)
Marquee            P      350                45              1
Nameplate          P      2                  -               1
Off-premises       NP     -                  -               -
(billboard)
On-premises        P      320                30              1
(billboard)
Pennant            P      32                 -               -
Pole               P      1,003              40              1
Portable           P      16                 45              1
Projecting         P      32                 4               1
Roof               P      250                45              1
Roof-integrated    P      250                45              1
Subdivision        P      100                10              1
Suspended          P      20                 10              1
Temporary          P      (reference corresponding type of signage)
Wall               P      2,004              45              1
Window             P      2,004              15              1
Notes to Table:
P = Permitted NP = Not permitted T = Temporary
1. One canopy per window; canopy shall meet all minimum height requirements
for accessibility.
2. Ground signs may be increased from 32 square feet in area to 75 square
feet in area when all uses/storefronts within a development are included on
one sign for every use/storefront.
3. Pole signs may be increased from 100 square feet in area to 150 square
feet in area when all uses/storefronts within a development are included on
one sign for every use/storefront.
4. Wall/window signs shall not exceed 10% of the total wall area.
 
   (D)   Signs, special conditions.
      (1)   Billboard signs. Billboards, signboards and other similar signs
shall be subject to the same height and location requirements as other
structures within the district and shall also be subject to the following
conditions and restrictions.
         (a)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising signs shall be
located at intersections so as to obstruct vision, hearing or interfere with
pedestrian or vehicular safety.
         (b)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising signs shall be
located within 50 feet of any lot in a residential district.
         (c)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising signs shall be so
constructed or located where it will unreasonably interfere with the use and
enjoyment of adjoining property.
      (2)   Hanging signs. Signs hung from canopies and awnings shall maintain
80 inches of clear space, as measured from the bottom edge of the sign to the
grade below.
      (3)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs may be for a continual period.
Said temporary signs shall not be in place for more than four days prior to the
event and shall be removed within 36 hours of the conclusion of said event.
      (4)   Signs on public property. Any sign installed or placed on public
property, except in conformance with the requirements of this section, shall be
forfeited to the public and subject to confiscation. In addition to other
remedies hereunder, the village shall have the right to recover from the owner
or person placing such a sign the full costs of removal and disposal of such
sign.
      (5)   Signs exempt from regulation. The following signs shall be exempt
from regulation under this chapter, except no sign in this provision shall
create an obstruction to vision and/or a collision hazard to the public:
         (a)   Any public notice or warning required by a valid and applicable
federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance;
         (b)   Any religious symbol;
         (c)   Construction signs on the construction site, visible from the
public right-of-way, is removed at or prior to the end of the construction
period;
         (d)   Any sign identifying a public facility or public/civic event;
         (e)   Any sign inside a building, not attached to a window or door,
that is not legible from a distance of more than three feet beyond the lot line
of the zone lot or parcel on which such sign is located;
         (f)   Holiday lights and decorations with no commercial message;
         (g)   Traffic control signs on private property, such as stop, yield
and similar signs, the face of which meets the “Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices” standards and which contain no commercial message of any sort;
and
         (h)   A political sign exhibited in a residential zone in conjunction
with the election of political candidates. Such signs may not exceed six square
feet in any zone. Only four political signs shall be allowed per zone lot at
any one time. All such political signs shall not be erected more than 30 days
before the election and shall be removed no later than ten days after the
election. Political signs shall not create an obstruction within the R.O.W.
**** ARTICLE 8: AIRPORT ZONING REGULATIONS ****
§ 2-8.1 LOCATION, BOUNDARIES, ZONES AND HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   The vicinity of the County Airport, is located in the central part of the
county.
   (A)   Airport hazard area description. The airport hazard area consists of
any area of land or water upon which an airport hazard might be established if
not prevented and that such area may not extend in any direction in excess of
the limits provided for approach, operation, transition and turning zones.
   (B)   Airport hazard. For the purpose of this section, an AIRPORT HAZARD
means any structure or tree or use of land that affects any approach, operation
or turning zone.
   (C)   Zone description.
      (1)   (a)   The operation zones shall be located along each existing or
proposed runway, landing strip or other portion of the airfield used regularly,
or to be used regularly, for the landing or taking off of airplanes and shall
extend 200 feet beyond the ends of each existing or proposed runway.
         (b)   The operation zone is 1,000 feet wide, or 500 feet on either
side of the runway centerline for each instrument runway or landing strip. The
operation zone for all other runways and landing strips shall be 500 feet in
width and 250 feet on either side of centerline.
      (2)   (a)   The approach zones shall extend from the end of each
operation zone and is centered along the extended runway centerlines. The
approach zone extend ten miles from the operation zone, is 1,000 feet wide at
the end of the zone nearest the runway and expands uniformly, at a rate of 30
feet of width for each 100 feet of horizontal length, to the extent of 16,840
feet wide at the farthest end of the zone.
         (b)   The inner and outer areas of each approach zone shall be that
portion of the approach zone beginning at the end of the respective or proposed
operation zone and extending as far as three miles from the respective
operation zone. The inner area of the approach zone shall be the area extending
7,500 feet from the operation zone to reach the maximum height of 150 feet at
the one foot vertical and for every 50 feet horizontal 1:50 slope. The outer
area of the approach zone shall begin at the end of the inner area of the
approach zone and extend as far as three miles.
         (c)   The extended area of each approach zone shall be the area
between the outer limit of the outer area of the approach zone extending seven
miles from the outer area of the approach zone to create a total extension of
ten miles for the approach zone.
      (3)   The transition zone shall be a zone that extends outward, at a
right angle to the runway centerline. The transition zone shall extend seven
feet horizontally for every one foot vertically and shall end at a height of
150 feet above the highest elevation on the existing or proposed runway. The
transition zone begins at the height limit of the adjacent approach or
operation zone.
      (4)   The turning zones shall comprise all portions of the airport hazard
area not contained in the operation zones, approach zones or transition zones.
The outer limits of the turning zones shall be a series of points forming a
line which is the horizontal distance of three statute miles from the nearest
points along the airport property lines.
   (D)   Height restrictions. No building, transmission line, communication
line, pole, tree, smokestack, chimney, wires, tower or other structure or
appurtenance thereto of any kind or character shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, repaired or established, nor shall any tree or other object of
natural growth be allowed to grow:
      (1)   The operation zone height limit is the same as the height of the
runway centerline elevation on an existing or proposed runway, or the surface
of the ground, whichever is higher;
      (2)   The inner area approach zone height limit begins at the elevation
of the runway end for which it is the approach and rises one foot vertically
for every 50 feet horizontally (1:50 slope) to a maximum of 150 feet above the
nearest existing or proposed instrument runway end elevation;
      (3)   The outer area approach zone height limit is 150 feet above the
nearest existing or proposed instrument runway end elevation and remains at
that height limit until the three-mile horizontal distance;
      (4)   The extended area approach zone height limit begins at 150 feet at
the end of the outer area approach zone and continues to rise one foot
vertically for every 50 feet horizontally (1:50 slope) until the ten-mile
extent limit;
      (5)   The transition zone’s height limit rises one foot vertically for
every seven feet horizontally (1:7 slope). The height limit begins at the
height limit of the adjacent operation and approach zones and ends at a height
of 150 feet above the highest elevation on the existing or proposed runway; and
      (6)   The turning zone has a height limit of 150 feet above the height
elevation on the existing or proposed runway.
   (E)   Location sketch and zoning map. Boundaries, operation zones, approach
zones, transition zones and turning zones of said airport are as indicated on
the airport zoning map, which accompanies and is hereby made a part of these
regulations, a copy of which shall at all times be on file in the office of the
Village Clerk.
   (F)   Permit required, exceptions, application forms and permit fees.
      (1)   Permit required. It shall hereafter be unlawful to erect,
construct, reconstruct, repair or establish any building, transmission line,
communication line, pole, tower, smokestack, chimney, wires or other structure
or appurtenance thereto of any kind or character or to plant or replant any
tree or other object of natural growth, within the boundary of the zoned area
of said airport without first obtaining a permit from the Administrative
Agency.
      (2)   Exceptions. In the outer area of approach zones and within the
turning zones, no permit shall be required for any construction or planting
which is not higher than 75 feet above the elevation of the end of the nearest
runway or landing strip.
      (3)   Application forms. Application for a permit as required under these
regulations shall be made upon a form to be available in the Village Office,
and shall indicate the approximate location, ground elevation with reference to
the elevation at the end of the nearest runway or landing strip, and height of
the proposed structure or planting (mean sea level elevation).
   (G)   Nonconforming structures. Within the zoned area as herein before
defined, no nonconforming building, transmission line, communication line,
pole, tree, smoke-stack, chimney, wires, tower or other structure or
appurtenance thereto of any kind or character or object of natural growth shall
hereafter be replaced, substantially reconstructed, repaired, altered,
replanted or allowed to grow, as the case may be, to a height which constitutes
a greater hazard to air navigation than existed before these regulations were
adopted nor above the heights permitted by these regulations if such structures
or objects of natural growth have been torn down, destroyed, have deteriorated
or decayed to an extent of 30% or more of their original condition, or
abandoned for a period of 12 months or more. Transmission lines and
communication lines as referred to in these regulations shall be interpreted to
mean all poles, wires, guys and all other equipment necessary for the operation
and maintenance of same within the zone regulated.
   (H)   Marking of nonconforming structures. Whenever the Administrative
Agency shall determine, or shall be notified by the State Department of
Aeronautics, that a specific nonconforming structure or object exists and has
existed prior to the passage of these regulations and within the zoned area
herein described at such a height or in such a position as to constitute a
hazard to the safe operation of aircraft landing at or taking off from said
airport, the owner or owners and lessor or lessors of the premises on which
such structure or object is located shall be notified in writing by said
Administrative Agency and shall, within a reasonable time, permit the marking
thereof by suitable lights or other signals designated by the Administrative
Agency and based on the recommendations of the State Department of Aeronautics.
The cost of such marking shall not be assessed against the owner or lessor of
said premises.
   (I)   Administrative Agency. The Village Board of Trustees shall administer
and enforce these regulations, and shall be the Administrative Agency provided
for in Neb. RS 3-319, and shall have all the powers and perform all the duties
of the Administrative Agency as provided by the Airport Zoning Act, being Neb.
RS 3-301 et seq.
   (J)   Board of Adjustment. The Village Board of Adjustment shall be the
Board of Adjustment with respect to these regulations, to have and exercise the
powers conferred by Neb. RS 3-320, and such other powers and duties as are
conferred and imposed by law.
**** ARTICLE 9: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION AND FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS ****
§ 2-9.1 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt zoning regulations designed to protect the public
health, safety, general welfare and property of the people of the state. The
legislature, in Neb. RS 31-1001 through 31-1023 (as amended), has further
assigned the responsibility to adopt, administer and enforce floodplain
management regulations to the county, city or village with zoning jurisdiction
over the flood-prone area. Therefore, the village ordains as follows.
§ 2-9.2 FINDING OF FACTS.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the village are subject to inundation that results in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by
the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood
heights and velocities as well as the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses
vulnerable to floods or hazardous to others that are inadequately elevated or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
§ 2-9.3 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
2-9.2 by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
that service such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of
initial construction;
   (C)   Reduce financial burdens from flood damage borne by the community, its
governmental units, is residents and its businesses by preventing excessive and
unsafe development in areas subject to flooding; and
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance from the National Flood Insurance
Program.
§ 2-9.4 ADHERENCE TO REGULATIONS.
   The regulations of this chapter are in compliance with the National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations, as published in 44 C.F.R., and the state minimum
standards for floodplain management programs, as published in 455 NAC Chapter
1.
§ 2-9.5 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this article applies. This article shall apply to all
lands within the jurisdictions of the village identified on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM) panels 3102629999A and 3102620001B shown on the map dated
September 1, 1986, as Zone A and within the Zoning District FF established in §
2-9.6. In all areas covered by this article, no development shall be allowed
except upon the issuance of a floodplain development permit to develop, granted
by the Floodplain Administrator or the governing body under such safeguards and
restrictions as the Village Board or the designated representative may
reasonably impose for the promotion and maintenance of the general welfare,
health of the inhabitants of the community and where specifically noted in the
Floodplain Management Administration and Standards for Floodplain Development
regulations outlined later in this section.
   (B)   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries.
      (1)   The boundaries of the Floodplain Overlay Districts shall be
determined by scaling distances on the official zoning map of the effective
flood insurance rate map. Where interpretation is needed to the exact location
of the boundaries of the districts as shown on the official zoning map, the
Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. In such cases
where the interpretation is contested, the Board of Adjustment will resolve the
dispute.
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation for the point in question shall be
the governing factor in locating the district boundary on the land. The person
contesting the location of the district boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to present their case to the Board of Adjustment and to submit
their own technical evidence, if so desired.
   (C)   Compliance. Within identified floodplains areas of this community, no
development shall be located, extended, converted or structurally altered
without full compliance with the terms of this article and other applicable
regulations.
   (D)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This article does not intend to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existent easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this article imposes greater restrictions, the
provision of this article shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with
this article are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   (E)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this article shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall
be liberally construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a
limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
   (F)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this article is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur on rare occasions or the flood height may be increased by human-made or
natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings restricted by debris. This
article does not imply that areas outside the floodplain district boundaries or
land uses permitted within such districts will be free from flooding or flood
damage. This article shall not create liability on the part of the village or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that may result from
reliance on this article or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
   (G)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision or portion of this
article is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this article shall not be affected thereby.
§ 2-9.6 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The mapped floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this article are
hereby established as the Floodplain Overlay District (FP), as identified on
accompanying FIRM panels as previously established. The Floodplain Overlay
District shall correspond to Flood Zone A. Within this district, all uses not
meeting the standards of this article and those standards of the underlying
zoning district shall be prohibited.
§ 2-9.7 FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of Floodplain Administrator. The Village Zoning
Administrator is hereby designated as the community’s local Floodplain
Administrator, unless the Village Board designates a separate party to serve as
Floodplain Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized and
directed to administer, implement and enforce all provisions of this article.
If the local Floodplain Administrator position is unfilled, the community CEO
shall assume the duties and responsibilities herein.
   (B)   Permits required. A floodplain development permit shall be required
before any development, construction or substantial improvement is undertaken.
No person, firm, corporation, government agency or other entity shall initiate
any floodplain development without first obtaining a floodplain development
permit.
   (C)   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator. Duties of the Floodplain
Administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Review, approve or deny all applications for floodplain development
permits;
      (2)   Review all development permit applications to assure that sites are
reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of this article
have been satisfied;
      (3)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
government agencies from which prior approval is required;
      (4)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine
whether such proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Natural
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (6)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (7)   Verify, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new
or substantially improved structures in the floodplain;
      (8)   Verify, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which all new or substantially improved
structures have been floodproofed;
      (9)   Verify, record and maintain record of all improved or damaged
structures to ensure compliance with standards in applicable sections. Track
value of improvements and market value with permits. Also, ensure consistent
market value estimations to evaluate against damaged or improved values;
      (10)   Ensure comprehensive development plan as amended is consistent
with this article; and
      (11)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers work done that
does not comply with applicable laws or ordinances, the Floodplain
Administrator shall revoke the permit and work to correct any possible
violation in accordance with this article.
   (D)   Application for development permit and demonstration of compliance.
      (1)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall
first file an application in writing on a form furnished for that purpose.
Every such application shall:
         (a)   Identify and describe the proposed development and estimated
cost to be covered by the floodplain development permit;
         (b)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be
done by lot, block, tract and house and streets address, or similar description
that will readily identify and locate the proposed building or development;
         (c)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development
is intended;
         (d)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction; and
         (e)   Be signed by the permittee and authorized agent who may be
required to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
      (2)   If any proposed development is located entirely or partially within
a floodplain, applicants shall provide all information in sufficient detail and
clarity to enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
         (a)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage;
         (b)   All utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, water,
electrical and other systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
         (c)   Structures will be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement;
         (d)   Construction materials are flood-resistant;
         (e)   Appropriate practices to minimize flood damage have been
utilized; and
         (f)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, air conditioning, plumbing and
any other service facilities have been designed and located to prevent entry of
floodwaters.
      (3)   For all new and substantially improved structures, an elevation
certificate, based upon the finished construction, certifying the elevation of
the lowest floor, including basement, and other relevant building components
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and be completed by a
licensed surveyor, engineer or architect.
      (4)   When floodproofing is utilized for an applicable structure, a
floodproofing certificate shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and
be completed by a licensed professional engineer or architect.
      (5)   Any other such information as reasonably may be required by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be provided.
      (6)   Federal regulations in 44 C.F.R. §§ 65.5 and 65.6 allow for changes
to the special flood hazard area through a letter of map revisions (LOMR) or a
letter of map revisions based on fill (LOMR-F), provided the community
determines that the land and any existing or propose structures that would be
removed from the floodplain are reasonably safe from flooding. The community
acknowledgment form asserting this is required for a LOMR and LOMR-
F applications and must be signed by the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator shall not sign a community acknowledgment form unless
all criteria set forth in the following provisions are met.
         (a)   The applicant shall obtain a floodplain development permit
before applying for a LOMR or LOMR-F.
         (b)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the property and any
existing or proposed structures will be reasonably safe from flooding,
according to the minimum design standards in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01.
         (c)   All requirements listed in the simplified approached in FEMA
Technical Bulletin 10-01 shall be met and documents from a professional
engineering shall be provided. If all of these requirements are not met,
application must provide documentation in line with engineered approach
outlined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01.
   (E)   Flood data required.
      (1)   All Zone A areas on the FIRM are subject to inundation of the base
flood; however, the base flood elevations are not provided. Zone A areas shall
be subject to all development provisions of this article. If flood insurance
study data is not available, the community shall utilize any base flood
elevation or floodway data currently available from federal, state or other
sources, including from a study commissioned by the applicant pursuant to best
technical practices.
      (2)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within the floodplain unless the applicant has
demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial improvement, when
combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated developments or
substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any location as shown in the flood insurance
study or on base flood elevation determinations.
   (F)   Variances and appeals.
      (1)   Procedures.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment, as established by the village, shall
hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of
this article.
         (b)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this article.
         (c)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment
or any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in
Neb. RS 19-912.
         (d)   In evaluating such appeals and requests, the Board of Adjustment
shall consider technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this article and:
            1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
            2.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
            3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner, future
owners and neighboring properties;
            4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community;
            5.   The necessity of the facility to have a waterfront location,
where applicable;
            6.   The availability of alternative locations that are not subject
to flooding or erosion damage for the proposed use;
            7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
            8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and the floodplain management program for that area;
            9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
            10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
            11.   The costs of providing government services during and after
flood conditions, including emergency management services and maintenance and
repair of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, water
systems, streets and bridges.
      (2)   Conditions for variances.
         (a)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and
sufficient cause and also upon a determination that failure to grant the
variance would result in an exceptional hardship to the applicant.
         (b)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that
the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights.
         (c)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that
the granting of a variance will not result in additional threats to public
safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or
victimization of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         (d)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level; provided, that divisions (F)(2)(e) through (F)(2)
(i) below have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
         (e)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an
historic structure on the National Register of Historic Places and the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
         (f)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (g)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature
of a community that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below
the base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and also
that such construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to life
and property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this article.
         (h)   All requests for variances and associated actions and documents,
including justification for their issuance, shall be maintained by the
community.
   (G)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Violations. Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit or
the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
provisions of this article shall constitute a violation. A structure or other
development without a floodplain development permit, elevation certificate,
certification by a licensed professional engineer of compliance with these
regulations, or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation
until such time as documentation is provided.
      (2)   Notices. When the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized
community representative determines, based on reasonable grounds, that there
has been a violation of the provisions of this article, the Floodplain
Administrator shall give notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter
provided. Such notice shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Include an explanation of the alleged violation;
         (c)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any remedial act
required;
         (d)   Be served upon the property owner or their agent as the case may
require; and
         (e)   Contain an outline of remedial actions that, if taken, will
bring the development into compliance with the provisions of this article.
      (3)   Penalties.
         (a)   Violation of the provisions of this article or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person, firm, corporate or other entity that
violates this article or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $250 and, in addition, shall
pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense.
         (b)   The imposition of such fines or penalties for any violation or
noncompliance with this article shall not excuse the violation or noncompliance
or allow it to continue. All such violations or noncompliant actions shall be
remedied within an established and reasonable time.
         (c)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Village Board, or
other appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
§ 2-9.8 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Alteration or relocation of a watercourse.
         (a)   A watercourse or drainway shall not be altered or relocated in
any way that in the event of a base flood or more frequent flood will alter the
flood-carrying characteristics of the watercourse or drainway to the detriment
of upstream, downstream or adjacent locations.
         (b)   No alteration or relocation shall be made until all adjacent
communities that may be affected by such action and the State Department of
Natural Resources have been notified and all applicable permits obtained.
Evidence of such notification shall be submitted to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
      (2)   Encroachments.
         (a)   When proposing to permit any of the following encroachments, the
standards below shall apply:
            1.   Any development in Zone A without a designated floodway that
will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base flood elevation; or
            2.   Alteration or relocation of a stream.
         (b)   The applicant shall:
            1.   Apply to FEMA for conditional approval of such action via the
conditional letter of map revision process (as per 44 C.F.R. § 65.12) prior to
the permit for the encroachments; and
            2.   Supply the fully approved package to the Floodplain
Administrator, including any required notifications to potentially affected
property owners.
   (B)   Elevation and floodproofing requirements.
      (1)   Residential structures. In Zone A, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Nonresidential structures.
         (a)   In Zone A, all new construction and substantial improvements
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above one foot
above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, floodproofed so that below one foot above the base flood elevation:
            1.   The structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water; and
            2.   The structure has structural components with the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the standards of this division (B)(2) are satisfied. A floodproofing
certificate shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in
the Floodplain Management section found previously.
      (3)   Space below lowest floor.
         (a)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding
basements) and below the base flood elevation shall be used solely for the
parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of readily removable
items.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding
basements) and below the base flood elevation shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement
must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or
meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
            1.   A minimum or two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade; and
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices; provided, that they allow the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
      (4)   Appurtenant structures. Structures accessory to a principal
building may have the lowest floor below the base flood elevation provided that
the structure complies with the following requirements.
         (a)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation.
         (b)   The use of the structure must be limited to parking of vehicles
or storage of items readily removable in the event of a flood warning.
         (c)   The floor area shall not exceed 400 square feet.
         (d)   The structure shall have a low damage potential.
         (e)   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or other lateral movement.
         (f)   The structure shall be designed to automatically provide for the
entry and exit of floodwaters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified for a
professional engineer or licensed architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a net area of not less than
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade; and
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
         (g)   No utilities shall be installed in the structure, except
electrical fixtures, which must be elevated or floodproofed to one foot above
the base flood elevation.
         (h)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
         (i)   If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought
into full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use.
      (5)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within floodplains on sites:
            1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood.
         (b)   Be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home is at or above one foot above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in
accordance with the provisions of this section;
         (c)   Require that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
special flood hazard areas that are not subject to the provisions of division
(B)(3) above be elevated so that either:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above one
foot above the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of the
requirements of manufactured home anchor requirements outlined below.
         (d)   New manufactured home parks of five acres or 50 lots, whichever
is less, shall follow the standards of subdivision development within a
floodplain; and
         (e)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in accordance
with local building codes or FEMA guidelines. If over-the-top ties to ground
anchors are used, the following specific requirements (or their equivalent)
shall be met:
            1.   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of
the manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate
locations and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one
additional tie per side;
            2.   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the manufactured home
with five additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured
homes less than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side; and
            3.   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
      (6)   Existing structures.
         (a)   The provisions of this article do not require any changes or
improvements to be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an
improvement is made to a structure in the floodplain, a floodplain development
permit is required and the provisions below shall apply.
         (b)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure where the costs of which would equal or exceed
50% of the pre-improvement market value shall constitute a substantial
improvement and shall fully comply with the provisions of this article.
         (c)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure that will change the compliance requirements of
the building shall require applicable documentation, including an elevation
certificate, floodproofing certificate or no-rise certification.
   (C)   Design and construction standards.
      (1)   Anchoring. All buildings or structures shall be firmly anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   Building materials and utilities.
         (a)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with materials
and utility equipment resistant to flood damage. All buildings or structures
shall also be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood and
flood-related damages.
         (b)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
      (3)   Drainage. Within Zones AO and AH, adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes shall be required in order to guide floodwaters around and
away from proposed structures.
      (4)   Water supply and sanitary sewer systems.
         (a)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer systems
shall be located, designed and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damages to such systems and the infiltration of floodwaters into the systems.
         (b)   All new or replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate discharge from the system into floodwaters.
         (c)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and designed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (5)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical,
telephone and other utilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage to such utilities and facilities.
      (6)   Storage of materials.
         (a)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of
flooding buoyant, flammable, explosive or could be injurious to human, animal
or plant life is prohibited.
         (b)   The storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
      (7)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles to be placed on sites
within the floodplain shall:
         (a)   Be on-site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, which shall mean it
is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site by only quick-
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and no permanently attached
additions; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes of this article.
      (8)   Subdivisions. Subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, shall require
assurance that:
         (a)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage;
         (b)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize
or eliminate flood damage;
         (c)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
         (d)   Proposals for development (including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is less, where
base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses that determine base flood elevations and floodway
information. The analyses shall be prepared by a licensed professional engineer
in a format required by FEMA for conditional letters of map revision and a
letters of map revision.
§ 2-9.9 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A structure or use of a structure or premises that was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this article, but that is not in conformity with
the provisions of this article may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this article. The Utility
Department shall notify the Floodplain Administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of six months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this article. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary or safety code or regulations or the cost of
any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic
Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
§ 2-9.10 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The regulations, restrictions and boundaries set forth in this
article may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed or appealed to
reflect any and all changes in federal, state or local regulations; provided,
however, that no such action may be take until after a public hearing in
relation thereto, at which citizens and parties in interest shall have an
opportunity to be heard.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in
a newspaper of general circulation in the village. At least ten days shall
elapse between the date of this publication and the public hearing.
   (B)   A copy of such amendments will be provided to the State Department of
Natural Resources and the Federal Emergency Management Agency for review and
approval before being adopted.
§ 2-9.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURES. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, and use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure. Also, shall be known as ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation to which floodwaters are expected to
rise during the base flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion or alteration of buildings or other structures; the placement
of manufactured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling, grading
and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of equipment or
materials; or obstructions.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The area of the floodplain outside of the floodway that has a
1% chance of flood occurrence in any one year.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community on which the
flood insurance study has delineated the special flood hazard area boundaries
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the
flood insurance rate map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see definition of FLOODING). FLOODPLAIN includes flood fringe and
floodway. FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA are the same for the purpose
of this article.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, and
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, clogged bridge openings and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is: listed individually in the
National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the Department of
Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district
or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a
registered historic district; individually listed on a state inventory of
historic places in states with historic preservation programs which have been
approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or individually listed on a local
inventory of historic places in communities with historic preservation programs
that have been certified either: by an approved state program as determined by
the Secretary of the Interior; or directly by the Secretary of the Interior in
states without approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built or modified so as to render the structure in violation
of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this article.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation (including the alteration or relocation of a watercourse
or drainway), channel rectification, bridge, conduit, culvert, building. Stored
equipment or material, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill or other
analogous structure or matter which may impede, retard or change the direction
of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collection debris
carried by such water, or that is placed where the natural flow of the water
would carry such structure or matter downstream to the damage or detriment of
either life or property. Dams designed to store or divert water are not
OBSTRUCTIONS if permission from the construction thereof obtained from the
Department of Natural Resources pursuant to the Safety of Dams and Reservoirs
Act (see Neb. RS 46-1601 through 46-1670, as amended).
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district(s). The original zoning
district designation does not change.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved after the community’s initial flood insurance rate map dated April 2,
1976.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved on or before the community’s initial flood insurance rate map dated
April 2, 1976.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is: built on a single chassis; 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus a freeboard
factor as specified in this article.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the floodplain development permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. START OF CONSTRUCTION also includes substantial improvement,
and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or
other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START
means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of a building, whether or not the alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or re-division of a lot, tract or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land,
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before start of construction of the improvement. This includes
structures which have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual
repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either: any project for
improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local
health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or any alteration of a historic structure,
provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to an applicant from the requirements of this
article that allows construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
article where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in this article is presumed to be in
VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. Any depression two feet or more below the surrounding land that
serves to give direction to a current of water at least nine months of the year
and that has a bed and well-defined banks.
CHAPTER 3: SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS
**** ARTICLE 1: SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS ****
§ 3-1.1 HEIGHT USE REGULATIONS.
   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator head-houses, fire towers, grain
elevators, monuments, stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts, tanks, water
towers, ornamental towers and spires, church steeples, radio and television
towers, antennas or necessary mechanical appurtenances, usually required to be
placed above the roof level and not intended for human occupancy, are not
subject to the height limitations contained in the district regulations. In all
districts, two additional feet of height above the specified height limitation
shall be permitted for each one foot of additional front yard provided over the
minimum requirements.
§ 3-1.2 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yards. The front yards in residential districts only heretofore
established shall be adjusted in the following cases.
      (1)   Where a building is to be erected on a parcel of land that is
within 100 feet of existing buildings on both sides, the minimum front yard
shall be a line drawn between the closest front corners of adjacent buildings
on the two sides.
      (2)   Where a building is to be erected on a parcel of land that is
within 100 feet of an existing building on one side only, such building may be
erected as close to the street as the existing adjacent building.
   (B)   Yard exceptions. A deck, porch, patio or similar type use that is
attached to or adjacent to the principal use of the property may extend five
feet into the front yard, rear yard and/or street side yard. However, no
exceptions shall be allowed for the side yard.
§ 3-1.3 NUMBER OF STRUCTURES AND USES ON ZONING LOTS.
   Where a lot or tract is used for other than a residential dwelling, more
than one principal uses and structure may be located upon the lot or tract, but
only when the building or buildings conform to all requirements for the
district in which the lot or tract is located.
§ 3-1.4 SIGHT TRIANGLE.
   On a corner lot in all districts, except the C-1 General Commercial
District, development shall conform to the requirements of the sight triangle
as defined by this regulation.
§ 3-1.5 ACCESS TO COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   No land which is located in a residential district shall be used for a
driveway, walkway or access to any land which is located in any commercial or
industrial district.
§ 3-1.6 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home-based businesses and home occupations are permitted as an accessory use
in residential units, subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   Restrictions and limitations.
      (1)   No outdoor storage of materials or equipment used in the home
occupations shall be permitted.
      (2)   No alteration of the exterior of the principal residential building
or accessory building shall be made which changes the character thereof as a
residence. The home occupation shall be carried on entirely within the
principal or accessory structures.
      (3)   Signage for home occupations is allowed following the type and size
requirements outlined in the particular zoning district. The following
additional regulations shall apply to signage used for home occupations.
         (a)   No sign shall be maintained at any locations where by reason of
its position, size, shape or color, it may obstruct, impair, obscure, interfere
with the view of or be confused with any traffic or railroad control sign,
signal or device, or where it may interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
         (b)   Approval by the State Department of Roads on state application
forms must be submitted with application, if necessary for signs located on
property adjacent to the highway.
         (c)   The sign shall not interfere with the sight triangle for traffic
or interfere with traffic view and safety.
         (d)   Sign must be attractive and maintained by owner.
         (e)   If the home occupation no longer exists, the sign shall be
removed.
      (4)   No equipment shall be utilized that creates a nuisance due to noise
or electrical interference.
   (B)   Particular home occupations permitted. Customary home occupations
include, but are not limited to, the following list of occupations; provided,
however, that each listed occupation is subject to the requirements of this
chapter:
      (1)   Art, dancing and music schools, provided that instruction is
limited to five pupils at one time;
      (2)   Child care homes;
      (3)   Electronics repair;
      (4)   Fitness/personal trainer (one on one);
      (5)   Home crafts and hobbies such as model making, rug weaving, lapidary
work, cabinet making and the like;
      (6)   Home party products;
      (7)   Internet service, website design, website maintenance and other
related tasks;
      (8)   Locksmith;
      (9)   Massage therapy parlor (appointment only);
      (10)   Offices for realtors, insurance agents, brokers, sales
representatives and manufacturing representatives when no exchange of tangible
goods is made on the premises;
      (11)   Professional offices for architects, engineers, planners, lawyers,
accountants, bookkeepers and similar professions;
      (12)   Radio, television, phonograph, recorder and small appliance repair
service;
      (13)   Saw-filing;
      (14)   Tailoring, alterations and seamstresses; and
      (15)   Alternative home occupations, not prohibited below, may be
approved as a conditional use which requires the application be brought before
the Planning Commission and Village Board.
   (C)   Particular home occupations prohibited. Home occupations shall not, in
any event, include the following:
      (1)   Any use which by its flow of vehicular traffic creates an unsafe,
hazardous or congested traffic condition;
      (2)   Automobile, truck and vehicle repair services;
      (3)   Diesel repair, saw mill, small-engine repair;
      (4)   Equipment rental;
      (5)   Groceries, retail;
      (6)   Machine shops; and
      (7)   Restaurants.
§ 3-1.7 TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Street sales. The retail sale of merchandise not within an enclosed
structure for a period not to exceed three days. Street sales displays need not
comply with the yard and setback requirements of these regulations, provided
that no merchandise shall be displayed in the sight triangle.
   (B)   Christmas tree sales. Christmas tree sales in any business or
industrial district for a period not to exceed 60 days. Display of Christmas
trees need not comply with the yard and setback requirements of these
regulations, provided that no trees shall be displayed within the sight
triangle.
   (C)   Contractor’s office. Contractor’s offices (containing no sleeping or
cooking accommodations) accessory to a construction project and to continue
only during the duration of such project.
   (D)   Real estate offices. Real estate offices (containing no sleeping or
cooking accommodations unless located in a model dwelling unit) incidental to a
new housing development to continue only until the sale of lease of all
dwelling units in the development.
   (E)   Seasonal sales. Seasonal sale of farm produce is allowed as a
temporary use. Structures incidental to such sale need not comply with the
applicable front yard requirements if the structures are removed or moved back
of the required front yard setback line at the end of the season during which
they are used. All permanent structures must comply with the front yard
requirements.
   (F)   Carnivals and circuses. Carnivals and circuses must be approved by the
Village Board. Such use need not comply with the front yard requirements,
provided that structures or equipment which might block the view of operators
of motor vehicles on the public streets shall conform to the requirements of
the sight triangle as defined by these regulations.
   (G)   Garage or porch sales. The sale of used or second-hand merchandise
shall be permitted in any district, providing that such use shall not exceed
three consecutive days in duration nor shall it occur more than twice each year
at any particular location. A two-foot by three-foot sign shall be permitted
during the duration of the sale.
§ 3-1.8 OPEN STORAGE.
   The storage of salvage or scrap materials, inoperable motor vehicles,
household goods or furniture or business equipment or materials for more than
48 consecutive hours shall not be allowed in any residential district unless
such items are stored in a completely enclosed building.
§ 3-1.9 DETERMINATION OF BUILDING SETBACK LINE.
   The building setback line shall be determined by measuring the horizontal
distance between the property line and the existing or proposed main structure
nearest the property line.
§ 3-1.10 FENCES, HEDGES AND WALLS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise specifically provided in other codes and
regulations, the following regulations shall apply to the construction of
fences in residential districts within the corporate limits of the village.
      (1)   All fences must remain on the property and not extend beyond
property lines.
      (2)   It is recommended to have property surveyed by a licensed surveyor
to positively identify and mark property lines to avoid dispute. Property
owners are responsible to locate property pins prior to any permit being
issued. The village does not mediate disagreements between owners of private
property.
      (3)   The permit holder is responsible for calling Diggers Hotline of
Nebraska prior to start of construction. The permit holder is responsible for
scheduling all required inspections.
      (4)   No fence shall be constructed which will constitute a traffic
hazard.
      (5)   No fencing shall conflict with the requirements of the clear vision
area for streets and driveways. Fencing within a vision clearance shall not
create a visual obstruction.
      (6)   Installation of a fence may not obstruct any manhole or inlet cover
nor disturb or impede existing drainage pattern/swale or natural water flow.
      (7)   Any fence, hedge or wall shall provide access to utility workers
for meter reading and maintenance of the utility.
      (8)   No fence shall be constructed in such a manner or be of such design
as to be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals.
      (9)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence which will materially
damage the adjacent property by obstructing the view, shutting out the sunlight
or hindering ventilation or which fence shall adversely affect the public
health, safety and welfare.
      (10)   Every fence shall be maintained in a condition of reasonable
repair and not be allowed to become or remain in a condition of disrepair,
including noticeable leaning or missing sections, broken supports, non-uniform
height and growing or noxious vegetation. The village may order any
dilapidated, dangerous or nonconforming fence removed at the owner’s expense.
      (11)   A fence height shall be measured from the top of the fence to the
lowest point at the base of the fence.
      (12)   Fences in a front yard shall contain openings constituting a
minimum of 50% of the surface area and shall be situated or constructed in such
a way as not to obstruct the vehicular traffic or otherwise create a traffic
hazard.
      (13)   Fences shall not be closer than six inches to any property line.
Perennial plantings shall not be planted closer than two and one-half feet to
any property line. All setbacks for fences, hedges and walls must be adhered to
as per the zoning district’s regulations, if there are different regulations
outlined in said zoning district.
      (14)   The finished side of the fence must face to the outside of the
property. Visible supports and other structural components shall face in toward
the owner’s property.
      (15)   Fences shall be constructed of commonly accepted, material for
residential fences such as wood, plastic, vinyl, PVC/resin, concrete, stone,
masonry, wrought iron, aluminum, chain link or any other similar type fencing
material; shall be structurally sound; shall have a neat, professional and
finished appearance.
      (16)   Fences shall not be constructed of material not commonly used for
residential fences such as wooden pallets, chicken wire, corrugated metals,
strong barn or galvanized tin.
      (17)   The maximum height for fences, hedges and walls shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Corner lots.
            1.   Front yard. Forty-eight inches or four feet in height;
            2.   Street side yard. Forty-eight inches or four feet in height;
            3.   Non-street side yard. Seventy-two inches or six feet in height
from the rear property line to the front corner of the house, then 48 inches or
four feet in height; and
            4.   Rear yard. Seventy-two inches or six feet in height from the
rear property line to the front corner of the house, then 48 inches or four
feet in height on street side yard.
         (b)   Other lots.
            1.   Front yard. Forty-eight inches or four feet in height;
            2.   Side yard. Seventy-two inches or six feet in height from rear
property line to the front corner of the house, then 48 inches or four feet in
height; and
            3.   Rear yard. Seventy-two inches or six feet in height.
   (B)   These regulations apply only to new construction; any nonconforming
fences, unless dilapidated and/or dangerous shall not be affected. No fence
shall be erected, constructed or moved until a building permit has been
procured from the village. Application for a fence building permit shall
include a sketch of the lot, the location of any buildings on the lot, the
proposed fence and sufficient dimensions to accurately locate these features.
§ 3-1.11 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE STORAGE.
   Major recreational equipment such as boats, boat trailers, travel trailers,
pickup campers, coaches, charter busses, motor homes, camping buses or
converted trucks, tent trailers and other similar vehicles shall not be stored
in a residential district except in a rear yard. The storage of said
recreational vehicles shall no obstruct vehicular or pedestrian view.
   (A)   On a corner lot, such equipment shall be kept back of the front
setback lines on both street sides.
   (B)   No such recreational equipment shall be utilized for living, sleeping
or housekeeping purposes when parked on a residential lot or in any location
not approved for such use.
   (C)   In those cases where compliance with the above regulation is
impossible due to lack of access to a rear yard, the Village Board may, after
public hearing, issue a conditional use permit to allow certain specified
deviations.
§ 3-1.12 MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   All mobile/manufactured homes located within the corporate limits of
the village shall meet the following standards.
      (1)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area.
      (2)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width.
      (3)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and
one-half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run.
      (4)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction.
      (5)   The home shall have a non-reflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile or rock.
      (6)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights and
removable towing apparatus removed.
      (7)   Nothing in this article shall be deemed to supersede any valid
restrictive covenants of record.
      (8)   The home must meet building code requirements adopted by the
village.
      (9)   The home shall be set on a permanent masonry or concrete
foundation.
   (B)   Mobile/manufactured homes that do not meet the above requirements can
be located within a mobile home park designated by the village.
CHAPTER 4: CONDITIONAL USES AND REGULATIONS
**** ARTICLE 1: CONDITIONAL USE REGULATIONS ****
§ 4-1.1 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this article, CONDITIONAL USES are
those type of uses which, due to their nature, are dissimilar to the normal
uses permitted within a given zoning district or where the product, process,
mode of operation or nature of business may prove detrimental to the health,
safety, welfare or property values of the immediate neighborhood and its
environs. Within the various zoning districts, CONDITIONAL USES specifically
listed in the district regulation may be permitted only after additional
requirements are complied with as established within this section.
   (B)   Procedure. The consideration of a conditional use permit application
shall be handled in the same manner as a zoning amendment regarding the
requirements for public hearing, notices, protests and action by the Planning
Commission and governing body.
   (C)   Minimum requirements. A conditional use permit shall not be granted
unless specific written findings of fact directly based upon the particular
evidence presented support the following conclusions:
      (1)   The proposed conditional use complies with all applicable
provisions of these regulations, including intensity of use regulations, yard
regulations and use limitations;
      (2)   The proposed conditional use at the specified location will not
adversely affect the welfare or convenience of the public;
      (3)   The proposed conditional use will not cause substantial injury to
the value of other property in the neighborhood in which it is to be located;
      (4)   The location and size of the conditional use, the nature and
intensity of the operation involved in or conducted in connection with it, and
the location of the site with respect to streets giving access to it are such
that the conditional use will not dominate the immediate neighborhood so as to
prevent development and use of neighboring property in accordance with the
determining whether the conditional use will so dominate the immediate
neighborhood, consideration shall be given to:
         (a)   The location, nature and height of buildings, structures, walls
and fences on the site; and
         (b)   The nature and extent of landscaping and screening on the site.
      (5)   Off-street parking and loading areas will be provided in accordance
with the standards set forth in these regulations, and such areas will be
screened from adjoining residential uses and located so as to protect such
residential uses from any injurious effect;
      (6)   Adequate utility, drainage and other such necessary facilities have
been or will be provided; and
      (7)   Adequate access roads or entrance and exit drives will be provided
and shall be so designed to prevent traffic hazards and to minimize traffic
congestion in public streets and alleys.
   (D)   Additional requirements. In granting a conditional use, the Village
Board may impose such conditions, safeguards and restrictions upon the premises
benefited by the conditional use as may be necessary to reduce or minimize any
potential injurious effect of such conditional uses upon other property purpose
and intent of these regulations.
   (E)   Kennels, breeding and boarding. All kennels must comply with the
following minimum requirements for a conditional use permit.
      (1)   All kennels shall be located at least 1,320 feet from a residential
district.
      (2)   The maximum lot size is one acre.
      (3)   No kennel buildings or runs shall be located nearer than 75 feet to
any property line.
      (4)   The kennel shall be completely enclosed by fencing of sufficient
height to retain the dogs kept within said kennel. If necessary, fencing may be
required across the top of any such kennel in order to retain a dog within the
kennel. An enclosed ground area of 48 square feet per dog shall be provided.
   (F)   Auto wrecking yards, junk yards, salvage yards and scrap processing
yards. All auto wrecking yards, junk yards, salvage yards and scrap processing
yards must comply with the following minimum requirements for a conditional use
permit:
      (1)   Shall be located at least 1,320 feet from a residential district
zone;
      (2)   The operation shall be conducted wholly within a non-combustible
building or within an area completely enclosed by a fence or wall at least
eight feet high. The fence or wall shall be of uniform height, color and
texture, and shall be maintained by the proprietor as to ensure maximum safety
to the public, and preserve the general welfare of the neighborhood. No scrap,
junk or other salvaged materials may be piled so as to exceed the height of
this enclosing fence or wall; and
      (3)   No junk or salvaged material shall be loaded, unloaded or stored
either temporarily or permanently, outside the enclosing building, fence or
wall.
   (G)   Earth-sheltered residences. All earth-sheltered residences may be
constructed as a conditional use providing the following minimum requirements
are met.
      (1)   The living area shall be provided with exterior windows or sky
lights which have a glassed area of not less than 10% of the floor area and
give direct visual access to natural light and open space.
      (2)   Lot areas, lot widths and setbacks for underground dwellings shall
conform to those established by the zoning district.
      (3)   An outdoor space of no less than 500 square feet shall be provided
immediately outside one wall of the dwelling. The minimum width of the space
shall be 20 feet and the average grade elevation shall be no more than two feet
above or below the grade elevation of the floor of the dwelling.
      (4)   All earth-covered structures shall be designed by a structural
engineer, and plans shall be submitted signed and sealed by a licensed
structural engineer.
      (5)   A site plan, elevations, cross-sections and other necessary
drawings shall be submitted to ensure that the proposed structure is compatible
with the adjacent residents and the topography of the area. No site plan will
be approved that creates a storm drainage or runoff problem for an adjacent
property.
   (H)   Restricted (adult entertainment) businesses. All adult entertainment
businesses shall be subject to the following restrictions, and no person shall
cause or permit the establishment of any adult entertainment business contrary
to said restrictions.
      (1)   Proximity of similar use. No adult entertainment business shall be
allowed within 1,000 feet of another existing adult entertainment business.
      (2)   Proximity of other uses. No adult entertainment business shall be
located within 500 feet of any residentially-zoned district or 1,000 feet of a
pre-existing school, public park or place of worship.
      (3)   Provisions. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any adult
entertainment businesses in existence at the time the ordinance codified in
this chapter takes effect. All nonconformance shall come into compliance on or
before January 1, 2017, and no such nonconforming use shall be permitted to
expand in size or scope and the rights granted in this chapter shall terminate
upon cessation of business, sale or transfer of ownership of the adult
entertainment business.
      (4)   Measurement of distances. For the purpose of this chapter,
measurements shall be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or objects, from the main entrance of such adult entertainment
business to the point on the property line of such other business, school,
church, public park or areas zoned for residential use which is closest to said
main entrance of such adult entertainment business.
**** ARTICLE 2: OFF-STREET PARKING REGULATIONS ****
§ 4-2.1 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Off-street parking and loading space, as required in this article,
shall be provided for all new buildings and structures. Existing parking area
previously required shall not be used to satisfy required off-street parking
for any new structures or additions to existing buildings, structures or use of
land.
   (B)   Such existing parking space shall be maintained and shall not be
reduced so long as the main building, structure or use remains, unless an
equivalent number of such spaces are provided elsewhere as provided in this
article.
   (C)   Except that no off-street parking or loading space shall be required
for any use in the C-1 General Commercial District. Any off-street parking
facility constructed in the C-1 District after the effective date of this
chapter must comply with the design standards set forth in this section.
§ 4-2.2 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Utilization. Required accessory off-street parking facilities provided
for the uses hereinafter listed shall be solely for the parking of motor
vehicles in operating condition of patrons, residents, occupants or employees
of such use.
   (B)   Residential districts. Spaces shall be provided in other than the
front yard in all residential districts. Parking spaces for residential uses
may include a garage, carport or parking pad. At least one of the parking
spaces shall be behind the front or side yard building setback lines when two
spaces are required. Parking is allowed in the rear yard.
   (C)   Accessory use. Off-street parking shall be considered as an accessory
use to the use for which the parking is provided. Off-street parking shall be
located on the same lot or site as the use.
   (D)   Repair service. In the R-1, M-U and LLR Districts, motor vehicle
repair work or service of any kind shall not be permitted in association with
any unenclosed off-street parking facility.
   (E)   Computation. When determination of the number of off-street parking
spaces required by this regulation results in a requirement of a fractional
space, the fraction of one-half or less may be disregarded, and a fraction in
excess of one-half shall be counted as one parking space.
   (F)   Mixed uses. When a building or development contains mixed uses, the
off-street parking requirements shall be calculated for each individual use and
the total parking requirement shall be the sum of individual parking
requirements.
§ 4-2.3 LAYOUT AND DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Area. A required off-street parking space shall be at least eight
feet, six inches in width and at least 19 feet in length, exclusive of access
drives or aisles, ramps and columns.
   (B)   Access. Each required off-street parking space shall open directly
upon an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and
efficient means of vehicular access to such parking space.
   (C)   Design. Off-street parking spaces shall comply with the design
standard relating to curb length, stall depth, driveway width, island width,
barriers and ingress and egress as contained in the off-street parking
standards provided herein.
   (D)   Surfacing. All open off-street parking and loading areas, including
driveways and aisles, shall be graded and paved with asphalt, concrete or
asphalt concrete.
   (E)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking and
loading areas shall be directed away from residential properties in such a way
as not to interfere with the residential use.
   (F)   Landscaping. Unless otherwise noted, each off-street parking facility
of over 6,000 square feet shall comply with the following regulations.
      (1)   Each off-street parking facility shall provide a minimum five-foot
landscaped buffer along any street property line.
      (2)   Each parking facility that abuts a residential district shall
provide a ten-foot landscaped buffer along its common property line with the
residential district.
§ 4-2.4 PLANS AND APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   Plans showing the layout of all required off-street parking and loading
areas shall be submitted to and approved by the Zoning Administrator prior to
issuance of a building permit. Before approving any parking layout, the Zoning
Administrator shall satisfy himself or herself that the spaces provided are
usable and meet standard design criteria contained herein. All required off-
street parking spaces shall be clearly marked.
§ 4-2.5 MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General provisions. See table below.
Uses Parking Requirements Loading Requirements
Uses             Parking Requirements                          Loading
                                                               Requirements
Commercial/office uses, including, but not limited to:
Agricultural     1 space/500 square feet of gross floor area   1 space/
sales/service                                                  establishment
Auditoriums/     1 space/4 seats in main assembly area         None required
stadiums/arenas
Automotive       1 space/500 square feet of gross floor area   1 space/
rental/sales                                                   establishment
Automotive       4 spaces/repair stall                         None required
servicing
Boarding houses/
bed and          1 space/rental units                          None required
breakfasts
Body repair      5 spaces/repair stall                         None required
Bowling alleys   4 spaces/alley + 1 space per 2 employees      1 space/
                                                               establishment
Campground       1 space/camping unit                          None required
Child care       1 space/employee + 1 space or loading stall/  None required
centers          each 5 persons of licensed capacity
Churches/
synagogues/      1 space/4 seats in main worship area          None required
temples
Clubs, including
fraternal        1 space/500 square feet of gross floor area   None required
organizations
Commercial       1 space/2 persons of licensed capacity        1 space/
recreation                                                     establishment
Communication    1 space/500 square feet of gross floor area   1 space/
services                                                       establishment
Construction     1 space/500 square feet of gross floor area   1 space/
sales/service                                                  establishment
Dance hall/      1 space/100 square feet of floor area + 1     None required
skating rink     space/2 employees
Educational                                                    2 spaces/
uses, primary    2 spaces/classroom                            structure
facilities
Educational      8 spaces/classroom + 1 space/employee on      2 spaces/
uses, secondary  largest shift                                 structure
facilities
Equipment        1 space/500 square feet of gross floor area   1 Space/
rental/sales                                                   establishment
Food sales       1 space/200 square feet of gross floor area   2 spaces/
(general)                                                      establishment
Food sales       1 space/300 square feet of gross floor area   1 space/
(limited)                                                      establishment
Funeral homes/                                                 2 spaces/
mortuaries/      8 spaces/reposing room                        establishment
chapels
General retail                                                 1 space/
sales            1 space/200 square feet of gross floor area   establishment
establishments
Guidance         1 space/300 square feet of gross floor area   None required
services
Hospitals        1 space/2 licensed beds                       3 spaces/
                                                               structure
Hotels/motels    1 space/rental unit + 1 space/each 200 square 1 space/
                 feet of public meeting area                   establishment
Laundry services 1 space/200 square feet of gross floor area   None required
Libraries        1 space/400 square feet of gross floor area + 1 space/
                 1 space/2 employees                           structure
Medical clinics  5 spaces/staff doctor, dentist, chiropractor  None required
Offices/office   1 space/300 square feet of gross floor area + None required
buildings        1 space/2 employees
Restaurants      30% of licensed capacity                      2 spaces/
(general)                                                      establishment
Restaurants      Greater of the two:1 space/40 square feet of  1 space/
(with drive-     dining area, or 1 space/150 square feet of    establishment
thru)            gross floor area
Roadside stands  4 spaces/establishment                        None required
Service oriented 1 space/200 square feet of gross floor area   1 space/
establishments                                                 establishment
Theaters/
auditoriums/     1 space/4 persons of licensed capacity        1 space/
places of                                                      establishment
assembly
Veterinary       1 spaces/500 square feet/staff doctor         None required
establishments
Industrial uses, including, but not limited to:
Adult
entertainment    1 space/2 persons of licensed capacity        None required
establishments
General          0.75 times the maximum number of employees    2 spaces/
manufacturing    during the largest shift                      establishment
Wholesale/                                                     2 spaces/
distribution     1 space/2 employees on the largest shift      establishment
operations
Residential/housing uses, including, but not limited to:
Assisted-living  0.5 space/dwelling unit                       1 space/
facilities                                                     structure
Convalescent/    1 space/4 beds + 1/employee on the largest    2 space/
nursing home     shift                                         structure
services
Duplex           2 spaces per dwelling unit                    None required
Group care       1 space/4 persons of licensed capacity        2 space/
facility                                                       structure
Group home       1 space/4 persons of licensed capacity        2 space/
                                                               structure
Multi-family/    1 space/sleeping unit (spaces to be sited in
apartments       the general proximity of sleeping units’    None required
                 location)
Mobile home park 2/dwelling unit                               None required
Residential,
single-family    2 spaces/dwelling unit (1 may be enclosed or  None required
(attached or     semi-enclosed)
detached)
 
   (B)   Parking for people with disabilities. Each off-street parking facility
shall provide the number of parking spaces shown in the table below and shall
be designed and designated for use by people with disabilities. Every eighth
accessible parking space shall be van-accessible. Design criteria and
dimensions shall be in compliance with the standards of the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA), being 42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq. Parking facilities for
single-family, duplex, two-family and mobile home residential uses are exempt
from this requirement.
 
Number of Stalls Number of Required Number of Stalls Number of Required
                 Accessible Spaces                   Accessible Spaces
1-25             1                  201-300          7
26-50            2                  301-400          8
51-75            3                  401-500          9
76-100           4                  501-1,000        2% of total
101-150          5                  1,001 and over   20, plus 1 for each 100
151-200          6                                  stalls over 1,000
 
§ 4-2.6 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   At the time of construction, alteration or enlargement of any structure or
building except residences, churches and farms having an aggregate gross area
of 5,000 square feet or more, off-street loading areas shall be provided and
maintained for all uses as follows.
 
Number Loading Area    Gross Floor Area
One    500 square feet For every 5,000 to 20,000 square feet
One    500 square feet For every 20,000 square feet or fraction thereof
 
CHAPTER 5: RESERVED
CHAPTER 6: NONCONFORMITIES
**** ARTICLE 1: NONCONFORMITIES ****
§ 6-1.1 GENERAL.
   Nonconformities are of three types: nonconforming lots of record,
nonconforming structures and nonconforming uses. A definition of each type is
as follows.
   (A)   NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a recorded
subdivision or a parcel of land, the deed to which was recorded prior to these
regulations and said lot does not comply with the lot width or area
requirements of the district in which it is located.
   (B)   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure that existed prior to the
adoption of these regulations that does not comply with the lot coverage,
height or yard requirements which are applicable to structures in the zoning
district in which it is located.
   (C)   NONCONFORMING USE. A use of a structure or of land that lawfully
existed prior to the adoption of these regulations which does not comply with
the use regulations applicable in the zoning district in which it is located.
§ 6-1.2 NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   The Zoning Administrator may issue a building permit for any nonconforming
lot of record, provided that:
   (A)   Said lot is shown by a recorded plat or deed to have been owned
separately and individually from adjoining tracts of land at a time when the
creation of a lot of such size and width at such location would not have been
prohibited by the zoning regulations;
   (B)   Said lot has remained in separate and individual ownership from
adjoining tracts of land continuously during the entire time that the creation
of such lot has been prohibited by the zoning regulations;
   (C)   Said lot can meet all yard regulations for the district in which it is
located; and
   (D)   Said lot can meet minimum sanitation requirements by either connecting
to a sanitary sewer line or having adequate area to support a septic system.
§ 6-1.3 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Authority to continue. Any existing structure which does not comply
with the applicable intensity of use regulations, and/or the applicable yard
and height regulations, may be continued, as long as it remains otherwise
lawful.
   (B)   Enlargement, repair, alterations. Any nonconforming structure, may be
enlarged, maintained, repaired or remodeled; provided, however, that no such
enlargement, maintenance, repair or remodeling shall either create any
additional nonconformity or increase the degree of existing nonconformity of
all or any part of such structure. Notwithstanding the above, a porch which is
covered by a roof which extends into a front setback area may be enclosed but
not in excess of the area covered by the existing roof
   (C)   Damage or destruction. In the event that any nonconforming structure
is damaged or destroyed, by any means, to the extent of more than 60% of its
replacement value, such structure shall not be restored unless it shall
thereafter conform to the regulations for the zoning district in which it is
located. When a structure is damaged to the extent of 60% or less, no repairs
or restoration shall be made unless a building permit is obtained within six
months and restoration is actually begun within one year after the date of such
partial destruction and is diligently pursued to completion.
   (D)   Moving. No nonconforming structure shall be moved in whole or in part
for any distance whatever, to any other location on the same or any other lot
unless the entire structure shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the
zoning district in which it is located after being moved.
§ 6-1.4 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Authority to continue.
      (1)   Any lawfully existing use of part or all of a structure or any
lawfully existing use of all of a structure or any lawfully existing use of
land which existed prior to the adoption of these regulations and does not
comply with the use requirements of these regulations may be continued, so long
as otherwise lawful and so long as it is not specified to be terminated by
these regulations.
      (2)   The authority to continue a nonconforming use applies to the use
and its structure and passes with the title to subsequent owners.
   (B)   Ordinary repair and maintenance.
      (1)   Normal maintenance and incidental repair or replacement,
installation or relocation of nonbearing walls, nonbearing partitions,
fixtures, wiring or plumbing, may be performed on any structure that is devoted
in whole or in part to a nonconforming use.
      (2)   Nothing in these regulations shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of a structure in accordance
with an order of a public official who is charged with protecting the public
safety and who declares such a structure to be unsafe and orders its
restoration to a safe condition.
   (C)   Extension. A nonconforming use shall not be extended, expanded,
enlarged or increased either in land area or floor area.
   (D)   Enlargement. No structure that is devoted in whole or in part to a
nonconforming use shall be enlarged or added to in any manner unless the use
thereof shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in which it
is located.
   (E)   Damage or destruction. In the event that any structure that is devoted
in whole or in part to a nonconforming use is damaged or destroyed, by any
means, to the extent of more than 60% of its replacement value, such structure
shall not be restored unless such structure and the use thereof shall
thereafter conform to all regulations of the zoning district in which it is
located. When such damage or destruction is 60% or less, no repairs or
restoration shall be made unless a building permit is obtained and restoration
is actually begun within one year after the date of such partial destruction
and is diligently pursued to completion.
   (F)   Moving. No structure that is devoted in whole or in part to a
nonconforming use and nonconforming use of land shall be moved in whole or in
part for any distance whatever to any location on the same or any other lot,
unless the entire structure and the use thereof and the use of land shall
thereafter conform to all regulations of the zoning district in which it is
located after being so moved. Mobile homes may be replaced on an existing
utility hookup outside a mobile home park unless such hookup has not been used
for the previous 12 consecutive months.
   (G)   Change in use. If no external structural alterations are made which
will expand the area or change the dimensions of the existing structure any
nonconforming use of a structure or structure and premises may be changed or
another nonconforming use as a conditional use application, provided that the
Village Board, after receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission,
shall find that the proposed use is as appropriate or more appropriate to the
district than the existing nonconforming use. In permitting such change the
Village Board, after receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission,
may require conditions and safeguards to protect surrounding areas and
properties. Once such use has changed it may no longer be returned to the
original use or any other less appropriate use.
   (H)   Abandonment or discontinuance. When a nonconforming use is
discontinued or abandoned for a period of 12 consecutive months, such use shall
not thereafter be re-established or resumed, and any subsequent use or
occupancy of such land or buildings shall comply with the regulations of the
zoning district in which such land or buildings are located.
   (I)   Nonconforming accessory uses. No use which is accessory to a principal
nonconforming use shall continue after such principal use shall cease or
terminate unless said accessory use is permitted in the district.
   (J)   Nonconforming residential uses. Notwithstanding the provisions of
extension or enlargement regulations in this section, any structure which is
devoted to a residential use and which is located in a business or industrial
district may be remodeled, extended, expanded and enlarged; provided that after
any such remodeling, expansion or enlargement, such structure shall not be used
to accommodate a greater number of dwellings or lodging units than such
structure accommodated prior to any such work.
   (K)   Open storage in residential districts. No use prohibited by provisions
relating to open storage in these zoning regulations shall be continued in any
residential district for more than six months past the effective date of this
chapter.
CHAPTER 7: PLANNING COMMISSION
**** ARTICLE 1: PLANNING COMMISSION ****
§ 7-1.1 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of five members who shall represent
insofar as is possible professions or occupations that exist within the village
and who shall be appointed by the Chairperson, by and with the approval of
three-fourths vote of the Village Board. All members of the Planning Commission
shall serve without compensations and shall hold no other municipal office
(beyond one Planning Commission member serving on the Board of Adjustment). The
terms of each member shall be three years except the two members of the first
Commission appointed shall serve for the term of one year, two for a term of
two years and two for the term of three years. All members may, after a public
hearing before the Village Board, be removed by the Chairperson and by and with
the consent of a three-fourths vote to the Village Board. Reasons for removal
shall include, but not be limited to, inefficiency, neglect of duty,
malfeasance in office or other good and sufficient cause vacancies occurring
otherwise than through expiration of terms shall be filled for the unexpired
term by the Chairperson.
§ 7-1.2 CHAIRPERSON AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members
and create and fill such other offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold, at a minimum, at least one regular meeting during
each quarter during a 12-month period, or as needed. It shall adopt rules for
transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings and determinations which record shall be a public
record.
   (B)   The concurring vote of two-thirds of the members of the Planning
Commission is necessary to decide any questions upon which the Planning
Commission is required to pass a recommendation onto the Village Board.
§ 7-1.3 FUNDS.
   The Village Board may provide the funds, equipment and accommodations
necessary for the work of the Planning Commission but the expenditures of the
Commission exclusive of gifts shall be within the amounts appropriated for that
purpose by the Village Board; and no expenditures shall be valid in excess of
such amounts.
§ 7-1.4 MUNICIPAL PLANNING.
   (A)   It shall be the function and duty of the Planning Commission to make
and adopt plans for the physical development of the municipality, including any
areas outside the boundaries of the municipality which, in the Commission’s
judgment, bear relation to the planning of the municipality.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall from time to time recommend to the
appropriate public officials’ programs for public structures and improvements
and for the financing thereof. It shall be part of its duties to consult and
advise with public officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic
educational, professional and other organizations and with citizens with
relation to the protection of carrying out of the plan.
CHAPTER 8: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
**** ARTICLE 1: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT ****
§ 8-1.1 CREATION.
   Pursuant to Neb. RS 19-911, the Board of Trustees shall constitute the Board
of Adjustment for the village.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 8-1.2 MEETING AND VOTING.
   (A)   Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson, or in his or her absence the acting Chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall
be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall be a public record.
   (B)   Any resident or property owner in the village shall have the right to
appear before the Board in regard to which they have a reasonable interest in
the matter to be determined. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business.
   (C)   The concurring vote of two-thirds of the members of the Board is
necessary to decide any questions upon which the Board is required to pass. The
concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any
order, requirement or decision in favor of the applicant on any matter upon
which the Board is required to pass.
§ 8-1.3 DUTIES.
   The Board of Adjustment is hereby authorized to:
   (A)   Hear appeals where it is alleged that there is an error in any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the officer charged with the
administration of this chapter, in the enforcement of these regulations;
   (B)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any zoning
regulation, requests for interpretation of the zoning map; and
   (C)   To authorize, upon appeal, variances from the strict application of
these regulations where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or
shape of a specific piece of property at the time of enactment of the zoning
regulations; or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
such strict application would result in peculiar and exceptional practical
difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships upon the owner of such
property.
      (1)   Requirements for granting of a variance. No such variance should be
authorized by the Board unless it finds that:
         (a)   Strict application of the zoning regulations will produce undue
hardship;
         (b)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and in the same vicinity;
         (c)   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance;
         (d)   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit or caprice;
         (e)   The condition or situation of the property concerned is not of
so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably practicable a general
regulation to be adopted as an amendment to these zoning regulations; and
         (f)   The granting of the variance will not cause substantial
detriment to the public good and will not substantially impair the intent and
purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
      (2)   Findings by the Board. The Board of Adjustment shall make findings
that the requirements for granting a variance have been met by the applicant
for a variance. A written finding of fact should be accompanied by every
decision made by the Board specifying the reason of denying to accepting the
request.
      (3)   Conditions for granting of a variance.
         (a)   In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with these regulations.
Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of these
regulations.
         (b)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a
variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of these regulations in
the district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms of these regulations in said district.
         (c)   No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or
buildings in the same district, and no permitted or nonconforming use of lands,
structures or buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for the
issuance of a variance.
         (d)   The applicant shall submit a statement in writing, justifying
the variance requested; indicating specifically the enforcement provisions of
the zoning regulations from which the variance is requested, and outlining in
detail the manner in which it is believed that this application will meet each
of the six requirements for granting a variance as outlined in this article.
         (e)   The applicant shall submit a sketch, in duplicate, drawn to
scale and showing the lot or lots included in the application; the structures
existing thereon; and the structures contemplated necessitating the variance
requested. All appropriate dimensions and any other information which would be
helpful to the Board in consideration of the application should be included.
         (f)   The Board may require a performance bond to guarantee the
installation of improvements such as parking lot surfacing, landscaping and the
like. The amount of the bond shall be based on a general estimate of cost for
the improvements as determined by the Board and shall be enforceable by or
payable to the governing body in the sum equal to the cost of constructing the
required improvements.
         (g)   In lieu of the performance bond requirement, the Board may
specify a time limit for the completion of such required improvements, and, in
the event the improvements are not completed within the specified time, the
Board may declare the granting of the application null and void after
reconsideration.
§ 8-1.4 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Procedure. The procedure for requesting a hearing before the Board
shall be as follows.
      (1)   All applications to the Board shall be in writing on forms provided
by the Board and filed with the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of an
application and notice of the time, place and subject of each hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation at least ten days prior to the
date fixed for the public hearing.
      (3)   An application shall be accompanied by a filing fee determined by
the village. A separate filing fee determined by the village shall be required
for each request.
   (B)   Additional requirements. In addition to the above requirements,
certain applications require additional information, appeals and
interpretations, as follows.
      (1)   An application for an appeal or interpretation shall be filed
within 60 days after a ruling has been made by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   A copy of the order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Zoning Administrator which the applicant believes to be in error shall be
submitted.
      (3)   A clear and accurate, written description of the proposed use, work
or action in which the appeal or interpretation is involved and a statement
justifying the appellant’s position.
      (4)   Where necessary, a plot plan, drawn to scale, in duplicate showing
existing and proposed plans for the area in question shall be submitted.
§ 8-1.5 APPEALS FROM THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Any person or persons aggrieved by any decision of the Board of
Adjustment, or any officer, department or board of the village may present to
the District Court a petition setting forth that any decision of the Board of
Adjustment is illegal, in whole or in part, and specifying the grounds of the
illegality.
   (B)   Such petitions must be presented to the court within 15 days after the
filing of the decision in the office of the Village Clerk and shall follow the
provisions of state statutes.
CHAPTER 9: AMENDMENTS AND HEARINGS
**** ARTICLE 1: AMENDMENTS ****
§ 9-1.1 GENERAL PROVISION.
   (A)   Authority. The governing body of the village may, by ordinance, amend,
supplement, change, modify or repeal these regulations and the district
boundaries. No such amendment or change shall be adopted by the Village Board
until the Planning Commission has held a public hearing and submitted its
recommendations.
   (B)   Proposal of amendments. Amendments may be initiated by the governing
body, the Planning Commission or upon application by the owners of the property
affected. However, no person may apply for an amendment within a period of six
months following the denial by the Village Board of the same application.
   (C)   Application. When the owner of the property affected initiates an
amendment to the regulations or the district boundaries, an applicant for such
amendment shall be obtained from the Village Clerk. Said application shall be
completed in its entirety and filed with the Village Clerk so that a public
hearing date can be established.
   (D)   Ownership list. The application for an amendment shall be accompanied
by the ownership list obtained from an abstractor or county records listing the
legal description and the name and address of the owners of all property
located within 300 feet of the boundaries of the property for which the zoning
change is requested.
   (E)   Fees. For the purpose of wholly or partially defraying the costs of
the amendment proceedings, fees shall be paid upon the filing of each
application for a change of district boundaries or conditional use permit. Fees
shall be determined by the village.
   (F)   Disposition of amendment proposals. Upon receipt of a proposed
amendment from the Village Board or an application for an amendment from the
owner of the property affected, the Planning Commission shall hold a public
hearing on the proposed amendment, and forward its findings and recommendations
with respect to the proposed amendment to the Village Board.
§ 9-1.2 PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on each proposed
amendment that is referred to, filed with or initiated by it. The Planning
Commission shall select a reasonable hour and place for such public hearing,
and it shall hold such hearing within 60 days from the date on which the
proposed amendment is referred to, file with or initiated by it. An applicant
for an amendment may waive the requirement that such hearing be held within 60
days.
   (B)   Public notice of a hearing on a proposed amendment shall be published
once in a newspaper or general circulation and at least ten days shall elapse
between the date of the publication and the date set for such hearing. Such
notice shall state the date, time and place of the hearing and shall contain a
statement regarding the proposed change in regulations or restrictions, or the
zoning classification or zoning district boundaries of the property.
   (C)   If the proposed amendment would change the zoning classification of
any property, or the boundaries of any zoning district, such notice shall
contain the legal description and street address or general street location of
such property, its present zoning classification and the proposed
classification.
   (D)   When a proposed amendment will affect the zoning classification of
specific property, in addition to the publication of the notice described
above, the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on or near the
property on which action is pending. Such notice shall not be less than 18
inches in height and 24 inches in width with a white or yellow background and
black letters not less than one and one-half inches in height. Such posted
notice shall be so placed upon such premises that it is easily visible from the
street nearest the same and shall be so posted at least ten days prior to the
date of such hearing. It shall be unlawful for anyone to remove, mutilate,
destroy or change such posted notice prior to such hearing. Any person so doing
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. If the record title owners of any lots
included in such proposed change or within 300 feet thereof be nonresidents of
the municipality, then a written notice of such hearing shall be mailed by
certified mail to them addressed to their last known address at least ten days
prior to such hearing by the Secretary of the Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission shall also send such notice to the Board of Education. The Planning
Commission may give such additional notice to other persons as needed.
   (E)   (1)   The hearing shall be conducted and a record of the proceedings
shall be preserved in such a manner and according to such procedures as the
Planning Commission may from time to time prescribe by rule. Any interested
person or party may appear and be heard at the hearing in person, by agent or
by attorney.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may request a report on any proposed
amendment from any governmental official or agency, or any other person, firm
or corporation. If such a report is made, a copy thereof shall be made
available to the applicant and any other interested persons and shall be
available for review in the office of the Village Clerk at least three days
before the date set for public hearing. The Planning Commission may also
require such reports after such public hearing if additional information is
deemed necessary. Such reports shall again be available to the applicant and
any other interested persons.
§ 9-1.3 ACTION BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Recommendations. Upon the conclusion of the public hearing, the
Planning Commission shall prepare and adopt its recommendations and shall
submit the same, together with a record of the hearing thereon, to the Village
Board. Said recommendations may be for approval or disapproval, or approval for
less land area or a less intense zoning district, and reasons for
recommendation shall be included.
   (B)   Amendments to text. When a proposed amendment would result in a change
in the text of these regulations, but would not result in a change of zoning
classification of any specific property, the recommendation of the Planning
Commission shall contain a statement as to the nature and effect of such
proposed amendment.
§ 9-1.4 ACTION BY THE GOVERNING BODY.
   (A)   Adoption of amendments.
      (1)   The governing body shall consider the proposed amendment at a duly
advertised public hearing. Upon the receipt of the recommendation of the
Planning Commission and any protest petitions that have been submitted, the
governing body shall consider the application and may approve the
recommendations of the Planning Commission or take whatever action it deems
necessary.
      (2)   If a proposed amendment is not acted upon finally by the governing
body within 120 days after the recommendation of the Planning Commission is
submitted to it, such proposed amendment shall be deemed to have been defeated
and denied, unless the applicant for such amendment shall have consented to an
extension of such period of time. Whenever a proposed amendment is defeated,
either by vote of the governing body or by reason of the operation of this
section, such amendment shall not thereafter be passed without a further public
hearing and notice thereof as provided by this article.
   (B)   Notice of hearing.
      (1)   Public notice of the Village Board hearing on a proposed amendment
shall be published once in a newspaper of general circulation, and at least ten
days shall elapse between the date of the publication and the date set for such
hearing. Such notice shall state the date, time and place of the hearing and
shall contain a statement regarding the proposed change in regulations or
restrictions, or the zoning classification or zoning district boundaries of the
property.
      (2)   If the proposed amendment would change the zoning classification of
any property, or the boundaries of any zoning district, such notice shall
contain the legal description and street address or general street location of
such property, its present zoning classification and the proposed
classification.
      (3)   (a)   When a proposed amendment will affect the zoning
classification of specific property, in addition to the publication of the
notice described above, a notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on or
near the property on which action is pending. Such notice shall not be less
than 18 inches in height and 24 inches in width with a white or yellow
background and black letters not less than one and one-half inches in height.
Such posted notice shall be so placed upon the premises that it is easily
visible from the street nearest the same and shall be so posted at least ten
days prior to the date of such hearing.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to remove, mutilate, destroy or
change such posted notice prior to such hearing. Any person so doing shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. If the record title owners of any lots included
in such proposed change be nonresidents of the municipality, then a written
notice of such hearing shall be mailed by certified mail to them addressed to
their last known addresses at least ten days prior to such hearing by the
Village Clerk.
   (C)   Protest. If a written protest against a proposed amendment shall be
filed in the office of the Village Clerk within 14 days after the date of the
conclusion of the hearing on a proposed amendment by the Planning Commission,
which protest is duly signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% or more
either of the area of the lot or lots immediately adjacent on the sides and in
the rear thereof extending 300 feet therefrom, and of those directly opposite
thereto extending 300 feet from the street frontage of such opposite lots, then
such proposed amendment shall not be passed except by a three-fourths vote of
the Village Board.
   (D)   Approved action. If the Village Board approves a change, it shall
adopt an ordinance to that effect. If the official zoning map has been adopted
by reference, the amending ordinance shall define the change or boundary as
amended, and shall order the official zoning map to be changed to reflect such
amendment, and shall amend the section of the ordinance incorporating the same,
and shall reincorporate such map as amended.
CHAPTER 10: COMMUNICATION TOWER REGULATIONS
**** ARTICLE 1: COMMUNICATION TOWER REGULATIONS ****
§ 10-1.1 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   All towers must meet or exceed current standards and regulations of the FAA,
the FCC and any other agency of the federal government with the authority to
regulate towers and antennas.
§ 10-1.2 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   The placement of wireless communication antennas or towers must comply with
the following requirements.
   (A)   The antennas or tower will not interfere with the purpose for which
the property is intended.
   (B)   The antennas or tower will have no significant adverse impact on
surrounding private property.
   (C)   The user must obtain all necessary land use approvals and permits.
§ 10-1.3 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The placement of wireless telecommunication antennas or towers on
water tower sites will be allowed only when the following additional
requirements are met:
      (1)   The applicant’s access to the facility will not increase the risks
of contamination to the village’s water supply;
      (2)   There is sufficient room on the structure and/or on the grounds to
accommodate the applicant’s facility;
      (3)   The presence of the facility will not increase the water tower or
reservoir maintenance cost to the village; and
      (4)   The presence of the facility will not be harmful to the health of
workers maintaining the water tower or reservoir.
   (B)   In no case shall towers or antennas be allowed in designated prairie
or other conservation or wildlife area unless they are to be installed in
areas, which currently contain tower facilities or antennas, and in no case
shall towers or antennas be allowed in areas without road access to the base of
the tower, antenna support structure or facilities.
   (C)   Tower setbacks shall be measured from the property line of the parcel
on which it is located to the base of the tower. The setback shall not be less
than 110% of the tower height as measured from the ground level.
   (D)   Towers shall have a color generally matching the surroundings or
background that minimizes their visibility, unless a different color is
required by the FCC or FAA.
   (E)   No signals, lights or signs shall be permitted on towers unless
required by the FCC, the FAA or the village. No banners or similar devices or
materials may be attached to the towers, antenna support structures or
antennas.
   (F)   Ground level equipment, buildings and the tower base shall be screened
from public streets and residentially zoned properties and shall not encroach
in the building setback. Landscaping shall be required to screen as much of the
support structure as possible. The village may permit any combination of
existing vegetation, topography, walls, decorative fences or other features
instead of landscaping, if they achieve the same degree of screening as the
required landscaping. If the antenna is mounted on an existing building, and
other equipment is housed inside an existing structure, landscaping shall not
be required.
   (G)   In the event the use of any tower or antenna has been discontinued for
a period of 60 consecutive days, the tower or antenna shall be deemed to be
abandoned. Upon such abandonment, the operator of the tower or antenna shall
dismantle and remove the tower or antenna. If such tower or antenna is not
removed within said 60 days from the date of abandonment, the village may
remove such tower or antenna, in accordance with applicable law, at the
facility owner’s expense.
CHAPTER 11: WIND ENERGY SYSTEM REGULATIONS
**** ARTICLE 1: WIND ENERGY SYSTEM REGULATIONS ****
§ 11-1.1 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   All wind energy systems (WES) located within the jurisdiction of the village
shall conform to the following general standards.
   (A)   Clearance of rotor blades or airfoils for commercial/utility wind
energy systems must maintain a minimum of 20 feet of clearance between their
lowest point and the ground. Noncommercial WES shall have a minimum clearance
of 12 feet between their lowest point and the ground.
   (B)   On-site signage shall be limited to identification signs not to exceed
six feet and high voltage warning signs.
   (C)   All wind turbines part of a commercial/utility WES shall be installed
with a monopole tower.
   (D)   All commercial/utility WES shall obtain an FAA permit and comply with
all aviation warning requirements established by the FAA regulations and
permit.
   (E)   All commercial/utility WES shall be white, grey or other neutral non-
obtrusive, non-reflective color. Blades may be black in order to facilitate
deicing.
   (F)   All on-site communication and transmission feeder lines installed as
part of the commercial/ utility WES shall be underground.
   (G)   Commercial/utility WES shall not exceed 50 dba at the nearest occupied
dwelling.
   (H)   Commercial/utility WES shall obtain FCC permits where necessary and
provide evidence of permit approval.
   (I)   The commercial/utility WES, at the time of application for a permit,
shall identify all county roads to be used for construction and maintenance of
a WES. The applicant in coordination with the Village Street Commissioner shall
conduct a road condition survey and written report prior to construction. The
applicant shall be responsible for restoration of the road(s) and bridges to
preconstruction standards as established in the report. The applicant shall be
responsible for the cost of retaining outside engineering firm(s) to evaluate
road condition and cost for restoration if so determined by the Planning
Commission.
   (J)   The commercial/utility WES applicant shall be responsible for
immediate repair of damage to drainage or irrigation systems stemming from
construction, operation or maintenance of the WES.
   (K)   Solid and hazardous wastes, including, but not limited to, crates,
packaging materials, damaged or worn parts, as well as oils, lubricants and
solvents shall be removed from the site promptly and disposed of in accordance
with all applicable local, state and federal regulations.
   (L)   A commercial/utility WES shall provide a decommissioning plan to the
Village Board at the time application is made. The plan shall include the
method or means of removing the WES and accessory facilities, parties
responsible for removal and site cleanup, evidence of a damage insurance
liability policy, schedule for removal not to exceed 90 days from approval of
the plan. The applicant shall set aside three-fourths of 1% of each towers’
cost for future decommissioning upon approval of the application by the Village
Board. The funds are to be placed in a cash escrow account with a local bank.
   (M)   A conditional use permit for a commercial/utility WES shall be
considered null and void if the WES has not begun within one year following
issuance of the conditional use permit or produced energy for one year, unless
a plan is submitted to the Planning Commission outlining the steps and schedule
for returning the WES to service.
   (N)   (1)   A contractual agreement referred to as a developers agreement
between the Village Board and the commercial WES developer shall be created and
made part of the conditional use permit.
      (2)   The agreement shall detail road improvements, road reconstruction,
additional right-of-way needs, location of transmission lines, easements, bond
and payment requirements.
§ 11-1.2 NONCOMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Standards. All noncommercial wind energy systems located within the
jurisdiction of the village shall conform to the following standards.
      (1)   Noncommercial WES shall be systems installed to provide for full or
partial on-site consumption of utility supplied electricity.
      (2)   Where allowed, noncommercial WES shall be located in the rear yard
of any residential districts; further, all towers shall adhere to the setbacks
found in
Table 2 within this chapter.
      (3)   In all districts tower heights shall not exceed 30 feet. Any tower
exceeding 30 feet shall be required to submit an application for conditional
use permit. In agricultural districts, there is no height limitation except
that imposed by FAA regulations.
      (4)   Noncommercial WES shall not exceed 50 dba, as measured at the
closest neighboring inhabited dwelling unit. Temporary exceptions may include
severe wind storms or power outages requiring higher demand.
   (B)   Compliance with this chapter.
      (1)   All noncommercial WES will require a permit.
      (2)   Permit application will include an engineered drawing showing
compliance with nationally recognized building codes. The permit shall include
standard drawings of the tower structure, turbine structure, footings, guy wire
anchors and a professional engineers stamp.
      (3)   Evidence of notification to the servicing utility informing the
utility that the noncommercial WES will be connected to the utilities grid.
      (4)   Evidence that noncommercial WES, when located within 1,320 feet of
any waters of the United States, has complied with the requirements found in
Checklist 1 below.
§ 11-1.3 METEOROLOGICAL TOWERS.
   All meteorological towers located within the jurisdiction of the village
shall conform to the following standards.
   (A)   Meteorological towers shall be towers which are erected primarily to
measure wind speed, direction and record other data relevant to the site of a
commercial WES.
   (B)   Meteorological towers shall be sited according to
Table 1 within this chapter.
   (C)   Meteorological towers shall be a conditional use and follow the same
process as outlined in this chapter.
   (D)   Meteorological towers, permanent or temporary, in excess of 200 feet
in height, shall meet all FAA requirements and shall be required to apply for a
permit prior to construction. Meteorological towers less than 200 feet in
height shall have the guy wires clearly marked with devices common to overhead
transmission lines and shall be required to apply for a permit prior to
construction.
   (E)   All meteorological towers shall adhere to the setbacks established in
Table 2 within this chapter.
§ 11-1.4 COMMERCIAL/UTILITY WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   All commercial/utility wind energy systems (WES) located within the
jurisdiction of the village shall conform to the following standards:
   (A)   Commercial/utility WES shall be permitted as conditional uses within
the districts as seen in
Table 1 within this chapter.
   (B)   The request for a conditional use permit shall include the following:
      (1)   Name(s) of project applicant;
      (2)   Name(s) of project owner;
      (3)   Legal description of the project;
      (4)   Documentation of land ownership or lease of the property;
      (5)   Site plan showing property lines, setbacks, proposed accessory
buildings, wind turbine locations, transmission lines, adjacent subdivisions,
homes or other structures, county and service roads, legend and scale,
signature of surveyor or engineer;
      (6)   Narrative description of the project, including number, type,
generating capacity, tower height, rotor diameter, total height of all wind
turbines, including meteorological towers, height of transmission lines and
capacity, lastly proposed users of project;
      (7)   Overview map of the area showing topography, location of WES owned
or not owned by the applicant, public or private airfields within one mile of
the proposed WES and other communication towers;
      (8)   An acoustical report that certifies the WES will meet the noise
requirements of this chapter;
      (9)   Evidence that other tower owners or lessees have been notified of
the proposed WES and there will not be interference in communications;
      (10)   An environmental assessment worksheet shall be prepared by a
qualified environmental engineering firm when a commercial WES is located
within avian migratory routes. The environmental assessment worksheet shall
contain an avian assessment, map of the migratory routes and recommended
mitigation practices;
      (11)   A decommissioning plan as required by this chapter;
      (12)   Meteorological and commercial/utility towers located within one
mile of any waters of the United States shall submit an environmental
assessment worksheet from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Further, a
conditional use permit shall not be issued until the applicant has completed
Checklist 2 below; and
      (13)   There shall be a flicker/strobe effect study provided.
   (C)   (1)   Aggregated projects may be jointly submitted as a single
application and reviewed as a single application, including public notices,
public hearing and subsequent approvals or denials.
      (2)   Permits may be issued and recorded separately.
      (3)   Aggregated projects proposed shall be considered conditional uses
and follow the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Joint projects will be assessed as one project.
   (E)   All commercial/utility towers shall adhere to the setbacks found in
Table 2 within this chapter.
 
Checklist 1 - Small Wind Energy Systems
U.S. Fish and Wildlife
State Game and Parks Commission
State Historical Society
Village Utilities
 
Checklist 2 - Commercial Wind Energy Systems
Checklist 2 - Commercial Wind Energy Systems
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
State Department of Aeronautics/Federal Aviation Agency (FAA)
State Game and Parks Commission
State Historical Society
State Department of Natural Resources
State Department of Roads
Village Utilities
 
Table 1
Zoning District Communication Meteorological Non-Commercial WES Commercial WES
                Tower         Tower
Table 1
Zoning District Communication   Meteorological  Non-Commercial  Commercial WES
                Tower           Tower           WES
Agriculture     Conditional use Conditional use Conditional use Conditional use
District (A-1)
General
Commercial      Conditional use Not permitted   Not permitted   Not permitted
District (C-1)
Highway
Commercial      Conditional use Conditional use Conditional use Not permitted
District (C-2)
Large Lot
Residential     Conditional use Conditional use Conditional use Not permitted
(LLR)
Mixed-Use
Development     Conditional use Conditional use Conditional use Not permitted
District (M-U)
Single-Family
Residential     Not permitted   Not permitted   Not permitted   Not permitted
District (R-1)
Transitional
Agriculture     Conditional use Conditional use Conditional use Not permitted
(TA)
 
Table 2
Governing Entities Meteorological Tower Non-Commercial WES Commercial/Utility
                                                           WES
Table 2
Governing  Meteorological Non-
Entities   Tower          Commercial  Commercial/Utility WES
                          WES
All road   1.1 x tower    1.1 x tower One-half blade diameter or 150’; whichever is
rights-of- height         height      greater
way*
Irrigation 1.1 x tower    1.1 x tower One-half blade diameter or 150’; whichever is
canals     height         height      greater
Other
public or  1.1 x tower    1.1 x tower One-half blade diameter or 150’; whichever is
private    height         height      greater
utility
easements
Property   1.1 x tower    1.1 x total One-half blade diameter or 150’; whichever is
lines      height         height      greater
Public and Per FAA        Per FAA
private    regulations    regulations Per FAA regulations
airfields
Notes to Table:
The setback for dwelling units shall be reciprocal in that no dwelling unit shall be
constructed within the same distance required for a common wind energy system.
* The setback shall be measured from any future rights-of-way if a planned change or
expanded right-of-way is known.
 
CHAPTER 12: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
**** ARTICLE 1: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ****
§ 12-1.1 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of these regulations is to provide for the orderly
development of the village and its environs; to proscribe standards for the
laying out of subdivisions in harmony with the comprehensive plan; for the
coordination of streets and utilities within subdivisions with other existing
or planned streets and utilities; for coordination of subdivisions with other
features of the comprehensive plan to provide for adequate open space for
traffic, recreation, light and air; and for the distribution of population and
traffic in such a manner so as to create conditions favorable to health,
safety, convenience or prosperity, all in accordance with applicable state
statutes.
   (B)   The purpose of these regulations is to provide standards and
specifications with respect to provisions for the proper location and width of
streets, building lines, open spaces, safety, recreation; and, for the manner
in which streets will be graded and improved; and, the extent to which water,
sewer and other utility services shall be provided; and, to provide for the
approval of preliminary plats and final plats and endorsement thereof by the
Village Planning Commission and by the Chairperson and Village Board. No final
plat of a subdivision shall be approved and accepted by the Village Board
unless it conforms to the provisions of these regulations.
§ 12-1.2 APPLICABILITY.
   Any plat, hereafter made, for each subdivision or part thereof lying within
the jurisdiction of this chapter, shall be prepared for approval and recorded
as herein prescribed. The regulations contained herein shall apply to the
subdivision of a lot, tract, parcel of land into two or more lots, tracts or
other division of land for the purpose of sale or development, whether
immediate or future, including the re-subdivision or re-platting of land or
lots, except that the division of land when the smallest parcel created is more
than ten acres in area shall be exempt from these regulations. Further, the
regulations set forth by this chapter shall be minimum regulations which shall
apply uniformly throughout the jurisdiction of this chapter except as hereafter
provided.
   (A)   Each separate principal use/building within the jurisdiction of this
chapter shall be situated on a separate and single subdivided lot of record
unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   No subdivision of land shall be permitted within the jurisdiction of
this chapter unless a plat is approved in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. Further, no lot in a subdivision may be sold, transferred or
negotiated to sell, no permit to erect, alter or repair any building upon land
in a subdivision may be issued, and no building may be erected in a subdivision
unless a final plat has been approved by the Village Board and recorded with
the County Register of Deeds.
   (C)   These regulations shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   To a subdivision of land whereby the smallest parcel created or
remaining is more than ten acres;
      (2)   The subdivision of burial lots in cemeteries; and
      (3)   A change in the boundary between adjoining lands which does not
create an additional lot or does not result in a nonconformity of an existing
lot.
§ 12-1.3 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Pre-application meeting. Prior to the subdivision of any land, the
subdivider or subdivider’s agent shall prepare a sketch plan and shall discuss
informally with the Zoning Administrator the property proposed for subdivision,
with reference to these subdivision regulations and procedures, zoning
regulations and controls and the village’s comprehensive and major street
plans.
   (B)   Plat submission requirements. The subdivider shall submit to the
Village Clerk five copies of the preliminary plat and supplemental material
specified, with written application for conditional approval, at least ten days
prior to the regular meeting of the Village Planning Commission at which the
request will be heard.
   (C)   Fees. Fees structures are determined by the village.
   (D)   Scale and preliminary plat contents. Preliminary plats shall be a
scale of one inch to 100 feet, and shall be prepared with the following
information:
      (1)   Name, location, acreage, owner and designer of subdivision with
legal description as shown by land records;
      (2)   Present and proposed zoning;
      (3)   Date, north point and graphic scale;
      (4)   Location of property lines, roads, existing utilities with size of
lines and other underground installations and easement;
      (5)   Names of adjoining properties or subdivisions;
      (6)   Proposed utility system, including water, sewer and paving;
      (7)   Dimensions and lot lines;
      (8)   Location of proposed drainage;
      (9)   Contours at two feet minimum intervals at one inch equals 100 feet
scale;
      (10)   Proposed improvements and grading concepts;
      (11)   Location of existing buildings; and
      (12)   Proposed easements, dedications and reservations of land required.
   (E)   Notification of improvement schedule. Subdivider shall indicate by a
letter when improvements as required will be provided.
   (F)   Notification of County Planning Commission. The village shall notify
the County Planning Commission of any proposed subdivision plat and provide the
Commission with all available materials on the proposed plat, when such
proposed plat lies partially or totally within the extraterritorial subdivision
jurisdiction being exercised by that municipality in such county. The
Commission shall be given four weeks to officially comment on the
appropriateness of the design and improvements proposed in the plat. The review
period shall run concurrently with subdivision review activities of the village
after the Commission receives all available material for a proposed subdivision
plat.
   (G)   Notification of School Board. At least ten days prior to the Village
Planning Commission meeting at which the preliminary plat is to be considered
for approval, the Planning Commission shall submit a copy of the proposal to
the School Board of each School District which the proposed development
affects, and shall notify the School Board of the meeting date. Copies of the
plat may be submitted to any other agency which may be affected.
   (H)   Approval or rejection. After review of the preliminary plat and
negotiations with the subdivider, the Village Planning Commission shall reject
or conditionally approve the preliminary plat, within 30 days after the
official meeting at which the plat was considered.
   (I)   Approval is conditional. Approval of a preliminary plat shall not
constitute approval of the final plat; it shall be deemed an expression of
approval or conditional approval of the submitted plat, as a guide for the
preparation of the final plat, which will be subject to further consideration
by the Village Planning Commission and the Village Board. Any conditional
approval of the preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of one year
unless an extension is granted by the Planning Commission.
   (J)   Public works plan. Upon approval of the preliminary plat by the
Village Planning Commission and Village Board, the approved preliminary plat
will be forwarded to Village Engineer for preparation of a public works plan.
Said public works plan will outline the improvement needs, in conjunction with
the village’s present utility, drainage and street system and tentative costs.
   (K)   Final plat submission requirements. Final plats, showing entire
concept, shall be submitted to the Village Clerk within one year of approval of
the preliminary plat, unless an extension is granted by the Planning
Commission. The final plat shall conform to the preliminary plat as approved
and to the requirements of all applicable ordinances and state statutes; and,
if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that portion of the
approved preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop
at the time; provided, however, that such portion conforms to all requirements
of these regulations.
   (L)   Scale and final plat contents. One original Mylar and five copies of
the final plat and other exhibits required for approval shall be submitted. The
final plat shall be drawn in ink on Mylar and shall be at a scale of one inch
to 100 feet or larger. The final plat shall show the following:
      (1)   Date, title, name and location of subdivision;
      (2)   Streets and street names, lots, setback lines, lot numbers and the
like;
      (3)   Graphic scale and north arrow;
      (4)   Monuments (ferrous), one-half inch diameter, minimum 24-inch
minimum length;
      (5)   Dimensions, angles and bearings and complete legal description of
the property;
      (6)   Sufficient survey data to reproduce any line on the ground;
      (7)   Names of adjoining subdivisions;
      (8)   Location and dimensions of any easements;
      (9)   Purpose for which sites are dedicated or reserved, and the transfer
of ownership of the same;
      (10)   Certification by surveyor as to accuracy of survey and plat;
      (11)   Certification signed and acknowledged by all parties holding title
or having any title interest in the land subdivided and consenting to the
preparation and recording of the plat as submitted;
      (12)   Certification recording the approval by the Planning Commission;
and
      (13)   Certification recording the approval by the Village Board and the
acceptance of any dedications.
   (M)   Supplementary data required. The final plat shall be accompanied by a
public works plan of all required public improvements, approved by an Engineer.
   (N)   Professional assistance. The Village Board or the Planning Commission
may request such professional assistance as it deems necessary to properly
evaluate the plats submitted.
   (O)   Planning Commission recommendations. The Planning Commission shall
reject or approve the final plat and have prepared a recommendation to the
Village Board recommending rejection or approval. All reasons for recommending
rejection shall be clearly stated. Notification of approval or rejection by the
Planning Commission or Village Board shall be given the subdivider within 60
days after submission of the final plat to the Planning Commission.
   (P)   Administrative subdivision. In the event that a proposed subdivision
does not involve the platting and dedication of streets, extension of utility
systems, change in subdivision class and type, change in zoning district,
change in surface drainage, and will not result in the creation of more than
three lots of record, the subdivider may apply for administrative subdivision
under the provisions of this section. The utilization of the administrative
subdivision does not relieve the subdivider of its obligation to comply with
the regulations relating to the streets, alleys, sidewalks and driveways and
utility and drainage facilities sections of these zoning regulations. The
procedure for such application will be as follows.
      (1)   Application will be made to the Village Board, and the Village
Board may act or may at its option refer the application to the Planning
Commission. In the event it is referred to the Planning Commission, the
procedures outlined under the final plat provisions shall be followed.
      (2)   The subdivider shall submit an original and five copies of the
plat. The original shall be drawn in ink on tracing cloth, Mylar or similar
material, and shall be at a scale of one to 100 or larger. The plat shall
contain the following:
         (a)   Date, title, name and location of the subdivision;
         (b)   Names and locations of abutting streets and lots identifying
street names and lot and block numbers;
         (c)   Identification of the new lot and block numbers and setback
lines;
         (d)   Graphic scale and true north point;
         (e)   Monuments;
         (f)   Dimensions, angles and bearings and complete legal description
of the property;
         (g)   Sufficient surveying data to reproduce any line on the ground;
         (h)   Location, dimensions and purposes of any existing easements;
         (i)   Certification by surveyor certifying to the accuracy of the
survey and plat; and
         (j)   Certification signed and acknowledged by all parties holding
title or having any title interest in the land subdivided and consenting to the
preparation and recording of the plat as submitted.
      (3)   The plat shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   Protective covenants in form for recording if such are desired
by the subdivider;
         (b)   For subdivisions adjoining or touching the boundaries of the
village’s corporate limits; a tract or area for which annexation proceedings
have been commenced; an approved subdivision which touches or adjoins the
village’s corporate limits, a petition signed by the owner or owners requesting
annexation to the village; and
         (c)   Utility easements signed by the owner or owners to permit all
lots created access to all utilities available in the village, including, but
not limited to, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water, electrical, telephone and
cable television.
§ 12-1.4 SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Subdivision improvements guarantees.
      (1)   The subdivider shall pay for all improvements required for the
subdivision.
      (2)   In lieu of requiring the payment of all improvements, the Village
Board may enter into an agreement with the subdivider whereby the subdivider
shall guarantee to complete all improvements required by this chapter in a
manner satisfactory to the Village Board. To secure this agreement, the
subdivider shall provide 50% of actual bid cost of project within seven days of
the village bid letting.
   (B)   Inspection and certification. The village or other authorized person
shall regularly inspect construction of required improvements for defects. Upon
completion of the improvements, the village or other authorized person shall
file with the Village Board a statement either certifying that the improvements
have been completed in the specified manner or listing defects in those
improvements which do not meet the requirements of the approved improvement
plans and specifications.
§ 12-1.5 DEDICATION OF PUBLIC LAND.
   (A)   At the time of final plat approval by the Village Board, the owners
shall be required to dedicate to the public use all streets, alleys, easements
and buffer strips as required by the Village Board and these regulations.
Acceptance of dedicated land shall be recorded in the minutes of the Village
Board.
   (B)   Subdividers of commercial type subdivisions may be required to
dedicate land for off-street parking as determined necessary by the Village
Board.
§ 12-1.6 SUBDIVISION ANNEXATION.
   (A)   Subdivision annexation of adjoining or contiguous properties. All
subdivisions or additions laid out adjoining or contiguous to the corporate
limits may be annexed with approval, by ordinance, following appropriate state
statute regulations by the Village Board.
   (B)   Subdivision annexation of dedicated land or land served by public
utilities.
      (1)   Any subdivision in which there are lands dedicated to the village
or any subdivision serviced by public utilities may be annexed to the village.
      (2)   Before approval for the final plat is given, the municipal body
shall receive a petition for annexation from the owners of the subdivided
properties.
   (C)   Public services plan. The Village Board desiring to annex land shall
adopt a plan for extending/providing village services to the land. The plan
shall be adopted at the time of annexation or within one year after the date of
annexation. The plan adopted by the Village Board shall contain sufficient
detail to provide reasonable persons with a full and complete understanding of
the intentions of the village for extending/providing village services to the
land proposed for annexation. The plan shall:
      (1)   State the estimated cost impact of providing the services to such
land;
      (2)   State the method by which the village plans to finance the
extension of services (police, fire, snow removal and water service) to the
land and how any services already provided to the land will be maintained;
      (3)   Include a timetable for extending service to the land proposed for
annexation or recently annexed land; and
      (4)   Include a map, drawn to scale, clearly delineating the land
proposed for annexation or recently annexed land, the boundaries of the village
before the annexation and the boundaries of the village after annexation and
the general land-use pattern in the land proposed for annexation.
   (D)   Procedures for annexation. Any land being annexed shall follow the
procedures and requirements as outlined in the state statutes. These
requirements include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Written notification to property owners a minimum of ten days prior
to the public hearing at Planning Commission and Village Board;
      (2)   Publication within the village newspaper a minimum of ten days
prior to the public hearing at Planning Commission and Village Board;
      (3)   Planning Commission public hearing to provide the Village Board
with a recommendation;
      (4)   Public hearing at the Village Board; and
      (5)   Adoption by ordinance following three readings of said ordinance.
§ 12-1.7 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Granting of variances; conditions. The Village Board of Adjustment may
grant variances from the provisions herein, but only after determining that:
      (1)   There are unique circumstances or conditions affecting the
property;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the reasonable and acceptable
development of the property in question; and
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to the adjacent property.
   (B)   Recording of plat. In no case shall the requirement of filing and
recording a plat for subdivision be waived.
   (C)   Planned development. The Village Board of Adjustment may also grant
reasonable variances, if the subdivider concurrently submits an application
for, and obtains approval of, a planned development. The subdivider shall
indicate where the plans vary from the requirements of this article and shall
present sufficient evidence to support the request, indicating why the request
will not be detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare.
§ 12-1.8 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Recreation standards. The Village Planning Commission may require that
land be dedicated for parks and playgrounds or other recreation purposes. Such
areas shall be shown and marked on both the preliminary and final plat, as
“Dedicated for Park and/or Recreation Purpose” The developer shall dedicate all
such recreation areas to the village as a condition of final subdivision plat
approval. The Commission may require that the recreation area be located at a
suitable place on the edge of the subdivision so that additional land may be
added at such time as the adjacent land is subdivided. In no case shall an area
of less than one acre be reserved for recreation purposes if it will be
impractical or impossible to secure additional lands in order to increase its
area.
   (B)   Recreation sites. Land reserved for recreation purposes shall be of a
character and location suitable for use as a playground, playfield or for other
recreation purposes; and shall be improved by the developer to the standards
required by the Planning Commission, which improvements shall be included in
the performance bond, A recreation site shall have a total frontage on one or
more streets of at least 100 feet, and no other dimension of the site shall be
less than 100 feet unless it is for a designated linear park. The Planning
Commission may refer any subdivision with a proposed park to a specific
organization for a recommendation. All land to be reserved for dedication to
the village for park purposes shall have prior approval of the Village Board
and shall be shown marked on the plat “Dedicated for Park.”
§ 12-1.9 VACATIONS.
   (A)   Application. All requests for vacation shall be submitted to the
village, for review and recommendation, to the Planning Commission and Village
Board. After approval of the vacation request by the Village Board, the village
will file the vacation ordinance with the appropriate office in the county.
   (B)   Vacation of portions of street rights-of-way. Requests may be made for
vacating portions of street rights-of-way. Standard vacations will be of equal
amounts on both sides of a street for a minimum of a block length corresponding
to the petitioner’s request and subject to the following standards.
      (1)   Rights-of-way in excess of 100 feet shall be vacated to no less
than 100 feet.
      (2)   One-hundred-foot rights-of-way shall be vacated to no less than 80
feet.
      (3)   Eighty-foot rights-of-way shall be vacated to no less than 66 feet.
      (4)   Rights-of-way of 66 feet or less shall not be vacated to a narrower
width.
   (C)   Petition content. The applicant’s petition shall contain a written
request giving the legal description of property abutting the portion of right-
of-way for which the petition is filed. Such application shall contain a
statement of ownership with mailing address for abutting property. The request
shall also include a plat or survey showing the width of the street, the
portion of the street to be vacated and abutting property with legal
description.
   (D)   Vacation action. Should the village and the Planning Commission decide
the request is in the best public interest and recommend approval, the
following policy shall apply: The Planning Commission will recommend to the
Village Board that the petition be approved and that the vacated right-of-way
revert to abutting property owners on both sides of street for entire length of
block in accordance with the state statutes.
   (E)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to:
      (1)   Assure even vacation on both sides of the street for the entire
block, keeping the paved portion of the street (generally) in the center of the
right-of-way; and
      (2)   Assure that the vacated street right-of-way reverts to abutting
property owners.
   (F)   Vacation of street (not vacated as a portion of a plat vacation). The
applicant shall submit a petition and a survey showing all portions of the
street requested for vacation and abutting property with legal descriptions.
Such application shall contain a statement of ownership with mailing address of
all lands abutting those portions of street.
      (1)   A street may be vacated and remain the property of the village only
if the village owns both sides of the street.
      (2)   The village may require that an easement be granted or maintained
as a part of the vacation ordinance.
   (G)   Alley vacation.
      (1)   An alley may be vacated with ownership reverting to the owners of
the adjacent real estate, one-half of the alley to owner on each side. However,
when an alley is taken wholly from one or more lots, its vacation shall revert
the ownership to the abutting property and become part of that property.
      (2)   When a portion of an alley is vacated only one side of its center,
the title to the property shall vest in the owner of the abutting property and
become part of that property.
   (H)   Vacation of subdivision plats or portions of subdivision plats. An
existing plat or portion of an existing plat must be vacated by ordinance prior
to replatting, after hearings by the Planning Commission and Village Board upon
petition by the owners of such lands.
      (1)   The ordinance granting the vacation shall specify if any public
highways, streets, alleys or other public grounds are to be retained by the
village. If the village does not retain any such lands, ownership shall revert
to abutting lot owners.
      (2)   Any vacation approved shall, at the owner’s expense, be certified
to the appropriate County Register of Deeds and be so recorded. The Register of
Deeds shall then note such vacation on the plat by writing in plain, legible
letters. Such notation shall also contain a reference to the volume and page in
which the ordinance of vacation is recorded. The owners of the lands vacated
shall cause the same to be replatted in accordance with the requirements of
these regulations.
      (3)   Where a plat or portion of a plat is vacated where water, sewer and
paving are already installed, it shall be the responsibility of the petitioner
to provide water and sewer to any newly created lots in the manner prescribed
by the village.
§ 12-1.10 AMENDMENTS.
   Any provision herein from time to time may be amended, supplemented,
changed, modified or repealed by the governing body according to law; provided,
however, that such amendments, supplements, changes, modifications or repealed
provisions shall not become effective until after study and report and
recommendations of the Planning Commission.
CHAPTER 13: PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE REGULATIONS
**** ARTICLE 1: STREETS, ALLEYS, SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS, UTILITY AND
DRAINAGE FACILITIES AND ADDITIONAL IMPROVEMENTS ****
§ 13-1.1 STREETS, ALLEYS, SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Streets. The arrangements, character, extent, width, grade and
location of all streets shall conform to the comprehensive development plan and
shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, to
topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such
streets.
   (B)   Street extension. The street layout of the proposed subdivision shall
provide for the continuation of appropriate projection of streets and alleys
already existing in areas being subdivided. Where, at the determination of the
Village Board, it is desirable to provide street access to adjoining
properties, proposed streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundaries
of such properties. Where the Village Board deems it necessary, such dead-end
streets shall be provided with a temporary turnaround having a radius of at
least 50 feet. The street system for the proposed subdivision shall provide for
extending existing streets at the same or greater width, but in no case shall a
street extension be of less width than the minimum width required in these
regulations for a street in its category.
   (C)   Dedication of right-of-way for new streets. The dedication of right-
of-way for new streets measured from lot line to lot line shall be as shown on
the comprehensive development plan. All streets classified as arterial streets
by the comprehensive development plan shall have all points of access approved
by the Village Board. Marginal access streets may be required by the Village
Board for subdivisions fronting on arterial streets.
   (D)   Dedication of right-of-way for existing streets. Subdivisions platted
along existing streets shall dedicate additional rights-of-way if necessary to
meet the minimum street width requirements set forth in this article. The
entire minimum right-of-way width shall be dedicated where the subdivision is
on both sides of an existing street. When the subdivision is located on only
one side of an existing street, one half of the required right-of-way width,
measured from the centerline of the existing roadway, shall be dedicated.
   (E)   Intersections. Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at an
angle of 90 degrees. Street curb intersections shall be rounded by radii of at
least 20 feet. When the smallest angle of street intersection is less than 75
degrees, the Village Board may require curb radii of greater length. Wherever
necessary to permit the construction of a curb having a desirable radius
without reducing the sidewalk at a street corner to less than normal width, the
property line at such street corner shall be rounded or otherwise set back
sufficiently to permit such curb construction. No lot or other parcel of land
which abuts on and has access to either a collector or a minor street shall
have a service drive, curb cut or other means of access to an arterial street
within 150 feet of the right-of-way of any street which intersects such
arterial street on the side on which such lot or parcel is located.
   (F)   Widths, grades and sight distance requirements. Right-of-way widths,
pavements widths, grades and sight distance requirements shall be as follows.
Type Right-of-Way Width Minimum Pavement Width Grade Min. Sight Distance on
                                                     Curves
                                                                                                     Min.
                                                                         Minimum Pavement            Sight
Type       Right-of-Way Width                                            Width                 Grade Distance
                                                                                                     on
                                                                                                     Curves
                                                                                               No
Alleys     20’                                                         12’ residential     max.  None
                                                                         20’ commercial      No    None
                                                                                               max.
Arterial   **100’                                                      48’                 8%    350’
street*
Collector  **66’                                                       36’                 8%    250’
streets
Cul-de-sac 50’ radius (no fire hydrant); 55’ radius (fire hydrant at 36’ width and 45’ 10%   150’
streets    center)                                                       radius                avg.
Local      60’                                                         36’                 10%   150’
streets                                                                                        avg.
Marginal
access     40’                                                         30’                 8%    250’
streets
(frontage)
Notes to Table:
* Determined by state standards
** Streets in these classifications shall be designed and graded to the full right-of-way widths stated
 
   (G)   Horizontal alignment. The horizontal alignment on all streets, except
in unusual cases, as determined by the Village Planning Commission shall be as
follows.
 
Street Type       Centerline Radii of Horizontal Curves
Arterial streets  400’ minimum
Collector streets 300’ minimum
Local streets     200’ minimum
 
   (H)   Marginal access streets (frontage).
      (1)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
arterial street, the village may require access streets, reverse frontage with
screen planting contained in a non-access reservation along the rear property
line, deep lots with rear service alleys or such other treatment as may be
necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford
separation of through and local traffic.
      (2)   Where the proposed subdivision abuts upon or contains an existing
or proposed arterial street or highway or which traffic volumes and vehicular
speeds warrant special safety considerations, the village may require that
marginal access streets be provided in order that no lots front on such
existing or proposed arterial street or highway.
      (3)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railway right-of-way
or limited access highway right-of-way, the village may require a street
approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way, at a distance
suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park purposes
in residential districts. Such distances shall also be determined with due
regard for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
   (I)   Street jogs. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 150 feet
shall, be prohibited. Cul-de-sacs, minor terminal or dead-end streets or courts
which are designed so as to have one end permanently closed shall not be longer
than 500 feet and shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having
a radius at the outside of the right-of-way of at least 50 feet.
   (J)   Street names.
      (1)   Proposed streets which are in alignment with other already existing
and named streets shall bear the names of such existing streets. The name of a
proposed street which is not in alignment with an existing street shall not
duplicate the name of any existing street, irrespective of the use of the
suffix street, avenue, boulevard, drive, place, court, lane, road, pike,
highway, parkway or similar suffix.
      (2)   Whenever street alignment changes direction more than 45 degrees
without a return to the original alignment within a distance of 500 feet, then
the name of the street shall be changed at the point of curvature. Whenever a
cul-de-sac street serves not more than three lots, the name of the intersecting
street shall apply to the cul-de-sac. To avoid duplication and confusion, the
proposed names of all streets shall be approved by the designated Village
Engineer prior to such names being assigned or used.
   (K)   Private streets and reserve strips. There shall be no private streets
platted within a subdivision. There shall be no reserve strips in a subdivision
except where their control is definitely vested in the village or county under
conditions approved by the Village Board as authorized herein.
   (L)   Street surfacing. The streets in the proposed subdivision shall be
paved, with Portland cement concrete and integral curbs.
   (M)   Blocks. Except in unusual circumstances, the maximum length of blocks
shall be 600 feet.
   (N)   Street name signs. Street name signs of a type in use throughout the
village shall be erected by the subdivider at all intersections.
   (O)   Alleys.
      (1)   Alleys shall be provided to give access to the rear of all lots
used for commercial and industrial purposes. Minimum right-of-way width of an
alley shall be 20 feet. Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment
shall be prohibited. Alley surfacing shall be gravel.
      (2)   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if
unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate facilities at the dead-end, as
determined by the Village Board. Alleys need not be provided in residential
areas where the subdivider produces evidence of easements which are
satisfactory to the Village Board.
   (P)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be provided and shall be constructed of Portland
cement concrete. Sidewalk thickness shall be not less than four inches and
sidewalk width not less than four feet.
      (2)   Sidewalks shall be built within one foot of property lines and
shall be in compliance with standards of the Americans with Disabilities Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
   (Q)   Driveways. Driveways shall have a maximum grade of 10%. Driveways and
curb cuts shall be located not less than three feet from the side lot lines.
Curb cuts for straight curbs and the flare for rolled curbs shall be three feet
wider than the driveway pavement on each side.
   (R)   Street and walkway lighting. All street lighting shall be approved by
the village. At a minimum, such lights shall be located at each street
intersection, unless otherwise approved by the village.
§ 13-1.2 STREET, UTILITY AND DRAINAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Sewer and water.
      (1)   All sewer, water, drainage facilities and streets shall be designed
in accordance with Village Engineer specifications. Drawings and specifications
shall be developed by Village Engineer and constructed under village
supervision.
      (2)   The cost of providing this engineering service and construction
will be the responsibility of the owner or developer of the tract to be
subdivided or by agreement with the village.
   (B)   Erosion control. The subdivider shall be required to provide for the
control for greater than one acre developed erosion of areas of the subdivision
which are disturbed in accordance with the NPDES construction site stormwater
permit.
   (C)   Electric, gas and telephone improvements.
      (1)   All water, sewer and drainage utilities shall be installed prior to
gas, electric or telephone service.
      (2)   (a)   Electric service and telephone service shall be provided
within each subdivision. Gas service may be required where reasonably
accessible.
         (b)   Whenever such facilities are reasonably accessible and
available, they may be required to be installed within the area prior to the
approval of the final plat.
         (c)   Telephone, electric, street lighting and communications
conductors may be installed underground at the option of the Village Board.
      (3)   Overhead secondary utility lines, where installed shall be located
at the rear of all lots.
      (4)   Whenever a sanitary sewer line and electric and/or telephone line
is each placed underground in the same utility easement, the following
provisions shall be applicable:
         (a)   The total easement width shall not be less than 15 feet; and
         (b)   The sanitary sewer line shall be installed within three feet of
the easement, and the electric and/or telephone line shall be installed within
three feet of the opposite side of the easement.
      (5)   Relocation of existing utilities are at the cost of the subdivider.
§ 13-1.3 ADDITIONAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Extensions to boundaries. The subdivider may be required to extend the
necessary improvements to the boundary of the proposed subdivision to serve
adjoining unsubdivided land, as determined by the Village Board.
   (B)   Off-site extensions.
      (1)   If street or utilities are not available at the boundary of a
proposed subdivision, and if the Village Board finds the extensions across
undeveloped areas would not be warranted as a special assessment to the
intervening properties or as a municipal expense until some future time, the
subdivider may be required, prior to the approval of the final plat, to obtain
necessary easements or right-of-way and pay for such extensions.
      (2)   Such improvements shall be available for connections by subdividers
of adjoining land.
CHAPTER 14: ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURES
**** ARTICLE 1: ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 14-1.1 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE.
   The Village Building Inspector shall serve as Zoning Administrator and shall
be responsible for the administration of the ordinance. The Zoning
Administrator shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To enter upon any premises at reasonable times and make all
inspections necessary to the performance of his or her duties;
   (B)   To order work stopped by written notice served on the proper person,
firm or corporation when such work is being done contrary to the provisions of
this chapter;
   (C)   To issue building permits that are in harmony with the provisions of
this chapter; and
   (D)   To allow a period of ten days for compliance with this chapter after
issuance of a stop work notice.
§ 14-1.2 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   The following regulations shall apply to all new construction and all
applicable renovations and remodels within the village’s zoning jurisdiction.
No such permit shall be issued for any building, structure or land use except
in complete conformance with all provisions of these regulations.
§ 14-1.3 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   Every application for a building permit shall include at least the
following:
   (A)   A legal description of the land upon which the construction or
relocations is to take place, the nature of the use or occupancy, the principal
dimensions, the estimated cost, the names of the owner, architect and
contractor and such other information as may be required by the Building
Inspector for determining whether the provisions of this chapter are being
observed;
   (B)   Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit application procedures
contained herein and those contained in any building code adopted by reference,
the provisions contained herein shall govern; and
   (C)   A plot plan drawn to scale and in such form as may, from time to time,
be prescribed by the Building Inspector showing the location, ground area,
height and bulk of all present and proposed structures, drives and parking
lots, the building lines in relation to plot lines, waste disposal areas, the
use to be made of such present and proposed structures on the land, and such
other information as may be required by the Building Inspector for the proper
enforcement of these regulations. One copy of both the plat and the plot plan
shall be retained by the Building Inspector as a public record.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-130 through 17-132, 17-550 and 17-1001
§ 14-1.4 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   A building permit shall be either issued or refused by the Building
Inspector and when building permits are refused, the applicant shall be advised
in writing of the reasons of the refusal.
§ 14-1.5 PERMIT FEE.
   For each permit issued, there shall be charged and collected from the
application a fee as established by the Village Board by ordinance.
§ 14-1.6 PERMITS REVOKED.
   A permit may be revoked at any time by the Building Inspector when it
appears that there is a departure from conditions as required by the terms of
the permit or that any of the terms of this chapter are being violated. In such
case, or when no permit has been issued before construction or occupancy
begins, the Building Inspector may issue a stop order and thereafter any
construction or further violation of this chapter shall be punishable as
provided herein.
§ 14-1.7 EFFECT OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   Any building permit issued by the Building Inspector contrary to the
provisions of this chapter shall be null and void and shall not be construed as
waiving any provisions of this chapter. Building permits are effective for one
year from the date of approval. Applicants must start construction within one
year of approval of the permit and must complete construction within a
reasonable period of time. If construction has not started within one year of
the approval of the application, the building permit shall be null and void.
§ 14-1.8 CERTIFIED SURVEYS.
   The Planning Commission may, at its discretion, require the submission of a
certified survey attached to the building permit application of the property
described in the application.
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cites Code Section
Neb. RS Cites             Code Section
3-301 et seq.             Chapter 10,
                          2-8.1
3-319                     Chapter 10,
                          2-8.1
3-320                     Chapter 10,
                          2-8.1
9-601 et seq.             1-502
10-101—10-143           1-511
11-101                    1-104
11-104                    1-103
11-105                    1-103
11-110—11-119           1-103
11-121                    1-103
11-122                    1-103
13-403                    6-112
                          1-520;
13-501 et seq.            1-523;
                          1-525;
                          1-527
13-503                    1-502
13-504                    1-522
13-505                    1-522
13-506                    1-523
13-507                    1-523
13-508                    1-524
13-509                    1-524
13-509.01                 1-519
13-509.02                 1-519
13-510                    1-526
13-511                    1-525;
                          1-526
13-518—13-522           1-523—
                          1-525
13-519                    1-605
13-606                    1-517
13-609                    1-506
13-801 et seq.            1-201;
                          1-528
13-903                    1-508
13-2020                   7-403;
                          7-404
13-2023                   7-403;
                          7-404
13-2026                   7-403;
                          7-404
16-318(3)                 1-405
16-405                    1-309
16-714—16-716           1-505
17-130—17-132           Chapter 10,
                          14-1.3
17-134                    5-203
17-201                    1-101
17-202                    1-202;
                          1-601
                          1-202;
17-203                    1-205;
                          1-601
                          1-205;
17-204                    1-211;
                          1-212;
                          1-218
17-205                    1-211;
                          1-218
17-207                    1-201;
                          3-107
                          1-401;
                          1-408;
17-208                    2-201;
                          2-203;
                          2-204
17-209                    1-105
17-209.02                 1-402
17-210                    1-205;
                          1-308
17-213                    1-407;
                          1-408
17-214                    1-414
17-500                    Chapter 10,
                          14-1.3
17-502                    1-102
17-503                    6-114
17-503.01                 6-114
17-503.02                 6-115
17-505                    1-301;
                          8-104
17-509                    6-210—
                          6-212
17-509—17-521           6-304
17-510                    6-213;
                          6-306
17-510—17-512           6-210
17-511                    6-214;
                          6-216
17-512                    6-215
17-513—17-524           6-210
17-522                    6-304
17-524                    6-216;
                          6-304
17-525                    5-201
                          3-203—
                          3-206;
17-526                    3-209—
                          3-213;
                          3-217;
                          3-302
17-531                    7-201
17-534                    7-201
17-536                    7-218
                          7-203;
                          7-204;
                          7-206;
                          7-207;
17-537                    7-209—
                          7-211;
                          7-214;
                          7-215;
                          7-223
17-538                    7-101;
                          7-104
                          1-504;
                          1-512;
17-540                    7-108;
                          7-212;
                          7-213;
                          7-316
17-541                    1-401;
                          1-412
17-542                    7-207;
                          7-212
17-543                    1-412
                          3-217;
17-547                    3-302;
                          7-301
17-548                    3-217
                          8-305;
17-549                    8-401;
                          8-404
17-550                    9-201; Chapter 10,
                          14-1.3
17-555                    3-125;
                          6-103
                          3-106;
                          3-115;
17-556                    3-116;
                          8-305;
                          8-403
17-557                    4-217;
                          6-102
                          6-103;
17-557.01                 6-104;
                          6-302
                          6-202;
17-558                    6-217—
                          6-219
                          6-202;
17-559                    6-217;
                          6-218
17-563                    3-128
17-567                    6-102;
                          6-109
17-568                    1-411
17-568.01                 1-411;
                          1-516
17-568.02                 1-516
17-601.01                 1-607
17-601.02                 1-607
17-601.03                 1-607
17-604                    1-103;
                          1-408
17-605                    1-404
17-606                    1-405
17-606(2)                 1-405
17-607                    1-503
17-608                    1-504;
                          1-512
17-609                    1-504
17-610                    1-406
17-612                    1-105
                          1-302;
                          1-308;
17-613                    1-309;
                          1-311;
                          1-516
                          1-303;
17-614                    1-306;
                          1-310
17-615                    1-308
17-616                    1-307
17-701                    1-501
17-702                    1-512;
                          1-532
17-703                    1-513
17-706                    1-520
17-708                    1-510
17-709                    1-515
17-710                    1-514
17-711                    1-509
17-714                    1-508
17-715                    1-508
17-718                    8-101
17-720                    1-505
17-919                    1-411
17-920                    3-125
17-925.01                 7-104;
                          7-301
17-925.02                 7-313
17-953                    6-113
17-953.01                 6-113
17-954                    6-113
Chapter 17, Article 10    Chapter 10,
                          1-2.2
                          9-201;
17-1001                   9-401—
                          9-403; Chapter 10,
                          14-1.3
18-131                    1-308
                          1-301;
                          2-205;
                          4-102;
18-132                    8-301;
                          8-302;
                          9-401—
                          9-403
18-305—18-312           1-106
18-412.01                 1-516
                          7-104;
                          7-307;
18-503                    7-308;
                          7-310;
                          7-312
18-1001—18-1006         6-114
18-1214                   1-533
18-1216                   1-513
18-1701                   1-404
                          1-201;
                          2-408;
                          3-124;
                          3-401;
18-1720                   3-402;
                          3-416;
                          3-602;
                          6-402;
                          9-502
                          3-602;
18-1722                   6-402;
                          9-502
18-1743                   9-203
18-1748                   6-209;
                          7-309
18-1751                   6-116;
                          6-210
18-1755                   6-111
18-1756                   1-516
18-1801—18-1805         1-511
18-2701 et seq.           2-301
                          1-501;
18-2801 et seq.           1-522;
                          1-527
18-2803                   1-527
18-2804                   1-517;
                          1-527
18-2805                   1-527
18-2806                   1-527
18-2807                   1-527
18-2808                   1-527
18-3301                   1-411
19-710                    3-417
Chapter 19, Article 9     Chapter 10,
                          1-2.2
19-902                    8-301;
                          8-302
19-911                    Chapter 10,
                          8-1.1
19-912                    Chapter 10,
                          2-9.7
19-915                    1-310
                          1-301;
19-922                    8-301;
                          9-401—
                          9-403
19-926                    2-501
19-1101                   1-405
19-1102                   1-404
19-1103                   1-404;
                          1-405
19-1301                   1-512
19-1302                   1-512
19-1303                   1-512
19-1304                   1-512
19-1305                   7-201
19-1309                   1-530;
                          1-531
19-1309—19-1312         1-530
19-2401                   6-210
19-2408—19-2415         6-210
19-2417—19-2419         6-304
19-2427                   6-117
                          6-116;
                          6-118;
19-2428—19-2431         6-210;
                          6-213;
                          6-216
                          7-204;
19-2701                   7-207;
                          7-306
19-2902                   1-517
19-2903                   1-517
19-2904                   1-517
19-2905                   1-517
19-2906—19-2909         1-517
19-3101                   1-204
19-3701                   1-309
23-122                    1-404
25-505.01                 1-612
25-1801                   7-106
25-21,275                 7-106
25-21,276                 7-106
25-21,277                 7-106
25-21,278                 7-106
25-2703                   1-301
Chapter 28, Article 3     5-107
28-310                    3-114
28-311.02—28-311.04     3-108
28-318                    3-110
Chapter 28, Article 4     5-107
28-431                    4-601;
                          4-605
28-509—28-518           3-113
28-515.02                 7-105
28-519                    3-112;
                          8-106
28-520                    3-109
28-521                    3-109
28-523                    3-121;
                          3-128
28-609                    8-108
28-610                    3-103
Chapter 28, Article 7     5-107
Chapter 28, Article 8     5-107
28-806                    3-110
28-903                    3-102
28-904                    3-104
28-906                    3-101
28-907                    8-205
28-908                    8-203;
                          8-207
Chapter 28, Article 10    5-107
Chapter 28, Article 11    5-107
Chapter 28, Article 12    5-107
28-1202                   3-105
28-1229                   8-403
28-1241                   8-501
28-1241—28-1252         8-501
28-1321                   2-408
28-1322                   3-117
29-4001 et seq.           3-501
29-4001.01                3-501
29-4003                   3-501
29-4016                   3-501
29-4017                   3-502;
                          3-503
31-1001—31-1023         Chapter 10,
                          2-9.1
                          1-512;
                          1-529;
32-101 et seq.            1-602;
                          1-603;
                          1-605
32-404                    1-603
32-404(2)                 1-602
32-405                    1-605;
                          1-612
32-532                    1-601
32-554                    1-601
32-556                    1-602;
                          1-603
32-558                    1-611
32-559                    1-605
32-560                    1-203;
                          1-204
32-561                    1-203
32-562                    1-612
32-564                    1-605
32-567—32-570           1-612
32-569                    1-203
32-574                    1-612
32-606.01                 1-612
32-607                    1-606
32-608                    1-608
32-617                    1-606
32-618                    1-606
32-628                    1-606;
                          6-114
32-628—32-631           1-529
32-629                    1-606;
                          1-612
32-630                    1-606;
                          1-612
32-631                    1-606
32-632                    1-612
32-802                    1-529;
                          1-604
32-805                    1-609
32-952—32-959           1-605
32-1033                   1-611
32-1202                   1-605;
                          1-609
32-1301                   1-612
32-1302                   1-612
32-1303                   1-612
32-1304                   1-612
32-1305                   1-612
32-1306                   1-612
32-1307                   1-612
32-1308                   1-203;
                          1-612
32-1309                   1-612
32-1525                   1-610
33-139.01                 8-105
33-141                    1-405
35-101—35-103           8-105
35-102                    8-104
35-108                    8-104;
                          8-105
35-501                    8-101
35-514.02                 8-103
35-520                    8-205
35-530                    8-101
39-307                    3-126
39-311                    4-136
45-104.01                 6-216
45-601 et seq.            1-507
45-623                    1-507
46-1601—46-1670         Chapter 10,
                          2-9.11
48-1503                   1-516
49-1408                   1-106
49-1425                   1-106
49-1499.03—49-14,103    1-106
49-1499.04                1-106
49-14,102                 1-106
49-14,103.01              1-106
49-14,103.01—49-14,103.01-402
49-14,103.02              1-106
49-14,103.03              1-106
49-14,103.04              1-106
49-14,103.05              1-106
49-14,103.06              1-106
                          1-529;
51-201                    2-101;
                          2-107
51-202                    2-101;
                          2-102
51-204                    2-103
51-205                    2-104;
                          2-106
51-207                    2-111
51-209                    2-113
                          2-101;
                          2-104;
51-211                    2-106;
                          2-108—
                          2-110;
                          2-112
51-212                    2-107
51-213                    2-105
51-215                    1-512
51-216                    1-512
51-501                    1-529
                          5-102;
                          5-104—
                          5-107;
53-101 et seq.            5-112;
                          5-114—
                          5-116;
                          5-125—
                          5-129
53-103                    3-120
53-103.01—53-103.51     3-120;
                          5-101
53-103.23                 3-119
53-116.01                 5-114
53-116.02                 5-128
53-118                    5-110
53-124                    5-106;
                          5-111
53-124(5)                 5-106
53-124.01                 5-106
53-124.12                 5-111
53-125                    5-107
53-131                    5-106
53-132                    5-106
53-133                    5-106;
                          5-108
53-134                    5-106;
                          5-127
53-134.03                 5-110;
                          5-118
53-134.04                 5-106;
                          5-125
53-135                    5-123;
                          5-124
                          5-106;
53-135.01                 5-123;
                          5-124
53-148                    5-112
                          5-102;
53-168.06                 5-105;
                          5-117
53-177                    5-108
53-177.01                 5-108
53-178                    5-109
53-180                    5-119
53-180.01                 3-119
53-180.02                 3-120
53-180.05                 3-119
53-183                    5-120
53-184                    5-121
53-186                    5-103
53-186(1)                 5-103
53-186(2)                 5-103
53-186.01                 5-104
53-1,101                  5-115
53-1,102                  5-116
53-1,115                  5-125
53-1,121                  5-130
53-401—53-409           3-120
54-601                    3-210
54-602                    3-210
54-603                    3-203;
                          3-204
54-605                    3-207
54-606                    3-210
54-607                    3-209;
                          3-302
55-133                    4-101
Chapter 60, Article 1     4-401
60-119.01                 4-507
60-169                    4-601
60-180                    4-132
Chapter 60, Article 3     4-401
60-301 et seq.            4-601
60-324                    4-139
60-325                    4-139
60-329—60-339           1-533
60-336.01                 4-507
60-376                    4-603
Chapter 60, Article 4     4-401
60-462 et seq.            4-104
Chapter 60, Article 5     4-401
60-501                    4-507
                          4-101;
60-601 et seq.            4-104;
                          4-105
60-605                    4-507
60-606—60-676           4-101
60-607                    4-101
60-610                    4-101
60-613                    4-101
60-624                    4-101;
                          4-505
60-631                    4-101
60-638                    4-101
60-646                    4-101
60-654                    4-101
60-656                    4-101
60-658.01                 4-101
60-661                    4-101
60-669                    4-101
60-670                    4-101
60-671                    4-101
60-672                    4-101
60-676                    4-101
60-678                    4-306
                          4-107;
                          4-109;
60-680                    4-113;
                          4-201—
                          4-203
60-681                    4-108
60-683                    4-104
60-4,126                  4-506
60-4,182                  4-119—
                          4-122
60-6,110                  4-105
60-6,114                  4-215
60-6,118                  4-101
60-6,119—60-6,121       4-107;
                          4-113
60-6,127                  4-112
60-6,129                  4-111
60-6,139                  4-128
60-6,140                  4-130
60-6,142                  4-302
60-6,146—60-6,154       4-123
60-6,149                  4-114
60-6,151                  4-124
60-6,159                  4-125
60-6,160                  4-126
60-6,161                  4-125
60-6,164                  4-115
60-6,165                  4-219
60-6,166                  4-115;
                          4-216
60-6,167                  4-201;
                          4-202
60-6,168                  4-209
60-6,169                  4-127
60-6,178                  4-135
60-6,179                  4-131
60-6,183                  4-129;
                          8-202
60-6,184                  8-204
60-6,186                  4-116
60-6,190                  4-110;
                          4-116
60-6,192                  4-117
60-6,195                  4-118
60-6,211.08               5-103;
                          5-104
60-6,212                  4-119
60-6,213                  4-120
60-6,214                  4-121
60-6,215                  4-120
60-6,216                  4-121
60-6,219                  4-408
60-6,243                  4-141
60-6,250                  6-110
60-6,279                  4-406
60-6,286                  4-134
60-6,288—60-6,294       9-301
60-6,296                  9-301
60-6,304                  4-142
60-6,307                  4-407
60-6,308                  4-407
60-6,309                  4-401
60-6,310                  4-402
60-6,311                  4-403
60-6,312                  4-405
60-6,313                  4-403;
                          4-404
60-6,315                  4-301
60-6,316                  4-133
60-6,317                  4-302
60-6,318                  4-303
60-6,335                  4-501
60-6,337                  4-503
60-6,338                  4-502
60-6,343                  4-504
60-6,347                  4-304
60-6,348                  4-305
60-6,352                  4-304
60-6,355                  4-505
60-6,356                  4-506
60-1901                   4-601
60-1902                   4-603
60-1903                   4-601;
                          4-604
60-1903.01                4-605
60-1904                   4-606
60-1905                   4-607
60-1906                   4-608
60-1907                   4-602
60-1908                   4-609
60-1909                   4-610
69-2427 et seq.           3-105
69-2429                   3-105
70-624.04                 1-106
70-1601—70-1615         7-105
70-1603                   7-103
70-1604                   7-103
70-2103                   3-109
71-423                    5-130
71-1555 et seq.           Chapter 10,
                          1-4.6
71-1557                   Chapter 10,
                          1-4.6
71-1637                   1-529
71-1908 et seq.           3-501
71-4402                   3-202
71-4406                   3-215;
                          3-304
71-4408                   3-217
71-4603                   4-601
71-5301                   7-208;
                          7-211
72-1237                   1-504
72-1269                   1-504
Chapter 72, Article 14    6-113
73-101 et seq.            1-516
76-3502                   9-204
76-3503                   9-204
76-3504                   9-204
76-3505                   9-204
76-3506                   9-204
76-3507                   9-204
77-1343                   6-118
77-1601                   1-527
77-1606                   1-528;
                          1-529
77-1632                   1-527
77-1702                   1-506
77-2201                   1-405
77-2201—77-2215         1-405
77-2202                   1-405
77-2209                   1-405
77-2210                   1-405
77-2212                   1-405
77-2341                   1-504
77-2362                   1-503
77-2363                   1-503
77-2364                   1-503
77-2365.01                1-503;
                          1-505
77-2366                   1-503;
                          1-505
77-2386 et seq.           1-503
77-23,109 et seq.         1-504
77-3442                   1-530;
                          1-605
77-3442—77-3444         1-529
77-3444                   1-529;
                          1-605
80-202                    1-529
73-801—73-819           1-516
81-502                    8-301;
                          8-302
81-506                    8-104;
                          8-208
81-512                    8-104;
                          8-306
81-520.01                 8-304;
                          8-305
81-829.51                 1-525
84-304                    1-517
84-712—84-712.09        1-404;
                          1-405
84-712(2)                 1-404
84-1201 et seq.           1-404
84-1407 et seq.           1-208;
                          1-209
84-1408                   1-209
84-1409                   1-206;
                          1-207
84-1410                   1-217
                          1-209;
84-1411                   1-210;
                          1-219
84-1411(7)                1-209
84-1412                   1-208
84-1413                   1-215;
                          1-216
                          
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
 
Prior Code 2026 Code
2-501      2-601
5-301      5-401
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        2-11-1991   1-110
2005-3   4-11-2005   8-101
2022-2   8-8-2022    3-421
2023-2   1-10-2023   1-407
2023-3   1-10-2023   1-105
2023-6   2-13-2023   1-109
2023-10  5-8-2023    8-308
2023-12  6-12-2023   7-210
2024-2   5-13-2024   1-108
2024-9   12-9-2024   1-111
                     1-211;
                     1-220;
                     3-208;
                     3-402;
2025-1   1-13-2025   3-418—
                     3-425;
                     5-301—
                     5-310;
                     7-103;
                     7-104
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
304      3-1-1983    8-105
205      10-3-1988   4-406
89-4     11-13-1989  7-308
90-1     1-8-1990    3-301
90-2     1-8-1990    7-208
90-3     3-12-1990   3-107
90-4     4-9-1990    7-308
90-6     4-9-1990    3-301
90-7     4-9-1990    7-208
90-8     4-9-1990    7-220
91-1     1-14-1991   1-203
91-2     1-14-1991   1-402
371      3-12-1991   8-105
91-12    9-12-1991   7-207
91-14    12-14-1991  7-219
92-5     6-29-1992   7-207;
                     7-223
92-6     6-29-1992   7-401—
                     7-404
93-1     2-8-1993    1-204
93-6     9-13-1993   7-401—
                     7-404
95-1     3-13-1995   6-111
95-2     3-13-1995   1-217
95-3     3-13-1995   1-306
95-5     3-13-1995   1-519
95-11    11-13-1995  7-308
97-2     6-9-1997    3-209;
                     3-211
98-10    9-14-1998   7-221
99-1     2-8-1999    3-305
358      12-17-2001  8-601
2002-1   3-11-2002   7-224
2002-2   3-11-2002   7-220;
                     7-222
2003-6   11-11-2003  7-207
2003-7   11-11-2003  7-308
2003-8   11-11-2003  7-401—
                     7-404
2005-8   12-12-2005  7-308
2005-9   12-12-2005  7-401—
                     7-404
2005-10  12-12-2005  7-207;
                     7-223
2006-1   5-8-2006    3-501—
                     3-503
2007-3   10-15-2007  4-505;
                     4-506
2007-4   10-15-2007  7-401—
                     7-404
2009-1   1-12-2009   7-308
2009-2   2-9-2009    3-216
2010-2   3-8-2010    7-223
2010-3   3-8-2010    7-308
2012-2   3-8-2010    7-207
2012-1   2-13-2012   1-534
2012-2   2-13-2012   2-301—
                     2-304
2012-2   2-13-2012   1-110
2012-3   5-14-2012   4-140
2012-4   6-11-2012   2-102—
                     2-104
2013-2   2-11-2013   7-401—
                     7-404
2015-1   9-16-2015   7-219
-        - -2017     10-101
2017-1   7-10-2017   2-501—
                     2-503
2018-1   4-9-2018    7-212
2019-04  7-8-2019    10-101
2022-2   2-16-2022   1-110
2022-3   2-16-2022   1-220
2022-4   3-14-2022   3-402
2022-7   5-9-2022    3-418—
                     3-425
2022-11  7-13-2022   Chapter 10,
                     2-3.1
2022-12  8-8-2022    5-301—
                     5-310
2022-17  11-14-2022  1-110
2023-9   9-11-2022   7-402
2022-15  10-12-2022  1-107
2023-4   7-10-2023   3-208
2023-5   7-10-2023   4-116
2023-6   8-14-2023   7-107
2023-7   8-14-2023   7-305;
                     7-314
2023-11  12-13-2023  1-211
2024-1   3-11-2024   Chapter 10,
                     8-1.1
2024-4   6-10-2024   5-113
2024-5   9-9-2024    7-108
2024-6   9-9-2024    7-103;
                     7-104
2025-1   3-10-2025   4-116
2026-2   3-9-2026    7-212;
                     7-314
2026-3   5-11-2026   9-201
                    
 
