KIMBALL, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2026 S-7 Supplement Contains:
Local Legislation current through Ordinance No. 832, passed 11-19-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
***** ORDINANCE NO. 692 *****
   AN ORDINANCE TO REVISE ALL THE ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF KIMBALL, NEBRASKA,
TO REPEAL PRIOR ORDINANCES, TO REQUIRE FILING, PROVIDING FOR THE EFFECTIVE DATE
OF THIS ORDINANCE AND PUBLICATION IN PAMPHLET FORM.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF KIMBALL, NEBRASKA:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Kimball, Nebraska, are
hereby revised, codified, and printed in book form as the "City of Kimball,
Nebraska Code of Ordinances" consisting of the following Titles:
   See attached Table of Contents
   Section 2. The Code of Ordinances contains all of the provisions of a
general nature pertaining to the subjects enumerated and embraced in the code.
All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by the code are
repealed, except that nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions
involving, or fines, penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant
to such ordinances prior to repeal.
   Section 3. All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in the Code of Ordinances,
including ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in full force and
effect unless repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
      1.   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other
public places.
      2.   Annexing or detaching territory.
      3.   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use.
      4.   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property.
      5.   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
      6.   Levying taxes or special assessments.
      7.   Appropriating money.
      8.   Granting franchises or special licenses.
      9.   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   Section 4. At least one copy of the Code of Ordinances shall be on file in
the office of the City Clerk and available for inspection by members of the
public during the hours the office is kept open for the ordinary transaction of
business. The Clerk shall file a copy of the ordinances with the County Court.
   Section 5. This ordinance shall be published in pamphlet form and shall be
in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval, and publication
as provided by law.
   Passed and approved this 5th day of February, 2013.
                                 CITY OF KIMBALL, NEBRASKA
                                 James W. Schnell /s/
                                 James W. Schnell, Mayor
ATTEST:
Rosemarie D. Russell /s/
Rosemarie D. Russell, City Clerk
   KIMBALL, NEBRASKA
    TABLE OF CONTENTS
   Chapter
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   General Provisions
      11.   City Standards
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.   Elected Officials; Ordinances
      31.   Appointed City Officials
      32.    Departments, Boards, and Commissions
      33.    General Provisions
      34.   Elections
      35.   Finance and Revenue
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50.   General Provisions
      51.   Water
      52.   Sewers
      53.   Electrical Department
      54.   Garbage
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70.   General Provisions
      71.   Traffic Regulations
      72.   Bicycles, Snowmobiles, and All-Terrain Vehicles
      73.   Parking Regulations
      74.   Traffic Schedules
      75.   Parking Schedules
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Leisure and Recreation
      91.   Cemetery
      92.   Fire Regulations
      93.   Health and Safety
      94.   Public Ways and Property
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS (Cont'd)
      95.   Animals
      96.   Tree Board; Trees
      97.   Fair Housing
      98.   Abandoned and Wrecked Vehicles
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110. Business Licensing
      111. Alcoholic Beverages
      112. Peddlers and Solicitors
      113. Amusements
      114. Lottery
      115. Railroad Companies
      116. Food Service
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130. Property Offenses
      131. Offenses Against Public Order
      132. Offenses Against Public Justice and Administration
      133. Offenses Against Public Health and Safety
      134. Offenses Against Public Morals
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150. Building Regulations
      151. Trailers and Trailer Courts
      152. Signs and Billboards
      153. Oil and Gas Wells
      154. Zoning and Subdivision Regulations
      155. Wellhead Protection
      156. Floodplain Management
PARALLEL REFERENCES
      References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
      References to 1992 Code
      References to Ordinances
INDEX
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Supplementation of code of ordinances
   
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Kimball, Nebraska,
shall be designated as the Code of Kimball and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Kimball,
Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL, COUNCIL, or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the
City of Kimball, Nebraska.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Kimball County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies, and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall
be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture, or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued
in force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.
      Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am.
Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS
17-100)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference“ following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code was derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1992, as subsequently amended, the 1992
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1992 Code, §
     ).”
§ 10.17 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Discretion. When preparing a supplement to this municipal code, the
codifier (that is, the person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare
the supplement) may make formal nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts
of ordinances included in the supplement as necessary to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate sections and
divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the ordinance printed in the supplement and make
changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this subchapter,” “this section,” and the like, as may be
appropriate, or to “§§       through      ” (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code);
      (5)   Insert appropriate section numbers in references to code sections
such as “§      ” or “§§       through      ” which are not filled in prior to
adoption of an ordinance;
      (6)   Correct the spelling of words, correct obvious typographical
errors, correct erroneous division and hyphenation of words, capitalize or
decapitalize words, and make other similar changes in accordance with accepted
usage or for consistency with other provisions of the code;
      (7)   Change terminology for consistency with terminology used in other
provisions of the code; and
      (8)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to incorporate
ordinance material into the code while preserving the original meaning of the
ordinance sections.
   (B)   Prohibition. In no case shall the codifier make any change in the
meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already
embodied in the code and not repealed by any ordinance.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this municipal code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in §
93.15, the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same,
in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Ordinance enforcement powers, see Neb. RS 17-505
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official corporate seal
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   There shall be owned by the city and kept in the office the City Clerk
a common seal of the corporation having engraved thereon the words “City of
Kimball, Nebraska.”
   (B)   The City Clerk shall affix an impression of the official seal to all
warrants, licenses, ordinances, and other papers issued by order of the Mayor
and City Council to be signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the Clerk.
(1992 Code, § 1-401)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
      
31.   APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Election; qualifications; term
   
30.02   Powers and duties
   
30.03   Vacancy
City Council
   
30.15   Election; qualifications; terms
   
30.16   President; Acting President
   
30.17   Standing committees
   
30.18   Vacancy; general provisions
   
30.19   Vacancy due to unexcused absences
   
30.31   Council; organizational meeting
Ordinances, Resolutions, and Motions
   
30.45   Grant of power
   
30.46   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.47   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
30.48   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.49   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.50   Publication or posting
   
30.51   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.52   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.53   Amendments and revisions
**** MAYOR ****
§ 30.01 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected as provided in the Election Act. The Mayor
shall take office on the date of the first regular meeting of the City Council
held in December following the statewide general election. The Mayor shall be a
resident and registered voter of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of 4 years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
(1992 Code, § 1-101)
§ 30.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. The Mayor
shall vote when his or her vote would provide the additional vote required to
attain the number of votes equal to a majority of the number of members elected
to the City Council on any pending matter, legislation, or transaction, and the
Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of the
Council. He or she shall have superintendence and control of all the officers
and affairs of the city, and shall take care that the ordinances of the city
and all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with.
(Neb. RS 17-110)
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by
the City Council. Any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor may be passed over the veto
by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the Council. If the Mayor neglects or
refuses to sign any ordinance, and return the same with his or her objections
in writing at the next regular meeting of the Council, the same shall become a
law without his or her signature.
(Neb. RS 17-111)
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort, and general prosperity of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-112)
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers,
and to make reports to the Council, in writing, touching any subject or matter
pertaining to his or her office.
(Neb. RS 17-113)
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance, over all places within 5 miles of the corporate limits of the
city, for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation
thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or her by
ordinance, excepting taxation, within ½ mile of the corporate limits of the
city.
(Neb. RS 17-114)
   (F)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures, and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
(Neb. RS 17-117)
   (G)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
   (H)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk's minutes of all meetings of the
City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been passed
and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor by
the laws of the State of Nebraska or as the Council may by resolution confer
upon the Mayor.
(Am. Ord. 702, passed 1-7-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603, and 32-604
§ 30.03 VACANCY.
   (A)   The office of Mayor shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   In case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the City Council shall exercise
the office of Mayor for the unexpired term, until such disability is removed,
or in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
      (2)   If the President of the Council assumes the office of Mayor for the
unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Neb. RS 17-107, 32-568)
(1992 Code, § 1-106)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
**** CITY COUNCIL ****
§ 30.15 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS.
   (A)   The City Council shall consist of not less than 4 nor more than 12
residents of the city who are registered voters.
(Neb. RS 17-103)
   (B)   All Council members shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
ballot unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
   (C)   If members of the Council are not elected at large:
      (1)   The city shall be divided into not less than 2 nor more than 6
wards, as may be provided by ordinance of the City Council, and each ward shall
contain, as nearly as practicable, an equal portion of the population;
(Neb. RS 17-102)
      (2)   Each ward of the city shall have at least 2 Council members elected
in the manner provided in the Election Act. No person shall be eligible to the
office of Council member who is not at the time of the election an actual
resident of the ward for which he or she is elected and a registered voter; and
(Neb. RS 17-104)
      (3)   Such wards shall be substantially equal in population as determined
by the most recent federal decennial census.
(Neb. RS 32-553)
   (D)   The term of office shall begin on the first regular meeting of the
Council in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 17-104)
   (E)   Members of the Council shall serve for terms of 4 years or until their
successors are elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
(1992 Code, § 1-103)
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603, 32-604
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Other requirements for wards, see Neb. RS 32-552 and 32-553
   Ability to elect council members at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
§ 30.16 PRESIDENT; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body who shall be styled
the President of the Council and who shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   In the absence of the President, the Council shall elect one of its
own body to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting
President of the Council.
   (C)   The President, and Acting President, when occupying the place of the
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the Council; and all
acts of the President or Acting President, while so acting, shall be as binding
upon the Council and upon the city as if done by the Mayor.
(Neb. RS 17-148) (1992 Code, § 1-102)
§ 30.17 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members of such standing committees as the Council may create by ordinance or
resolution. The membership of such standing committees may be changed at any
time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be an ex officio member of each standing
committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office
of one year, unless reappointed.
§ 30.18 VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The office of member of the City Council shall be vacant upon the
happening of any of the events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided
in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   Any vacancy on the City Council shall be filled as provided in
division (C) of this section.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) or (3) or
§ 30.03, vacancies in city elective offices shall be filled by the Mayor and
Council for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a
vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and
presented to the Council at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a
part of the minutes of such meeting. The Council shall at once give public
notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city or by posting in 3 public places in the city the
office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
         (b)   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the Council or place
the issue of filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular meeting at
which time the Mayor shall submit the name of a qualified registered voter to
fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The regular or special
meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent or within 4 weeks after the
meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented. The Council shall
vote upon the nominee, and if a majority votes in favor of the nominee, the
vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to receive a majority f
the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Mayor shall, at the next
regular or special meeting, submit the name of another qualified registered
voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails to receive a
majority of the votes, the Mayor shall continue at that meeting to submit the
names of qualified registered voters in nomination and the Council shall
continue to vote upon the nominations at such meeting until the vacancy is
filled. The Mayor shall cast his or her vote for or against the nominee in case
of a tie vote of the Council. All Council members present shall cast a ballot
for or against the nominee. Any member of the Council who has been appointed to
fill a vacancy on the Council shall have the same rights, including voting, as
if that person were elected.
      (2)   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a city
elected office as provided in division (C)(1), call a special city election to
fill such vacancy.
      (3)   If vacancies exist in the offices of a majority of the members of
the City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special city election
to fill such vacancies.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
(1992 Code, § 1-105)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 30.19 VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the City Council shall exist if a member is absent from more than 5 consecutive
regular meetings of the Council unless the absences are excused by a majority
vote of the remaining members.
(Neb. RS 19-3101)
   (B)   The City Council shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member's
absence from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the City Clerk; or
      (2)   A motion of any other Councilmember.
   (C)   If a Councilmember has been absent from 6 consecutive regular meetings
and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the remaining
members, the City Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda for the
next regular meeting. At that meeting, the Council shall set a date for a
hearing and direct the City Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by
personal service or first class mail to the member's last known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Councilmember shall have the right to present
information on why 1 or more of the absences should be excused. If the Council
does not excuse 1 or more of the member's absences by a majority vote at the
conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
§ 30.20 COUNCIL; ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   The elected Council shall convene at the regular place of meeting in the
city on the first regular meeting in December of each year in which a municipal
election is held immediately after the prior Council adjourns and proceed to
organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor elected for the new
municipal year shall call the meeting to order. The Council shall then proceed
to examine the credentials of the members and other elected officials of the
city to see that each has been duly and properly elected, and to see that such
oaths and bonds has been given as are required. After ascertaining that all
members are duly qualified, the Council shall then elect one of its own body
who shall be styled as President of the Council. The Mayor shall then nominate
his or her candidates for appointed offices. The Mayor shall then proceed with
the regular order of business. It is hereby made the duty of each and every
member of the Council, or his or her successor in office, and of each official
elected to any office, to qualify prior to the first regular meeting in
December following their election. All appointed officials shall qualify within
2 weeks following their appointment. Qualification for each official who is not
required to give bond shall consist in his or her subscribing and taking an
oath to support the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the
State of Nebraska, the laws of the municipality, and to perform faithfully and
impartially the duties of their office, the oath to be filed with the office of
the City Clerk. Each official who is required to give a bond shall file the
required bond in the office of the City Clerk with sufficient sureties,
conditioned on the faithful discharge of the duties of their office, with the
oath endorsed thereon.
(1992 Code, § 1-104) (Am. Ord. 679, passed 11-16-2011)
Cross-reference:
   Councilmembers elected at large, see §
34.07
   Wards; polling places, see §
34.08
Statutory reference:
   Councilmember qualifications, see Neb. RS 17-104
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND MOTIONS
§ 30.45 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers, the city shall have the power to make all
ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and resolutions, not inconsistent with
the laws of the state, as may be expedient for maintaining the peace, good
government, and welfare of the city and its trade, commerce, and manufactories,
and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties for the breach
thereof, not exceeding $500 for any one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505) (1992 Code, § 1-601) (Am. Ord. 529, passed 3-17-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 30.46 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, ordinances shall be introduced
by members of the City Council in 1 of the following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may, in the presence and
hearing of a majority of the members elected to the City Council, read aloud
the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the City Clerk for
future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may present the proposed
ordinance to the Clerk, who, in the presence and hearing of a majority of the
members elected to the City Council, shall read aloud the substance of the
ordinance and file it for future consideration.
(Ord 539, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 30.47 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, resolutions and motions shall be
introduced in 1 of the methods prescribed in § 30.46 for the introduction of
ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution or motion shall be disposed of
in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law adopted for the guidance of
the City Council. A majority vote shall be required to pass any resolution or
motion. The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§ 30.48 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   Style. The style of all city ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by
the Mayor and Council of the City of __________, Nebraska:….”
(Neb. RS 17-613) (1992 Code, § 1-602)
   (B)   Title. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly
expressed in the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614) (1992 Code, § 1-603)
§ 30.49 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the City Council. The Mayor may vote when
his or her vote would provide the additional vote required to attain the number
of votes equal to a majority of the number of members elected to the Council,
and the Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of
the Council. Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title
on 3 different days unless ¾ of the City Council vote to suspend this
requirement, except that this requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory. In case this requirement is
suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved for final
passage. Three-fourths of the City Council may require a reading of any such
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the yeas and
nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance, or
any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the City Council shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the City Council shall be made viva voce, and the concurrence
of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and for whom they
voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded. The
requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
(1992 Code, § 1-604) (Am. Ord. 502, passed 11-21-1995; Am. Ord. 531, passed 3-
17-1998; Am. Ord. 702, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 30.50 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published 1 time, within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In some newspaper published in the city or, if no paper is published
in the city, then by posting a written or printed copy in each of 3 public
places in the city; or
   (B)   In book or pamphlet form.
(Neb. RS 17-613) (1992 Code, § 1-605) (Am. Ord. 532, passed 3-17-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
§ 30.51 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the city from the City
Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and in what
paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the ordinance
was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613) (1992 Code, § 1-606)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 30.52 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.50 and division (B) of this section, an ordinance for the government of the
city which has been adopted by the City Council without submission to the
voters of the city shall not go into effect until 15 days after the passage of
the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least 3 of the most public places in
the city. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be passed by a 3/
4 vote of the City Council, and be entered of record on the City Clerk’s
minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
(1992 Code, § 1-607) (Am. Ord. 533, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 30.53 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the city and modifications to zoning or building
districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614) (1992 Code, § 1-608) (Am. Ord. 534, passed 3-17-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the city, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 31: APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Appointment; removal
   
31.02   Merger of offices
   
31.03   City Administrator
   
31.04   Merger of City Administrator with other offices
   
31.05   (Reserved)
   
31.06   City Clerk
   
31.07   City Treasurer
   
31.08   City Attorney
   
31.09   Police Chief
   
31.10   City police officers
   
31.11   City Fire Chief
   
31.12   City Engineer; Special Engineer
   
31.13   City Physician
   
31.14   (Reserved)
   
31.15   City Water and Wastewater Superintendent
   
31.16   (Reserved)
   
31.17   Building/Zoning Inspector
   
31.18   Deputy City Clerk
   
31.19   Deputy City Treasurer
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council, may appoint
such officials as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
The officials may be removed from office by the Mayor. The Mayor, by and with
the consent of the City Council, shall appoint: City Administrator, City Clerk,
City Engineer, City Treasurer, City Attorney, Police Chief, regular police
officers, City Physician and such other officials as may be necessary. The
officials, except regular police officers, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed
by the City Council, shall hold office for one year unless sooner removed.
   (B)   The Mayor, by and with the consent of Council, shall appoint such a
number of regular police officers as may be necessary, including the Police
Chief. All police officers and Police Chief appointed by the Mayor and Council
may be removed, demoted or suspended at any time by the Mayor. A police
officer, including the Chief of Police, may appeal to the City Council such
removal, demotion or suspension with our without pay. After a hearing, the City
Council may uphold, reverse or modify the action.
   (C)   The following rules and regulations governing the removal, demotion or
suspension with or without pay of any police officer, including the Police
Chief are adopted. Removal, demotion or suspension action may be taken against
any police officer, including the Chief of Police, upon the written accusation
of the Mayor, any citizen or taxpayer or the Police Chief. The police officer
or Police Chief shall be given notice of the written accusation within 5 days
of its receipt. The Police Chief or police officer shall have the right to have
an attorney or representative retained by the police officer or Police Chief
present with him or her at all hearings or proceedings regarding the written
accusation. The Police Chief, police officer and any individual imposing the
action, or their respective attorneys or representatives shall have the right
to record all the hearings of the proceeding regarding the written accusation.
The hearing shall be conducted informally.
   (D)   After any action taken to remove, demote or suspend a Police Chief or
police officer following a written accusation, the police officer or Police
Chief may appeal the action, by written appeal filed within 5 days from the
date the action is taken. The written appeal shall be delivered to the City
Administrator within that time limit.
   (E)   In the event a written appeal is received by the City Administrator
within 5 days from the date the action is taken, an informal hearing at the
City Council’s next regularly scheduled meeting, or at a special meeting called
for that purpose, shall be held. The police officer, Police Chief, and the
individual imposing the action, or their respective attorneys or
representatives, shall have the right at the hearing to be heard and to present
evidence to the City Council for its consideration. Not later than 30 days
following the adjournment of the meeting at which the hearing was held, the
City Council shall vote to uphold, reverse or modify the action. The failure of
the City Council to act within 30 days or the failure of a majority of the
elected Council members to vote to reverse or modify the action shall be
construed a vote to uphold the action. The decision of the City Council shall
be based upon its determination that, under the facts and evidence presented at
the hearing, the action was necessary for the proper management and the
effective operation of the Police Department in the performance of its duties
under the statutes of the State of Nebraska.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the preemptory
suspension or immediate removal from duty of a police officer or Police Chief
by the appropriate authority pending the hearing authorized by this section, in
cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or of disobedience of orders.
   (G)   This section does not apply to a police officer or a Police Chief
during his or her probationary period.
(1992 Code, § 1-201) (Am. Ord. 527, passed 3-17-1998; Am. Ord. 679, passed 11-
16-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Appointments generally, see Neb. RS 17-107
   Law enforcement reserve force, see Neb. RS 81-1438
   Water Commissioner, see Neb. RS 17-541
§ 31.02 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   The City Council may at its discretion by ordinance combine and merge
any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of
any such offices or employments, except Mayor and Councilmember, with any other
elective or appointive office or employment so that 1 or more of such offices
or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices or employments
may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time.
   (B)   The offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be
construed to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be
limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary or compensation of the officer or employee holding the
merged and combined offices or employments or offices and employments shall not
be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or
compensation of the office, offices, employment, or employments so merged and
combined.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Neb. RS 17-108.02) (1992 Code, § 1-202) (Ord. 827, passed 5-15-2024)
Cross-reference:
   For local provisions regarding particular merged offices, see Title XVII
§ 31.03 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the
consent of a majority of the City Council. He or she shall be the
administrative head of the city government under the direction and control of
the Mayor and City Council and shall be responsible to the Mayor and City
Council for the efficient conduct of his or her office.
   (B)   The duties of the City Administrator shall be as follows:
      (1)   He or she shall make and keep up to date an inventory of all
property, real and personal, owned by the city;
      (2)   He or she shall act as purchasing agent for the purchase of all
supplies, goods, wares and merchandise, equipment, and material which may be
required for the various departments, divisions, or services of the city;
      (3)   He or she shall keep the Mayor and Council fully advised as to the
financial conditions and needs of the city and shall be responsible for and
prepare the annual estimate of expenditures for presentation to the Mayor and
Council prior to the passage of the annual appropriation ordinance;
      (4)   He or she shall serve as public relations officer of the city
government, and in that capacity shall endeavor to investigate and adjust all
complaints filed against any employee, department, division, or service thereof
and cooperate with all community organizations whose aim and purpose is to
advance the best interests of the city and its people and to attend meetings of
those organizations if in the judgment of the Administrator that attendance is
necessary and desirable;
      (5)   He or she shall attend all meetings of the Council with the duty of
reporting any matter concerning city affairs under his or her supervision or
direction and shall attend such other meetings of the city departments and
officials as his or her duties may require;
      (6)   He or she shall analyze the functions, duties, and activities of
the various departments, divisions, and services of the city government and of
all employees thereof, and shall make his or her recommendations regarding the
same to the Mayor and Council;
      (7)   He or she shall carry out the Mayor and Council’s recommendations
in coordinating the administrative functions and operations of the various
departments;
      (8)   He or she shall procure facts and submit long-range improvements to
the Mayor and Council;
      (9)   The City Administrator, with approval of the Mayor, may appoint and
dismiss department heads and all subordinate employees of the city, as well as
provide for the transfer of such employees from one department to another;
      (10)   He or she shall administer and be responsible for all departments
and divisions of the city government which are under the Mayor’s and Council’s
direction, including the Board of Public Works and any public utilities
hereafter acquired by the city, and including Fire and Police Departments. The
office of the City Attorney and City Physician shall not come under the
administration and responsibility of the City Administrator; the Administrator,
however, shall be available to assist these offices in any administrative
matter that may arise, and those officers in turn shall be available to assist
the City Administrator in the discharge of his or her duties;
      (11)   He or she shall recommend to the Mayor and Council for adoption
such measures and ordinances as are deemed necessary or expedient;
      (12)   He or she shall prepare and recommend to the Compensation
Committee a classification and compensation plan;
      (13)   He or she shall make investigations into the affairs of the city
and any department or division thereof, and any contract, or the proper
performance of any obligation pertaining to the city;
      (14)   He or she shall exercise general supervision over all public
buildings, streets, and other public property which are under the control and
jurisdiction of the Mayor and Council;
      (15)   He or she shall prepare and submit to the Mayor and Council, as of
the end of the fiscal year, a complete report on the finances and
administrative activities of the city for the preceding year;
      (16)   He or she shall keep the insurable property of the city
appropriately insured;
      (17)   He or she shall serve in any appointed office or head of
department within the city government if the need arises and when appointed
thereto by the Mayor and Council, and shall hold and perform the duties thereof
at the pleasure of the Mayor and Council;
      (18)   The City Administrator shall have the duty to keep open his or her
office for public affairs during days and hours set by the Mayor and Council;
and
      (19)   He or she shall perform those other duties and exercise those
other powers as may be delegated to him or her from time to time by ordinances
or resolutions of the Mayor and Council.
   (C)   The salary of the City Administrator shall be fixed by resolution of
the Council, payable monthly.
   (D)   The City Administrator, in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
have the right to expend an amount not to exceed the limits set forth in the
applicable state law, pertaining to cities of the second class, entering into
contracts for municipal work and improvements or purchase of equipment without
advertising for bids and within that dollar limitation to make any contract on
behalf of the municipality for general purchases, maintenance, and
improvements; the expenditure limitations herein to apply to all departments of
the city.
   (E)   The City Administrator may be removed by a vote of a majority of all
the members of the Council with the approval of the Mayor.
(1992 Code, § 1-205)
§ 31.04 MERGER OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR WITH OTHER OFFICES.
   The appointed offices of City Administrator and Zoning Administrator are
hereby combined and merged.
(1992 Code, § 1-207) (Am. Ord. 744, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 31.05 (RESERVED).
§ 31.06 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   (1)   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances
and shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the City Council,
provided that after the period of time specified by the State Records
Administrator pursuant to Neb. RS 84-1201 to 84-1220, the Clerk may transfer
the journal of the proceedings of the City Council to the State Archives of the
Nebraska State Historical Society for permanent preservation.
      (2)   The Clerk shall also keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the city, showing the number and amount of each, for and to whom the bonds were
issued, and when any bonds are purchased or paid or canceled, the record shall
show the fact. In his or her annual report, the Clerk shall describe
particularly the bonds issued and sold during the year and the terms of sale,
with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Clerk shall also perform such other duties as may be required
by the ordinances of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the City Council within 30 days after any meeting of
the Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim,
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is
published in the city, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
city is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general funds
of the city.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy city public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal,
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to Neb. RS 84-
1201 through 84-1220, provided the provisions of this division shall not apply
to the minutes of the Clerk and the permanent ordinance and resolution books,
or any other record classified as permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the city kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the city as may be entitled to the use of the same,
but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to Neb. RS
84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including
a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at the expense
of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions
and ordinances relating to the same. Included in his or her records shall be
all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents incorporated by
reference . He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest all warrants
ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor's signature to
all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the city ordinances. He or she
shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some other
city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the city and the purpose for which they
have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the City
Council or under the ordinances of the city. To each of the file copies of the
notices shall be attached the printer's affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk's certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the city, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or in
whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney by
letter within 5 days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then prepare
transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper cases.
(1992 Code, § 1-203) (Am. Ord. 471, passed 12-7-1993)
§ 31.07 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging to
the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation
and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give every person
paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of
payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of such
receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the end of
every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk's office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or her
account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor may use this failure as cause to
remove the Treasurer from office.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
following the close of the city fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures by funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in 1 legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in 1 legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS. 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons,
warrants, and other evidences of debt against the city, whenever paid by him or
her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, "Paid by the City Treasurer,"
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect
all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several owners, and
obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of
delinquent taxes.
(1992 Code, §§ 1-204, 1-208, and 1-209)
§ 31.08 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City Council. He
or she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits and actions necessary to
be commenced, prosecuted, or defended on behalf of the city, or that may be
ordered by the Council. When requested, he or she shall attend meetings of the
Council and give them his or her opinion upon any matters submitted to him or
her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or she shall draft or
review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts, franchises, and other
instruments as may be required, and he or she shall perform such other duties
as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or ordinance. The Council
shall have the right to pay the City Attorney compensation for legal services
performed by him or her for it on such terms as the Council and Attorney may
agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and to pay for such legal
assistance out of the funds of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The City Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by the
City Council, the ordinance records and advise and assist the City Clerk as
much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in
the passage of each ordinance to insure that it will be a valid and subsisting
local law in so far as its passage and approval are concerned.
(1992 Code, § 1-210)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-610
§ 31.09 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall direct the police work of the city and shall be
responsible for the maintenance of law and order. Unless the Mayor and City
Council provide otherwise, he or she shall act as Health Inspector and Building
Inspector, except in the event the city appoints another person.
   (B)   If the city has an agreement with the County Sheriff for law
enforcement purposes, the County Sheriff shall have all the powers and duties
of the Police Chief and city police officers as specified in the agreement.
(Neb. RS 17-107 and 17-121) (1992 Code, § 1-212)
§ 31.10 CITY POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the Council, shall appoint
such a number of regular police officers as may be necessary. All police
officers appointed by the Mayor and Council may be removed, demoted, or
suspended at any time by the Mayor as provided in division (A)(2) of this
section. A police officer, including the Chief of Police, may appeal to the
City Council such removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay. After a
hearing, the City Council may uphold, reverse, or modify the action.
      (2)   The City Council shall by ordinance adopt rules and regulations
governing the removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay of any
police officer, including the Chief of Police. The ordinance shall include a
procedure for such removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay of any
police officer, including the Chief of Police, upon the written accusation of
the Police Chief, the Mayor, or any citizen or taxpayer. The City Council shall
establish by ordinance procedures for acting upon such written accusation, in
accordance with Neb. RS 17-107. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer
by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this section,
in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or disobedience of orders.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a police officer during his or her
probationary period.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   The City Council may establish a law enforcement reserve force.
Members of such force shall be appointed at the discretion of the Council. The
Council may limit the size of such reserve force.
(Neb. RS 81-1438) (1992 Code, § 1-213) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on law enforcement reserve force, see Neb. RS 81-1439
through 81-1446
§ 31.11 CITY FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire Department. He or
she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of fires, the
storage and use of explosives and flammable substances, the installation of
fire alarm systems, the maintenance of fire extinguishing equipment, the
regulation of fire escapes, and the inspection of all premises requiring
adequate fire escapes.
(1992 Code, § 1-214) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire department provisions, see § 32.35 et seq.
§ 31.12 CITY ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Engineer shall, when requested by the Mayor or City
Council, make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or
furnished by contract with the city and make all surveys, estimates, and
calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant, public
heating system, bridges, curbing, and gutters, the improvement of streets, and
the erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the
City Council may require.
      (2)   When the city has appointed a Board of Public Works and the Mayor
and City Council have by ordinance so authorized, the Board may utilize its own
engineering staff and may hire consulting engineers for the design and
installation of extensions and improvements of the works under the jurisdiction
of the Board.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council may, when they deem it expedient, employ a
special engineer to make, or assist in making, any estimate necessary or to
perform any other duty provided for in Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by
such special engineer shall have the same validity and serve in all respects as
though executed by the City Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)   
   (C)   The City Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the city and, when directed by the Mayor and
City Council, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles, and maps as
may be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the city and be turned over to his or her successor.
(1992 Code, §§ 1-215 and 1-216)
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 17-405
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-150 and 17-919
§ 31.13 CITY PHYSICIAN.
   The City Physician shall be a member of the Board of Health of the city and
perform the duties devolving upon the position as the medical advisor of that
Board. The City Physician shall receive as compensation for services that sum
as the City Council may from time to time set. He or she shall receive no
compensation for services as a member of the City Board of Health.
(1992 Code, § 1-211)
Statutory reference:
   Board of Health created, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 31.14 (RESERVED).
§ 31.15 CITY WATER AND WASTEWATER SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Water and Wastewater Superintendent shall have immediate control
over the Water Department, the Sewer Department, and such other duties and
posts as the City Council shall deem necessary.
   (B)   The Water and Wastewater Superintendent’s duties over the following
departments shall be as stated herein.
      (1)   Water Department. He or she shall have general supervision and
control over the city water system, and shall be primarily responsible for its
economic operation and prudent management. Included in that water system shall
be the water plant, the pump house, all machinery, and appliances used in
connection with producing and distributing water to inhabitants of the city.
All actions, decisions, and procedures of the Water and Wastewater
Superintendent shall be subject to the general directives and control of the
Board of Public Works. The Water and Wastewater Superintendent shall have the
general control and supervisory authority over all employees of the water
system which the Board of Public Works may from time to time hire to operate
and maintain the system. The Utility Clerk shall collect all money received by
the city on account of the system of waterworks, and shall faithfully account
for and pay over to the city all such money collected in the name of the city
and receive a receipt from the City Treasurer for the depository evidence of
his or her faithful discharge of this duty. This receipt shall then be filed
with the City Clerk, and the second copy shall be kept by the Superintendent.
He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council at least once every
6 months of the condition of the water system, of all mains, pipes, hydrants,
reservoirs, and machinery, and such improvements, repairs, and extensions
thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall show the amount of
receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the preceding 6 months. No
money shall be expended for improvements, repairs, or extensions of the
waterworks system except upon the recommendation of the Superintendent. The
Water and Wastewater Superintendent shall provide a bond conditioned upon the
faithful discharge of his or her duties which shall amount to not less than the
amount set by resolution of the City Council and on file in the office of the
City Clerk. He or she shall perform such additional duties as may be prescribed
by the City Council.
      (2)   Sewer Department. The Water and Wastewater Superintendent shall
have the immediate control and supervision over all the employees and property
that make up the city sewer system, subject to the general control and
directives of the Board of Public Works. He or she shall at least every 6
months make a detailed report to the City Council on the condition of the sewer
system and shall direct their attention to such improvements, repairs,
extensions, additions, and additional employees as he or she may believe are
needed along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall have such
other duties as the Board of Public Works may delegate to him or her. He or she
shall issue permits for all connections to the city sewer system, and inspect
and supervise all repairs made to that system.
(1992 Code, § 1-218)
§ 31.16 (RESERVED).
§ 31.17 BUILDING/ZONING INSPECTOR.
   The City Building Inspector may conduct surveys and make inspections in any
area of the city to determine whether buildings and structures are in
compliance with the city ordinances. He or she shall investigate all
complaints, whether they are verbal, written, or in the form of a petition,
alleging and charging that a violation of the city ordinances exists, or that a
building or structure is unfit or unsafe for human habitation. He or she shall
keep records of all complaints received, inspection reports, orders, and
complaints issued. The records shall be available for public inspection.
(1992 Code, § 1-219)
§ 31.18 DEPUTY CITY CLERK.
   The city shall hire a Deputy City Clerk who shall assist the City Clerk in
the performance of his or her duties. In the absence of the City Clerk as
determined by the Mayor, or in the absence of the Mayor by the President of the
City Council, the Deputy City Clerk shall perform the City Clerk-related duties
of the City Clerk as set by statute, ordinance, and resolution. The Deputy City
Clerk is authorized under the direction of the Mayor, or in the absence of the
Mayor by the President of the City Council, to fulfill the role of Deputy City
Treasurer as needed.
(Ord. 788, passed 2-16-2021; Am. Ord. 788, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 31.19 DEPUTY CITY TREASURER.
   The city shall hire a Deputy City Treasurer who shall assist the City
Treasurer in the performance of his or her duties. In the absence of the City
Treasurer as determined by the Mayor, or in the absence of the Mayor by the
President of the City Council, the Deputy City Treasurer shall perform the City
Treasurer-related duties of the City Treasurer as set by statute, ordinance,
and resolution. The Deputy City Treasurer is authorized under the direction of
the Mayor, or in the absence of the Mayor by the President of the City Council,
to fulfill the role of Deputy City Clerk as needed.
(Ord. 788, passed 2-16-2021; Am. Ord. 788, passed 5-15-2024)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Boards and Commissions
   
32.001   Library Board
   
32.002   Planning Commission
   
32.003   Board of Adjustment
   
32.004   Board of Health
   
32.005   Board of Public Works
   
32.006   Cemetery Board
   
32.007   Housing Agency Board
   
32.008   Airport Authority Board
Community Redevelopment Authority
   
32.009   Creation
   
32.010   Community development law
   
32.011   Members
   
32.012   Officers
   
32.013   Rules and records
   
32.014   Director
   
32.015   Funds
Economic Development Program; Citizen Advisory Review Committee
   
32.020   Findings
   
32.021   Program adoption; amendment; duration
   
32.022   Committee established; organization
   
32.023   Economic Development Fund
   
32.024   Bonds
   
32.025   Sales and real estate tax
   
32.026   State law applies
Utility Departments
   
32.040   Water Department; operation and funding
   
32.041   Sewer Department; operation and funding
   
32.042   Electrical Department; operation
Fire Department
   
32.055   Organization
   
32.056   Fire Chief; appointment and removal
   
32.057   Officers; duties
   
32.058   Department apparatus and equipment; control and care
   
32.059   Membership; vacancies
   
32.060   Control of Department
   
32.061   Inspection of premises; correction of violations
   
32.062   Fire investigations; report
   
32.063   Department records; inventory
   
32.064   Authority at fires
   
32.065   Expenditures
   
32.066   Regulation of traffic at fires
   
32.067   Interference with equipment prohibited
   
32.068   Fire drills; right of way; service outside city
   
32.069   Reasonable fees for fire protection services
Police Department
   
32.080   Establishment; duties
   
32.081   Arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
   
32.082   Police Chief and officers; discipline or removal from duty
   
32.083   Badges
Cross-reference:
   Meetings, see §§
33.01 et seq.
   Tree Board; Trees, see
Chapter 96
**** BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS ****
§ 32.001 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   When the City Council has decided by ordinance to establish and
maintain a public library and reading room under Neb. RS 51 201 to 51 219, and
except as otherwise provided by the Council pursuant to Neb. RS 51 202, the
Library Board shall have 5 appointed members who shall be residents of the city
and county and who shall serve terms of 4 years. The Board members shall be
appointed by a majority vote of the members of the City Council. Neither the
Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall be a member of the Library
Board. The terms of members serving on the effective date of a change in the
number of members shall not be shortened, and any successors to those members
shall be appointed as the terms of those members expire. In cases of vacancies
by resignation, removal, or otherwise, the City Council shall fill the vacancy
for the unexpired term. No member shall receive any pay or compensation for any
services rendered as a member of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-202)
   (B)   (1)   The members of the Library Board shall immediately after their
appointment meet and organize by electing from their number a president, a
secretary, and such other officers as may be necessary. A majority of the
members of the Library Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(Neb. RS 51-204)
      (2)   No member of the Board shall serve in the capacity of both the
president and secretary of the Board. It shall be the duty of the secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the
same with the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at
any reasonable time.
      (3)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the president or a majority of
the members of the Board.
(1992 Code, § 2-101) (Am. Ord. 705, passed 1-21-2014)
Cross-reference:
   City Library, see §§ 90.01 et seq.
§ 32.002 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant
to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., the Planning Commission shall consist of 5, 7, or 9
regular members, as specified by the City Council by ordinance, who shall
represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or occupations in
the city and shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the approval of a
majority vote of the members elected to the City Council. Two of the regular
members may be residents of the area over which the city is authorized to
exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation. When there are 500
residents in the area over which the city exercises extraterritorial zoning and
subdivision regulation, 1 regular member of the Commission shall be a resident
from such area. If it is determined by the City Council that 500 residents
reside in the area subject to extraterritorial zoning or subdivision
regulation, and no such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the
first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of
such an individual. A number of commissioners equal to a majority of the number
of regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of any business. All regular members of the Commission shall
serve without compensation and shall hold no other city office except when
appointed to serve on the Board of Adjustment as provided in Neb. RS 19-908.
The term of each regular member shall be 3 years, except that 1/3 or fewer of
the regular members of the first commission to be so appointed shall serve for
terms of 1 year, 1/3 or fewer for terms of 2 years, and the remaining members
for terms of 3 years. All regular members shall hold office until their
successors are appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the
Council, be removed by the Mayor with the consent of a majority vote of the
members elected to the Council for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or
malfeasance in office or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term by the Mayor. If a Commission member has been absent from
more than 3 consecutive regular meetings and none of the absences have been
excused by a majority vote of the remaining members, the City Clerk shall
include this as an item on the agenda for the next regular Planning Commission
meeting. At that meeting, the member shall have the right to present
information on why 1 or more of the absences should be excused. If the Planning
Commission does not excuse 1 or more of the member's absences by a majority
vote, there shall be a vacancy on the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The Mayor may, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the Council, appoint 1 alternate member to the Planning Commission.
The alternate member shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other
city office. The term of the alternate member shall be 3 years, and he or she
shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed and approved. The
alternate member may be removed from office in the same manner as a regular
member. If the alternate member position becomes vacant other than through the
expiration of the term, the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion
of the term by the Mayor with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the Council. The alternate member may attend any meeting and may
serve as a voting and participating member of the Commission at any time when
less than the full number of regular Commission members is present and capable
of voting.
(Neb. RS 19-926)
   (B)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be 1 year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least 1 regular meeting in each calendar quarter,
except the City Council may require the Commission to meet more frequently and
the Chairperson of the Commission may call for a meeting when necessary to deal
with business pending before the Commission. The Commission shall adopt rules
and regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations, which shall be a
public record.
(Neb. RS 19-927)
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the City
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The City Council may provide the funds, equipment, and accommodations
necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures of the
Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for
that purpose by the Council; and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
(Neb. RS 19-928)
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-930 to 19-933, the
Planning Commission shall:
            (i)   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
city, including any areas outside its boundaries which in the Commission's
judgment bear relation to the planning of such city and including a
comprehensive development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
            (ii)   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes, and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested city departments; and
            (iii)   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies,
public utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions, and citizens
with relation to the promulgation and implementation of the comprehensive
development plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
commission, make preliminary reports on its findings, and hold public hearings
before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The City Council shall not take final action on matters relating
to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building codes,
subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning until it has
received the recommendation of the Planning Commission, provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
City Council within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter or within such other number of days as the City Council has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks,
if the City Council has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to Neb. RS
19-916.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the City Council, in
its own name (i) make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies,
(ii) receive contributions, bequests, gifts, or grant funds from public or
private sources, (iii) expend the funds appropriated to it by the city, (iv)
employ agents and employees, and (v) acquire, hold, and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration,
or reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the City Council
has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally authorized the
Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the standards and
procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and judiciously granting
such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting of a conditional use
permit or special exception shall only allow property owners to put their
property to a special use if it is among those uses specifically identified in
the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses which may require special
conditions or requirements to be met by the owners before a use permit or
building permit is authorized.
      (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall be
the exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the City Council may
choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The Council may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards and
procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a manner
that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
      (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or Council regarding a
conditional use or special exception shall be made to the district court.
(Neb. RS 19-929) (1992 Code, § 2-103) (Am. Ord. 449, passed 12-1-1992; Am. Ord.
477, passed 7-19-1994; Am. Ord. 505, passed 11-21-1995; Am. Ord. 751, passed 9-
12-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on planning commissions, see Neb. RS 19-924 through 19-933
§ 32.003 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., except as provided in division (B), the Council shall
provide for the appointment of a Board of Adjustment. Any actions taken by the
Board of Adjustment shall not exceed the powers granted by division (F).
(Neb. RS 19-907)
   (B)   If the county has adopted a comprehensive development plan, as defined
by Neb. RS 23-114.02, and is enforcing zoning regulations based upon such a
plan, the zoning board of adjustment of the county shall, upon request of the
City Council, serve as the zoning Board of Adjustment for the city. If the city
is located in more than one county, it shall be served by request or otherwise
only by the county zoning board of adjustment of the county in which the
greatest area of the city is located, and the jurisdiction of such county
zoning board of adjustment shall include all portions of the city and its area
of extraterritorial control, regardless of county lines.
(Neb. RS 19-912.01)
   (C)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of 5 regular members, plus
1 additional member designated as an alternate who shall attend and serve only
when 1 of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason, each to be
appointed for a term of 3 years and removable for cause by the appointing
authority upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies shall be
filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant. One
member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the membership
of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the Planning
Commission by such member shall also result in his or her immediate loss of
membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another Planning
Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. The first vacancy occurring on the
Board of Adjustment shall be filled by the appointment of a person who resides
in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city at such time as more
than 200 persons reside within such area if the Board does not already include
such a person. Thereafter, at all times, at least 1 member of the Board of
Adjustment shall reside outside of the corporate boundaries of the city but
within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of any ordinance adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-914.
Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. Such
Chairperson, or in his or her absence the Acting Chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall
be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall be a public record.
(Neb. RS 19-908)
   (D)   (1)   A number of members equal to a majority of the number of regular
members appointed to the Board of Adjustment shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. All members of an appointed Board of Adjustment
shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other city office except for
the member of the Planning Commission appointed to serve on the Board of
Adjustment. No member of the Board of Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of
both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the City
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
      (2)   If a Board member has been absent from more than 3 consecutive
regular meetings and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote
of the remaining members, the City Clerk shall include this as an item on the
agenda for the next regular Board of Adjustment meeting. At that meeting, the
member shall have the right to present information on why 1 or more of the
absences should be excused. If the Board of Adjustment does not excuse 1 or
more of the member's absences by a majority vote, there shall be a vacancy on
the Board of Adjustment.
   (E)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected
by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken
within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with
the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board of Adjustment a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from whom the
appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. An
appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless
the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of Adjustment,
after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board
of Adjustment or by a court of record on application on notice to the officer
from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board of Adjustment
shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice
thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any party may appear in person or by
agent or by attorney.
(Neb. RS 19-909)
   (F)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall, subject to such appropriate
conditions and safeguards as may be established by the City Council, have only
the following powers:
      (a)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures, except
that the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions made
by the City Council or Planning Commission regarding a conditional use or
special exception under Neb. RS 19-929(3);
      (b)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any zoning
regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
      (c)   When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of
a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any enacted regulation under Neb. RS 19-901 and 19-
903 to 19-904.01 and divisions (C) and (F) would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships upon
the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the
property, a variance from such strict application so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and
purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
      (2)   (a)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it
finds that:
            (i)   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
            (ii)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in
the same zoning district and the same vicinity;
            (iii)   The authorization of such variance will not be of
substantial detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district
will not be changed by the granting of the variance; and
            (iv)   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit, or caprice.
         (b)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
      (3)   In exercising the powers granted in this division (F), the Board
may, in conformity with Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-915, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination
appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision, or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of 4 members of the board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of any such administrative official or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such
regulation or to effect any variation in such regulation.
(Neb. RS 19-910)
   (G)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision
of the Board of Adjustment, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board,
or bureau of the city, may present to the district court a petition duly
verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, and
specifying the grounds of such illegality. Such petition must be presented to
the court within 15 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
board. Upon the filing of such petition a summons shall be issued and be served
upon the Board of Adjustment, together with a copy of the petition. Return of
service shall be made within 4 days after the issuance of the summons. Within
10 days after the return day of such summons, the Board of Adjustment shall
file an answer to the petition which shall admit or deny the substantial
averments of the petition and shall state the contentions of the Board with
reference to the matters in dispute as disclosed by the petition. The answer
shall be verified in like manner as required for the petition. At the
expiration of the time for filing answer, the court shall proceed to hear and
determine the cause without delay and shall render judgment thereon according
to the forms of law. If, upon the hearing, it appears to the court that
testimony is necessary for the proper disposition of the matter, it may take
evidence or appoint a referee to take such evidence as it may direct and report
the same to the court with his or her findings of fact and conclusions of law,
which shall constitute a part of the proceedings upon which the determination
of the court shall be made. The court may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly,
or may modify the decision brought up for review. The appeal to the district
court shall not stay proceedings upon the decision appealed from, but the court
may, on application, on notice to the Board and on due cause shown, grant a
restraining order. Any appeal from such judgment of the district court shall be
prosecuted in accordance with the general laws of the state regulating appeals
in actions at law.
(Neb. RS 19-912)
(1992 Code, § 2-105) (Am. Ord. 751, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 32.004 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   A Board of Health is created consisting of 4 members: The Mayor, who
shall serve as chairperson, the President of the City Council, and 2 other
members appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council. One member
shall be a physician or health care provider, if 1 can be found who is willing
to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if appointed, shall be the
Board's medical advisor. If the Mayor has appointed a Chief of Police, the
Chief of Police shall serve on the Board as secretary and quarantine officer.
   (B)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation
and, except for the Mayor, President of the Council, and Chief of Police, shall
serve a 1-year term of office, unless reappointed. The Board shall reorganize
at the first meeting each year after the annual appointments are made. No
member of the Board shall hold more than 1 position on the Board.
   (C)   The secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be available
for public inspection during office hours. The Board of Health shall be funded
by the City Council from time to time out of the general fund. The Board shall
meet at such times as the City Council may designate. Special meetings may be
held upon the call of the chairperson or any 2 members of the Board.
   (D)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and shall
enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full force and effect of law,
to safeguard the health of the people of the city, may enforce them, and may
provide fines and punishments for the violation thereof. The Board shall have
power to and shall make all needful rules and regulations relating to matters
of sanitation of the city. It may regulate, suppress, and prevent the
occurrence of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the
city relating to nuisances or to matters of sanitation of the city. The Board
shall also have control of hospitals, dispensaries, places for treatment of
sick, and matters relating to the same under such restrictions and provisions
as may be provided by ordinance of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-121)
(1992 Code, § 2-106)
Cross-reference:
   Health and Safety, see
Chapter 93
§ 32.005 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   The Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council, shall appoint
the Board of Public Works. The Board shall consist of 5 members who are
residents of the city. The members of the Board shall serve a 4-year term of
office, at a salary set by ordinance of the City Council. No member of the
Board shall ever be financially interested in a contract entered into by the
Board on behalf of the city for more than $10,000 in 1 year. The members of the
Board shall be required to take an oath to faithfully perform the duties of
their office before entering upon the discharge thereof. At the time of the
Board’s first meeting in June of each year, the Board members shall organize by
selecting from among their number a chairperson, a vice chairperson, and a
secretary. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the City Clerk
where they shall be available for public inspection at any time. The minutes of
each meeting shall be published in a legal newspaper of general circulation in
the city within 30 days after it is held. The Board shall meet at such times as
the City Council may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of
the chairperson, or any 3 members of the Board. A majority of the Board members
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. It shall be the duty
of the Board to operate any utility owned by the city and to exercise all
powers conferred by law upon the city for the operation of utilities to the
same extent as the City Council, except that the Board shall not make an
expenditure other than ordinary operational expenses exceeding the amount of
$25,000 without first obtaining the approval of the City Council. The Board
may, in its discretion, employ a commissioner to operate 1 or more of the city
utilities and who shall be under the immediate authority of the Board of Public
Works. All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision
of the City Council. The Board shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such other duties as the City Council may, from time to time,
designate. No member of the City Council shall serve as a member of the Board
of Public Works while serving a term of office as a member of the City Council.
No member of the Board of Public Works shall serve in the capacity of both the
chairperson and secretary of the Board.
   (B)   Each member of the Board of Public Works shall receive a salary as
determined by the City Council to be paid from funds arising out of the
operation of any of the utilities directed and supervised by the Board.
   (C)   If a Board member has been absent from more than 3 consecutive regular
meetings and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the
remaining members, the City Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda
for the next regular Board of Public Works meeting.
   (D)   At that meeting, the member shall have the right to present
information on why 1 or more of the absences should be excused. If the Board of
Public Works does not excuse 1 or more of the member's absences by a majority
vote, there shall be a vacancy on the Board of Public Works.
   (E)   If a Board member has been absent from more than 4 regular meetings in
a calendar year, there shall be a vacancy on the Board of Public Works.
(Neb. RS 17-801 through 17-808 and 17-810) (1992 Code, § 2-107) (Am. Ord. 751,
passed 9-12-2017; Am. Ord. 756, passed 12-19-17)
§ 32.006 CEMETERY BOARD.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint the
Cemetery Board which shall consist of 6 members who are residents of the city
and who shall serve without compensation for a term of 3 years. Two members
shall be appointed each year and may be required, in the discretion of the City
Council, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the City Council and
conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties. The Board shall
organize by selecting from its membership a chairperson and secretary. The
secretary shall keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings
and file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. A majority of Board members shall constitute
a quorum for the purpose of doing business. The Board shall meet at such times
as the Board may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
chairperson or any 3 members of the Board. The Board shall have the general
care, management, and supervision of the City Cemetery with the power and
authority to limit and regulate the number of cemetery lots that may be owned
by the same person; to prescribe rules for enclosing, adorning, and erecting
monuments and tombstones on cemetery lots; and to prohibit any diverse or
improper use thereof; provided, no religious tests shall be made as to the
ownership of lots, the burial therein, and the ornamentation of graves. The
Board shall pass rules and regulations for the proper use of the Cemetery and
prescribe penalties and fines for violations thereof. The Board shall use all
revenue received from the sale of lots, gifts, or by devise for the care,
management, and administration of the Cemetery. All actions of the Board shall
be subject to the review and supervision of the City Council and it shall be
responsible for making such reports as the City Council may designate. No
member of the City Council shall serve as a member of the Board while serving a
term of office as a member of the City Council. No member of the Cemetery Board
shall hold more than 1 Cemetery Board office.
   (B)   If a Board member has been absent from more than 3 consecutive regular
meetings and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the
remaining members, the City Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda
for the next regular Cemetery Board meeting.
   (C)   At that meeting, the member shall have the right to present
information on why 1 or more of the absences should be excused. If the Cemetery
Board does not excuse 1 or more of the member's absences by a majority vote,
there shall be a vacancy on the Cemetery Board.
(Neb. RS 12-401 through 12-403) (1992 Code, § 2-104) (Am. Ord. 751, passed 9-
12-2017)
Cross-reference:
   Cemetery, see
Chapter 91
§ 32.007 HOUSING AGENCY BOARD.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint at least 7 no more than 9 persons who shall
constitute the Housing Agency who are residents of the city and such persons
shall be called the Commissioners. The appointment shall be referred to the
City Council for confirmation or denial, and the City Council shall confirm or
deny the appointment or reappointment. Each Commissioner shall serve a term of
5 years or until his or her successor is duly appointed; provided, that all
vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. The Commissioners now
serving shall continue to serve for their unexpired term. The 2 additional
Commissioners shall be appointed, 1 to serve for a term of 4 years and the
other additional Commissioner to serve for a term of 5 years from the date of
his or her appointment, but thereafter the Commissioners shall be appointed for
terms of 5 years. A vacancy shall be filled for in the same manner as the
Commissioner whose position has become vacant was appointed. A certificate of
the appointment or reappointment of any Commissioner shall be filed with the
City Clerk and such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the proper
appointment of such Commissioner. The City Council may appoint 1 of its members
to serve as 1 of the Commissioners for such term as the governing body may
determine. It shall not be considered a conflict of interest if such person
appointed as a Commissioner votes on any matter involving the city. In the
event that the City Council intends that a Commissioner’s appointment is made
with the intention that such Commissioner represents the city, then his or her
certificate of appointment shall so state. In the event that any Commissioner
so appointed shall cease to serve as a member of the City Council, then his or
her term of office as a Commissioner shall automatically terminate and a
successor shall be appointed to fill the vacancy in the same manner as his or
her predecessor was appointed. At least 1 Commissioner shall be known as a
Resident Commissioner who shall be a member of the governing board of the local
housing agency whose eligibility for membership is based upon such person’s
status as a resident of a facility operated by the Housing Agency. Thirty days
after any vacancy in the office of a Resident Commissioner, the Housing Agency
shall notify the Resident Advisory Board or other resident organization and all
adult persons residing in a facility that the position of Resident Commissioner
is open and that if any person is interested in being considered as a candidate
for the position, such person should notify the Housing Agency in writing
within 30 days of the notice of his or her willingness to be considered to
serve in the position. The names of all persons interested who have notified
the Housing Agency of their interest in so serving shall be forwarded to the
Mayor and the Resident Commissioner shall be appointed from the list of names,
subject to confirmation by the City Council. If the Housing Agency owns less
than 300 housing units and the Housing Agency has received no notification of a
resident’s interest in serving as a Resident Commissioner, no Resident
Commissioner shall be required to be selected.
   (B)   A Commissioner may be removed by the Mayor for neglect of duty,
misconduct in office or conviction of any felony. A notice of removal shall be
sent to such Commissioner, which notice shall set forth the charges against him
or her. Unless within 10 days of the receipt of such notice, the Commissioner
files with the City Clerk a request for a hearing before City Council, the
Commissioner shall be deemed removed from office. If a request for hearing is
filed, the City Council shall hold a hearing not sooner than 10 days after the
date a hearing is requested, at which hearing the Commissioner shall have the
right to appear in person or by counsel and the City Council shall determine
whether the removal shall be upheld. If the removal is not upheld by the City
Council, the Commissioner shall continue to hold his or her office. All actions
taken by the Board of Commissioners shall be presumed valid unless otherwise
shown by clear and convincing evidence. The Commissioners shall elect a
Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson from among the Commissioners and shall have
power to employ an executive director who shall serve as ex-officio secretary
of the Housing Agency. The Agency may also employ legal counsel or engage the
City Attorney for such legal services as the Agency may require unless such
employment or engagement will result in an ethical or legal violation. The
Agency may employ accountants, appraisers, technical experts, and such other
officers, agents, and employees as the Agency may require and shall determine
their qualifications, duties, compensation and terms of office. A local Housing
Agency may delegate to 1 or more of its agents or employees such powers and
duties as it may deem proper. A Commissioner shall receive no compensation for
his or her services but shall be entitled to reimbursement for necessary
expenses, including travel expenses, incurred in connection with the discharge
of his or her duties. The Housing Agency possesses all powers necessary,
convenient or desirable in carrying out the purposes of the Nebraska Housing
Agency Act, exercising any power provided in the Act and engaging in any
activity related to furthering the purposes of the Act. Such powers shall
include, but shall expressly not be limited to, have perpetual existence unless
terminated by proper authority as provided by law; to sue and subject to the
limitations, privileges and immunities provided by applicable law, be sued; to
adopt a seal and to alter such seal from time to time; to adopt, amend, repeal
and restate by-laws; to adopt, promulgate, and enforce rules and regulations
related to carrying out the purposes of the local Housing Agency and exercising
its powers and to amend or repeal such rules and regulations from time to time;
to enter into, execute and perform contracts, instruments, and agreements of
every kind and description within or without the area of its operations except
where otherwise expressly provided in furtherance of the purposes of the
Nebraska Housing Agency Act and in connection with the exercise of any of its
powers; to issue bonds and other debt instruments as provided by law and to
secure the repayment of such bonds and debt instruments as provided by law; to
enter into and perform interagency and intergovernmental agreements of every
kind and description; to act in consortium with, as agent or manager for, or
pursuant to agreement or contract with other housing agencies and all public
agencies to carry out the purposes of the Housing Authority Act and to exercise
any of its powers; to invest or cause to be invested any funds held as reserves
or sinking funds and any sums not required for immediate disbursement in
connection with the operations of the Agency, its developments and its programs
and property or securities in any manner allowable by law with the funds of the
State of Nebraska or any public agency of the state, except that if any funds
are pledged as security for a debt and the debt or security instrument
specifies the permitted investments, such debt or security instrument shall
control the permitted investment of such funds; to plan, prepare, carry out,
develop, construct, acquire, improve, reconstruct, renovate, rehabilitate,
enlarge, reduce, alter, manage, own, lease, and operate housing, housing
projects, or developments, or any portion of housing projects or other
developments, to finance the agency’s developments, operations, and other
activities in such manner, utilizing such public or private source or sources
of revenue, and employing such financing methods or techniques as the Housing
Agency deems appropriate; to maintain, repair and replace all housing
developments, or any portions thereof, and any facilities and improvements
contained therein or associated therewith; and to perform any acts not
prohibited by statute or law. A majority of Commissioners shall constitute a
quorum of the Agency for purposes of conducting its business, exercising its
powers, and for all other purposes. Actions may be taken by the Agency upon the
vote of a majority of the Commissioners present unless in any case the by-laws
of the Agency shall require a larger number. During his or her tenure, and for
one year thereafter, no Commissioner, officer or employee of the Housing Agency
shall voluntarily acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in any project or
in any property included or planned to be included in any project, or in any
contract or proposed contract relating to any housing project. If any
Commissioner, officer or employee involuntarily acquires such interest, or
voluntarily or involuntarily acquired any such interest prior to appointment or
employment as Commissioner, officer, or employee, he or she shall immediately
disclose the interest held in writing to the Agency, and such disclosure shall
be entered upon the minutes of the Agency, and he or she shall not participate
in any action by the Agency relating to the property or contract in which he or
she has an interest; provided, that nothing herein shall apply to the
acquisition of any interest in notes or bonds of the Agency issued in
conjunction with any housing project, or to the execution of Agreements by
banking institutions or deposit or handling of funds in connection with a
project or to act as trustee under any trust indenture, or to utility services,
the rates for which are fixed or controlled by a governmental agency.
   (C)   The Housing Agency shall keep an accurate account of all of its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to
the City Council on all such information not less than annually.
(Neb. RS 71-1524 through 71-1526 and 71-1552) (1992 Code, § 2-102) (Am. Ord.
628, passed 11-16-2011; Am. Ord. 740, passed 9-13-2016)
§ 32.008 AIRPORT AUTHORITY BOARD.
   The Airport Authority Board shall have the full and exclusive jurisdiction
and control over all facilities owned or hereafter acquired by the city for the
purpose of aviation operation, air navigation, and air safety operation. The
Board is a body corporate and politic, constituting a public corporation. The
Board shall consist of 5 members. Members of the Board shall be nominated and
elected in the manner provided by law for the election of other elected
officials and shall take office at the same time as the city officers at the
first meeting in December of each city election year. Members of the Board
shall be residents of the city and shall serve a term of 6 years. Two members
of the Board shall be elected in each city election year; provided, that in
each third election year, 1 member only shall be elected to the Airport
Authority Board. Any vacancy on the Board resulting from any other cause than
the expiration of a term of office shall be filled by temporary appointment by
the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, until a successor can be
elected at the next general city election to serve the unexpired portion of the
term. The Board shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by
state law.
(Neb. RS 3-501 through 3-514) (1992 Code, § 2-108)
**** COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY ****
§ 32.009 CREATION.
   The Community Redevelopment Authority of the City of Kimball, Nebraska (the
"Authority") is created, pursuant to the provisions of Neb. RS 18-2102.01.
(Ord. 776, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 32.010 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LAW.
   The Authority shall be vested with all the powers, duties and
responsibilities provided for in the Community Development Law, Neb. RS 18-2101
et seq. as may be amended from time to time. The Authority shall assume all
obligations of, and exercise all power and authority previously exercised by,
the City Council, acting as the Community Development Agency.
(Ord. 776, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 32.011 MEMBERS.
   The Authority shall be made up of five persons. The initial Members of the
Authority shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City
Council. The terms of office of the initial members shall be for 1 year, 2
years, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years, as designated by the Mayor. As the terms
of the initial members expire, the Mayor shall appoint or reappoint the members
with the approval of the City Council for 5-year terms, unless a vacancy is
being filled, in which case the appointment shall be for the remainder of the
term of the member being replaced. There shall be no limit on the number of
terms for which a member can be reappointed.
(Ord. 776, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 32.012 OFFICERS.
   The Authority shall organize by electing one of the members as Chairperson
of the Authority, and another of its members as Vice Chairperson.
(Ord. 776, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 32.013 RULES AND RECORDS.
   The Authority may adopt rules for the transaction of its business and shall
keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations,
which records shall be made available for public inspection during regular
business hours. No member of the Authority shall have any interest directly or
indirectly in any contract for property, materials, or services to be required
by the Authority.
(Ord. 776, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 32.014 DIRECTOR.
   The City Administrator or his or her designated representative shall serve
as the Director, and Ex Officio Secretary of the Authority. The Director shall
perform such duties as may be assigned by the Authority, including the
necessary administrative functions described in the statutes under which the
Authority has been created.
(Ord. 776, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 32.015 FUNDS.
   If budgeted by the City Council, the Authority may levy a tax in an amount
not to exceed the levy permitted by state law. All income, revenue, profits and
other funds received by the Authority shall be deposited with the City
Treasurer as Ex Officio Treasurer of the Authority without commingling such
money with any other money under his or her control and disbursed by him or her
by check or draft only upon warrants, orders or requisitions by the Chairperson
of the Authority or other person authorized by the Authority, which shall state
distinctly the purpose for which the same are drawn. A permanent record shall
be kept by the Authority of all warrants, orders or requisitions so drawn,
showing the date, amount, consideration and to whom payable.
(Ord. 776, passed 2-18-2020)
**** ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM; CITIZEN ADVISORY REVIEW COMMITTEE ****
§ 32.020 FINDINGS.
   The Mayor and Council of the city hereby find and determine as follows:
   (A)   There has previously been established an Economic Development Program
of the city pursuant to Ordinance 639, passed and approved by the Mayor and
City Council of the City of Kimball on October 3, 2007;
   (B)   By resolution adopted by the Mayor and City Council on February 25,
2010, an amendment to the Economic Development Plan was submitted to the voters
of the city and an election was held on May 11, 2010, with notice of such
election published in the Western Nebraska Observer, on March 25, April 22,
April 29 and May 6, 2010, (the “Amendment Proposition”) which voted amendment
provides in part for the levy of an annual real estate tax levy of up to 0.4%
of the taxable valuation of the city less other funds appropriated from local
tax sources for all economic development programs of the city, such limitation
being as provided in Neb. RS 18-2717, and for the addition of indirect
assistance to qualifying businesses in the city through one or more grants to
the Community Development Agency for its use in constructing and acquiring a
railroad spur to be located within an area designated as blighted and
substandard by the city to serve qualifying businesses within the city by
virtue of leasing the Rail Spur on a nonexclusive basis to the qualifying
businesses, and for funding such grant or grants by bonds issued by the city in
an amount of not to exceed $3,000,000 payable from the local property sources
available for the economic development program of the city;
   (C)   At such election, according to the report of the County Clerk
conducting such election, 430 voters voted in favor of the Amendment
Proposition and 355 voters voted against the Amendment Proposition; and
   (D)   More than a majority of the voters voting on the Amendment Proposition
voted in favor of the same and the city is authorized to amend its economic
development program in accordance with the Amendment Proposition.
(Ord. 557, passed 7-27-1998; Am. Ord. 639, passed 10-3-2007; Am. Ord. 662,
passed 5-19-2010)
§ 32.021 PROGRAM ADOPTION; AMENDMENT; DURATION.
   (A)   The Plan, in final form, is hereby approved and adopted. A copy of the
Plan is hereby directed to be annexed to Ordinance 557 as Exhibit A and is
hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference. The Mayor and Council hereby
establish the Economic Development Program of the city, which shall operate
under and be governed by the terms of the Plan and this subchapter.
   (B)   The Economic Development Program is hereby amended by the terms of
Resolution 2010-03 and the Amendment Proposition. The Economic Development
Program of the city shall operate under and be governed by the terms of the
Economic Development Plan and Ordinance 639, as amended by this section.
   (C)   The Economic Development Program is hereby amended by the terms of
Ordinance 749. The original Kimball Economic Development Plan shall remain in
effect with only such changes or modifications as provided in Ordinance 749
dated August 15, 2017.
   (D)   The Economic Development Program is hereby amended by the terms of
Ordinance 757. The original Kimball Economic Development Plan shall remain in
effect with only such changes or modifications as provided in Ordinance 757
dated December 19, 2017.
   (E)   The duration of this Program shall be from the October 1, 2008 to
September 30, 2031.
(Ord. 557, passed 7-27-1998; Am. Ord. 639, passed 10-3-2007; Am. Ord. 662,
passed 5-19-2010; Am. Ord. 749, passed 8-15-2017; Am. Ord. 757, passed 12-19-
2017; Am. Ord. 781, passed - -)
§ 32.022 COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED; ORGANIZATION.
   There are two committees established under the Economic Development Program.
The first is the Citizens Advisory Committee and the second is the Application
Review Committee. The Citizens Advisory Committee shall consist of not less
than five nor more than nine registered voters of the city and shall be
appointed by the Mayor subject to approval of the City Council. The Application
Review Committee shall be composed of five members to be appointed by the
Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council. The duties for each of the
committees shall be as set forth in the Economic Development Plan.
(Ord. 557, passed 7-27-1998; Am. Ord. 639, passed 10-3-2007; Am. Ord. 662,
passed 5-19-2010; Am. Ord. 781, passed - -)
§ 32.023 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   There is hereby established with the City Treasurer of the city a separate
economic development fund to be designated as the “City Economic Development
Fund.” Into this Fund there shall be deposited all funds derived from local
sources for the Economic Development Program hereby established, including the
½ cent local option sales tax and the real estate tax described in this
subchapter, and all other funds made available for such purposes.
(Ord. 557, passed 7-27-1998; Am. Ord. 639, passed 10-3-2007; Am. Ord. 662,
passed 5-19-2010)
§ 32.024 BONDS.
   In accordance with the Amendment Proposition, as approved by the voters, and
with applicable law, the city may issue bonds from time to time to provide
funds for the Economic Development Program hereby established, including for
such purpose as set forth in the Amendment Proposition. Such bonds may be
payable from any monies in Economic Development Fund, and the Mayor and Council
in issuing such bonds may provide for conditions and terms relating to the
priority of payment and payment from specific sources.
(Ord. 557, passed 7-27-1998; Am. Ord. 639, passed 10-3-2007; Am. Ord. 662,
passed 5-19-2010)
§ 32.025 SALES TAX.
   (A)   In accordance with the Amendment Proposition, Ordinance 639 and with
applicable law, the city may collect a ½ cent local option sales tax and levy
an annual real estate tax of up to 0.4% of the taxable valuation of the city
less other funds appropriated from local tax sources (including such ½ cent
local option sales tax) for all economic development programs of the city, such
limitation being as provided in Neb. RS 18-2717, to provide funds for the
Economic Development Program.
   (B)   Collection of funds for the Program shall be on all taxable sales
beginning on October 1, 2008 and shall end on September 30, 2023; and from a
levy of real estate taxes on all the taxable property within the city beginning
in the fiscal year 2010-2011 and ending at the expiration of the Program on
September 30, 2031.
(Ord. 557, passed 7-27-1998; Am. Ord. 639, passed 10-3-2007; Am. Ord. 662,
passed 5-19-2010)
§ 32.026 STATE LAW APPLIES.
   The Program hereby established shall be in accordance with and subject to
the terms of the Local Option Municipal Economic Development Act (Neb. RS 18-
2701 through 18-2738), as now or hereafter amended.
(Ord. 557, passed 7-27-1998; Am. Ord. 639, passed 10-3-2007)
**** UTILITY DEPARTMENTS ****
§ 32.040 WATER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and operates the Water Department through the City Council or
its authorized agent. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost
of the care, management, and maintenance of the Water Department, may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
taxable value of all taxable property within the corporate limits that is
subject to taxation. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the water fund
and shall remain in the custody of the City Treasurer. The Water and Wastewater
Superintendent shall have the direct management and control of the Water
Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of the office. The Board
of Public Works shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the
sanitary and efficient management of the department subject to the supervision
and review of the City Council. The Board of Public Works shall set the rates
to be charged for services rendered by resolution and shall file a copy of the
rates in the office of the City Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
(1992 Code, § 3-201)
Cross-reference:
   Water, see
Chapter 51
Statutory reference:
   Bonds, interest, and taxing authority, see Neb. RS 17-534
   Public utility extension and improvements, see Neb. RS 19-1305
   Waterworks acquisition and construction authorized, see Neb. RS 17-531
§ 32.041 SEWER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city owns and operates the city sewer system through the City
Council or its authorized agent.
   (B)   For the purpose of defraying the cost of the maintenance and repairing
of any sewer or water utilities in the city, the City Council may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
taxable value of all the taxable property in the city. The revenue from the tax
shall be known as the Sewer Maintenance Fund and shall be used exclusively for
the purpose of maintenance and repairs of the water and sewer system.
   (C)   The Water and Wastewater Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the Sewer Department, and shall faithfully carry out
the duties of the office. The Board of Public Works shall have the authority to
adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Department, subject to the supervision and review of the City Council. The
Board of Public Works shall set the rates to be charged for services rendered
and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the City Clerk for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
(1992 Code, § 3-301)
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see
Chapter 52
Statutory reference:
   Sewage and drainage districts; authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-149
   Taxing authority, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 32.042 ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT; OPERATION.
   The Electric System Distribution Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the City Electrical Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. The Board of Public Works shall have
the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the safe and efficient
management of the Electrical Department, subject to the supervision and review
of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-902 through 17-904, 17-906, and 17-909) (1992 Code, § 3-401)
Cross-reference:
   Electrical Department, see Chapter 53
**** FIRE DEPARTMENT ****
§ 32.055 ORGANIZATION.
   All volunteer fire companies which have been, or shall hereafter be,
organized according to law in this city shall constitute the City Volunteer
Fire Department, hereinafter “Fire Department.”
(1992 Code, § 3-801)
Departments, Boards, and Commissions   45
§ 32.056 FIRE CHIEF; APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL.
   The members of the Fire Department shall, at the time of each annual meeting
of the Department, recommend some person for the office of Chief of the Fire
Department (“Fire Chief”), who, on being confirmed by the Mayor and Council,
shall hold office until his or her successor shall be appointed and qualified.
The Fire Chief shall be subject to removal by the Mayor at any time.
(1992 Code, § 3-802)
§ 32.057 OFFICERS; DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department, the Assistant
Chief, or the Foreperson of any fire company lawfully acting in his or her
stead, in all cases of fire, to take and have control of all members of the
Fire Department and of all proper means for the extinguishment of fires, the
protection of property, the preservation of order at and in the vicinity of
fires, and to secure the observance of all regulations respecting fires.
(1992 Code, § 3-803)
§ 32.058 DEPARTMENT APPARATUS AND EQUIPMENT; CONTROL AND CARE.
   (A)   All apparatus and appliances for the extinguishment of fire belonging
to or used by this city shall be under the direct and immediate control of the
Chief of the Fire Department and of the several fire companies to which those
appliances have been delivered. No person shall, under any pretense whatsoever,
remove any of those appliances from the place or house where it is kept by its
respective company, except the members of that company, without the order of 1
of the properly authorized officers of the company, the Chief of the
Department, or someone authorized to act in his or her stead. It shall be the
duty of the fire companies to keep all apparatus and hose furnished by the city
in a serviceable and clean condition and in such a state as to be of immediate
use in case of fire.
(1992 Code, § 3-804)
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have the custody of all
apparatus and property used in fire protection either belonging to or used by
the city. He or she shall have authority to direct how it shall be cared for,
and shall be responsible for its safe and proper keeping.
(1992 Code, § 3-807)
§ 32.059 MEMBERSHIP; VACANCIES.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have authority to appoint members of
the Department as provided by law. The roster of members shall first be
submitted to the Mayor and Council, and shall be approved by them. All
vacancies that may occur in the membership shall be filled in the same manner.
(1992 Code, § 3-805)
§ 32.060 CONTROL OF DEPARTMENT.
   The exclusive control of the Fire Department, in all matters except
expenditures, shall be in the Chief of the Fire Department.
(1992 Code, § 3-806)
§ 32.061 INSPECTION OF PREMISES; CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department, when directed to
do so by the Mayor and Council, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire
Department officers, members, or some other officer of the city chosen by the
Mayor and Council, as often as may be necessary, but not less than twice a year
in outlying districts and 4 times a year in the closely built portions of the
city, all buildings, premises, and public thoroughfares, except the interiors
of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be
corrected any conditions liable to cause fire, or any violations of the
provisions or intent of this code affecting fire hazards. The Chief of the Fire
Department shall report in detail to the State Fire Commissioner the owners or
occupants of buildings or premises who shall fail or neglect to correct within
5 days any condition found by him or her upon inspection liable to cause fire.
(1992 Code, § 3-808)
§ 32.062 FIRE INVESTIGATIONS; REPORT.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall investigate the cause, origin, and
circumstances of every fire hereafter occurring in the city. The investigation
shall be begun within 2 days after the occurrence of the fire. The officer
making the investigation shall forthwith notify the State Fire Commissioner and
shall within 1 week of the occurrence of the fire furnish to the Fire
Commissioner a written report of all facts relating to the cause and origin of
the fire and such other information as may be called for by the blank provided
by the Fire Commissioner.
(1992 Code, § 3-809)
§ 32.063 DEPARTMENT RECORDS; INVENTORY.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall keep a list of all members of the
Fire Department, showing the nativity, age, and occupation of each, the date he
or she entered the service, and such other data as the Council may require. He
or she shall also keep a record of all fires and fire alarms, of their
location, or the class of building or structure damaged or destroyed, of the
purpose for which it was used, of the cause of the fire, the amount of loss,
the amount of insurance, and such other information as to him or her or the
Council seems important. He or she shall include in the report a record of any
injury that may have been sustained by any person on account thereof. The
record shall at all times be available for the inspection of the Mayor and
Council. He or she shall report to the Council, at its first meeting in May of
each year, the operation of the Department for the preceding year, and shall
include therewith an inventory of the property of the Department. He or she
shall file with the Clerk and the Clerk of the District Court of the county, on
the first Monday of April and October of each year, a certified copy of the
rolls of all members in good standing in their respective companies in order to
obtain the exemptions provided by law. The service records of all firefighters
shall accompany their applications for honorable discharge when the same are
submitted to the Mayor and Council for approval and signature.
(1992 Code, § 3-810)
§ 32.064 AUTHORITY AT FIRES.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall, at fires, have control of the police
and all other persons present. He or she may appoint persons to assist in the
protection of property, who shall, on his or her recommendation, be compensated
by the Council for any services rendered.
(1992 Code, § 3-811)
§ 32.065 EXPENDITURES.
   No obligations, except in emergencies and with regard to minor expenditures,
shall be incurred on behalf of the Fire Department unless authorized by the
Council.
(1992 Code, § 3-812)
§ 32.066 REGULATION OF TRAFFIC AT FIRES.
   No person, without the consent of the Chief of the Fire Department or his or
her assistant in command, shall drive any vehicle over any unprotected hose of
the Fire Department. When the fire alarm shall have been sounded, every vehicle
already stationary or parked shall remain so for a period of 5 minutes after
the sounding of the alarm. The driver of any moving vehicle, upon the sounding
of any fire alarm or the approach of any fire engine or fire apparatus, shall
immediately drive that vehicle as near as possible to the right-hand curb and
shall bring the vehicle to a standstill until after the fire engines or fire
apparatus shall have passed. No vehicle, except by specific direction of the
Chief of the Fire Department or his or her assistant, shall follow, approach,
or park closer than 150 feet to a fire or fire apparatus. The provisions of
this section shall be construed to apply neither to vehicles carrying doctors
or members of the Fire Department, nor to drivers of ambulances when emergency
calls require the abrogation of the fire traffic rules mentioned herein.
Pedestrians shall not remain within the limits of any street after a fire alarm
shall have been sounded until the fire engines or fire apparatus shall have
completely passed.
(1992 Code, § 3-813) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.067 INTERFERENCE WITH EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person other than the Fire Chief and members of the Fire Department
shall, at any time, molest, handle, or interfere with any of the fire apparatus
belonging to the city.
(1992 Code, § 3-814) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.068 FIRE DRILLS; RIGHT OF WAY; SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall hold a fire drill at least 6 times per year
at such times as the Fire Department shall by its own rules fix. The Fire
Department and its members shall have the right of way upon any street, alley,
or highway when going to fires or a drill had under the direction or by order
of the Fire Chief. When fires occur, the Chief of the Fire Department, Chief of
Police, or any officer authorized by either shall have the power to close to
the public any street, highway, or public place adjacent to or in the vicinity
of the fire. All fire hose shall be tested at least once during each municipal
year.
   (B)   The city may by resolution authorize its Fire Department or any
portion thereof to provide fire and emergency service outside the limits of the
city, either within or without the state.
(1992 Code, § 3-815)
§ 32.069 REASONABLE FEES FOR FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES.
   Fire protection districts and departments acting within the city may
hereafter: Charge reasonable fees for their services, subject to future action
of the City Council; enter into agreements with third parties to conduct
billing, provided that no individual taxpayer living within the city shall be
billed in an amount exceeding available insurance proceeds; charge reasonable
fees as exhibited on, and not to exceed, Rate Schedule “A” attached to
Ordinance No. 791 and incorporated fully herein by reference which said rate
schedule shall be reviewed and adjusted annually; and all said revenue from
reasonable service fees shall be deposited into the general operation budget of
said fire protection district or department for the replacement of equipment,
supplies or other operational costs.
(Ord. 791, passed 4-20-2021)
**** POLICE DEPARTMENT ****
§ 32.080 ESTABLISHMENT; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police, Captain,
Sergeant, and regular police officers.
(1992 Code, § 3-501)
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department, its
officers and members, and shall have the custody and control of all property
and books belonging to the Department. The Chief shall devote his or her whole
time to the municipal affairs and interests of the city, and to the
preservation of peace, order, safety, and cleanliness thereof. The Department
shall execute and enforce all laws and also the orders of the Mayor. It shall
be the duty of the Department to protect the rights of persons and property.
The Department shall take notice of all nuisances, impediments, obstructions,
and defects in the streets, avenues, alleys, business places, and residences of
the city. The Department shall execute, or cause to be executed, the processes
issued and shall cause all persons arrested to be brought before the proper
court for trial as speedily as possible. The Chief of Police and all regular
and special police officers shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of
the city and shall see that the same are strictly enforced and shall make sworn
complaints against any person or persons for violation of the same.
(Neb. RS 16-323 and 17-118) (1992 Code, § 3-502) (Am. Ord. 678, passed 11-2-
2011)
§ 32.081 ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The police officers of the city shall have the power to arrest all
offenders against the laws of the state or of the city, by day or by night, in
the same manner as the County Sheriff and to keep such offenders in the city
prison or other place to prevent their escape until trial can be had before the
proper officer.
(Neb. RS 17-118)
   (B)   Every city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the city or otherwise perform the functions
of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE.
      (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
      (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an arrest
and the suspect:
         (i)   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
         (ii)   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
         (iii)   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      PRIMARY JURISDICTION. The geographic area within territorial limits of
the city.
   (D)   Any city law enforcement officer who is within this state, but beyond
his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce the
laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated village
or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow that person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain that
person and return that person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow that person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
that person and return that person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any city law enforcement officer has this enforcement and arrest
and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local, state, or
federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance; and
      (4)   If the city, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act
or the Joint Public Agency Act, enters into a contract with any other city or
county for law enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law
enforcement personnel may have this enforcement authority within the
jurisdiction of each of the participating political subdivisions if provided
for in the agreement. Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the city
shall provide liability insurance coverage for its own law enforcement
personnel as provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (E)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or in
the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat, personal
watercraft, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02, a city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to do
any of the following or any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport that person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer’s primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary
jurisdiction any post-arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to that person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
other drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02.
(Neb. RS 29-215)
   (F)   If city law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the city in the event of disaster,
emergency, or civil defense emergency or in connection with any program of
practice or training for a disaster, emergency, or civil defense emergency when
that program is conducted or participated in by the Nebraska Emergency
Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this
state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where they
are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including
the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or
performing the functions within their primary jurisdiction. The city shall
self-insure or contract for insurance against any liability for personal
injuries or property damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as
the result of any movement made pursuant to this division.
(Neb. RS 81-829.65)
(1992 Code, § 3-504) (Ord. 506, passed 11-21-1995)
§ 32.082 POLICE CHIEF AND OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have the authority to remove, demote or suspend with
or without pay any police officer, including the Chief of Police employed by
the city when the Mayor receives information, including but not limited to
written accusation from any citizen, taxpayer or Police Chief, and has evidence
to warrant such action and the Mayor deems such action necessary for the proper
management and the effective operation of the Police Department in the
performance of its duties under the laws of the state.
   (B)   The Chief of Police may impose disciplinary action, short of
termination of employment, upon any city police officer under his or her
supervision, for any violation of the city or Police Department policies or
rules.
   (C)   At the time of imposing removal, demotion or suspension or other
disciplinary action of an officer or Chief of Police, the appropriate authority
shall inform the officer or Chief of Police orally of the reasons for the
action, including the facts which are the basis of the accusation, and the
right to appeal the decision of the Mayor or Chief of Police to the City
Council. No later than 5 days after the verbal communication, the appropriate
authority shall reduce to writing the reasons for the action including the
right to appeal the decision of the Mayor or Chief of Police to the City
Council, and a copy of the written accusation shall be delivered to the officer
or Chief of Police.
   (D)   The officer or Chief of Police shall have 10 days from the date the
written accusation is delivered to the officer or Chief of Police to file a
formal written appeal in the office of the City Clerk. The written appeal shall
set forth in detail the grounds for challenging the decision of the Mayor or
Chief of Police. The 10-day period shall start to run the day after written
notice of the discipline or removal is delivered. If the 10th day is a
nonworking day, the next working day shall be the final day to file an appeal.
Upon receipt of the appeal documents, the City Clerk shall place the matter on
the City Council agenda for the next available meeting.
   (E)   The appeal hearing before the Council shall be in open session unless
the officer or Chief of Police requests that the session be closed. At the
appeal hearing, strict rules of evidence shall not be followed. The appealing
party may be represented by an attorney or representative retained by the
appealing party at all hearings or proceedings regarding the written
accusation. The appealing party, attorney or representative, shall present all
evidence and reasons challenging the decision of the Mayor or Chief of Police,
including verbal testimony of witnesses at the hearing. Following the
presentation of the appealing party, attorney or representative, the Mayor or
other proper authority may present evidence and information supporting the
decision of the Mayor or Chief of Police including verbal testimony of
witnesses at the hearing. All proceedings before the City Council in the appeal
hearing may be recorded by the Mayor, the Chief of Police, the City or the
appealing party.
   (F)   The City Council shall have 30 days following the adjournment of the
meeting at which the hearing was held to vote to uphold, reverse, or modify the
removal or disciplinary action. If City Council fails to act within 30 days, it
will be considered and construed as a vote to uphold the removal or
disciplinary action.
   (G)   The decision of the City Council shall be based upon its determination
that, under the facts, information and evidence presented at the hearing, the
challenged removal or disciplinary action was necessary for the proper
management and the effective operation of the Police Department in the
performance of its duties under the state statutes. A violation of Police
Department or city rules or policies may be a basis for such finding.
   (H)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the preemptory
suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer by the Chief of Police
or immediate removal from duty of the Chief of Police by the Mayor, pending the
hearing authorized herein, in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or
disobedience of orders.
(Neb. RS 17-107) (Am. Ord. 660, passed 1-20-2010)
§ 32.083 BADGES.
   Every member of the police force shall wear a suitable badge, to be
furnished by the city.
(1992 Code, § 3-503)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Meetings
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
33.03   Notice to news media
   
33.04   Council meetings; where; when; quorum
   
33.05   Special meetings
   
33.06   Emergency meetings
   
33.07   Videoconferencing
   
33.08   Teleconferencing
   
33.09   Attendance other than in person
   
33.10   Closed sessions
   
33.11   Prohibited acts; exempt events
   
33.12   Public participation
   
33.13   Order of business
   
33.14   Votes
   
33.15   Minutes
   
33.16   Change in office
   
33.17   City Council; parliamentary procedure
Bonds and Oaths
   
33.30   Bonds; requirement
   
33.31   Oath of office; municipal officials
Compensation
   
33.45   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
33.46   Conflict of interest involving contracts
**** MEETINGS ****
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special, or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action.
(1992 Code, § 1-501)
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The City Council;
      (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees, councils,
subunits, or any other bodies created by the Constitution of Nebraska, statute,
ordinance, or otherwise pursuant to law; and
      (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy, or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
(1992 Code, § 1-502)
(Am. Ord. 470, passed 12-7-1993)
§ 33.02 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes, and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice of
the time and place of each meeting by a method designated by the public body
and recorded in its minutes. The notice shall be transmitted to all members of
the public body and to the public. The notice shall contain an agenda of
subjects known at the time of the publicized notice or a statement that the
agenda, which shall be kept continually current, is readily available for
public inspection at the office of the public body during normal business
hours. Agenda items shall be sufficiently descriptive to give the public
reasonable notice of the matters to be considered at the meeting. Except for
items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be altered later than 24
hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the
scheduled commencement of a meeting of the City Council scheduled outside the
corporate limits of the city. The public body shall have the right to modify
the agenda to include items of an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
(1992 Code, § 1-503)
§ 33.03 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The City Clerk, in the case of the City Council, and the secretary or other
designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411) (1992 Code, § 1-508)
§ 33.04 COUNCIL MEETINGS; WHERE; WHEN; QUORUM.
   (A)   The meetings of the City Council shall be held at City Hall in the
City of Kimball, Nebraska, located at 223 South Chestnut Street. Regular
meetings shall be held on the third Tuesday of each month at the hour of 6:00
p.m.
   (B)   At all meetings of the City Council, a majority of the Council shall
constitute a quorum to do business.
(1992 Code, § 1-513) (Am. Ord. 679, passed 11-16-2011; Am. Ord. 686, passed 7-
18-2012; Am. Ord. 693, passed 2-5-2013; Am. Ord. 733, passed 2-2-2016)
Cross-reference:
   Vote requirements for ordinances, orders, appointments, and other matters,
see §
30.49
§ 33.05 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Mayor or any 3 Councilmembers may call special meetings of the
City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the Council in writing.
The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon
the journal by the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-106)
   (B)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the City Clerk shall notify
the Mayor and Councilmembers of the special meeting, stating the time and its
purpose.
(1992 Code, § 1-514)
Statutory reference:
   Meeting notice requirements, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 33.06 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of § 33.03 shall be complied with in conducting
emergency meetings. Complete minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the
nature of the emergency and any formal action taken at the meeting shall be
made available to the public by no later than the end of the next regular
business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411) (1992 Code, § 1-505)
§ 33.07 VIDEOCONFERENCING.
   (A)   A meeting of an organization created under the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, the Joint Public Agency Act, or the Municipal Cooperative Financing Act or
of the governing body of a risk management pool or its advisory committees
organized in accordance with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act may be
held by means of videoconferencing if:
      (1)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given;
      (2)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public’s right
to attend, hear, and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio or visual recording devices, and a reasonable opportunity for input such
as public comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided
if videoconferencing was not used;
      (3)   At least 1 copy of all documents being considered is available to
the public at each site of the videoconference;
      (4)   At least 1 member of the governing body or advisory committee is
present at each site of the videoconference; and
      (5)   No more than ½ of the governing body’s or advisory committee’s
meetings in a calendar year are held by videoconference.
   (B)   Videoconferencing or conferencing by other electronic communication
shall not be used to circumvent any of the public government purposes
established in the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      VIDEOCONFERENCING. Conducting a meeting involving participants at 2 or
more locations through the use of audio-video equipment which allows
participants at each location to hear and see each  meeting participant at each
other location, including public input. Interaction between meeting
participants shall be possible at all meeting locations.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
(Ord. 528, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 33.08 TELECONFERENCING.
   (A)   A meeting of the governing body of an entity formed under the
Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint Public Agency Act or of the governing
body of a risk management pool or its advisory committees organized in
accordance with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act may be held by
telephone conference call if:
      (1)   The territory represented by the member public agencies of the
entity or pool covers more than 1 county;
      (2)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given which identifies each
telephone conference location at which a member of the entity’s or pool’s
governing body will be present;
      (3)   All telephone conference meeting sites identified in the notice are
located within public buildings used by members of the entity or pool or at a
place which will accommodate the anticipated audience;
      (4)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public’s right
to attend, hear, and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio recording devices, and a reasonable opportunity for input such as public
comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided if a
telephone conference call was not used;
      (5)   At least 1 copy of all documents being considered is available to
the public at each site of the telephone conference call;
      (6)   At least 1 member of the governing body of the entity or pool is
present at each site of the telephone conference call identified in the public
notice;
      (7)   The telephone conference call lasts no more than 1 hour; and
      (8)   No more than ½ of the entity’s or pool’s meetings in a calendar
year are held by telephone conference call.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the participation of
consultants, members of the press, and other nonmembers of the governing body
at sites not identified in the public notice. Telephone conference calls,
emails, faxes, or other electronic communication shall not be used to
circumvent any of the public government purposes established in the Open
Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1411) (Ord. 605, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 33.09 ATTENDANCE OTHER THAN IN PERSON.
   A public body may allow a member of the public or any other witness other
than a member of the public body to appear before the public body by means of
video or telecommunications equipment.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.10 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
      (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
      (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or devices;
      (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
      (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter of the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, formal
action means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) of
this section.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
(1992 Code, § 1-504) (Am. Ord. 469, passed 12-7-1993; Am. Ord. 501, passed 11-
21-1995)
§ 33.11 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, email, fax, or electronic communication shall be used for the
purpose of circumventing the requirements of this subchapter or the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
(1992 Code, § 1-504) (Am. Ord. 469, passed 12-7-1993; Am. Ord. 501, passed 11-
21-1995)
§ 33.12 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to § 33.07, may be videotaped, televised, photographed,
broadcast, or recorded by any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder,
camera, video equipment, or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction
or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) of this section for any
public body to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the
conduct of persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising,
photographing, broadcasting, or recording its meetings. A body may not be
required to allow citizens to speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid
public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body may
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least 1 copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting. Public bodies shall make available
at least 1 current copy of the Open Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at
a location accessible to members of the public. At the beginning of the
meeting, the public shall be informed about the location of the posted
information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)
(1992 Code, § 1-509)
§ 33.13 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the City Council, the Mayor, the City Clerk, and such other city
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the city shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the City Clerk.
(1992 Code, § 1-510)
§ 33.14 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413) (1992 Code, § 1-507)
§ 33.15 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within 10
working days or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier,
except that the city may have an additional 10 working days if the employee
responsible for writing the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or
emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413) (1992 Code, § 1-506)
§ 33.16 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall meet at the time and place of the
first regular meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing
officers and the outgoing members of the Council shall present their reports.
Upon the outgoing Council having completed its business, the outgoing members
of the Council shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the
outgoing officers shall thereupon each surrender to their successors in office
all property, records, papers, and moneys belonging to the same.
(1992 Code, § 1-511)
   (B)   The newly elected members of the Council and those continuing in
office shall convene immediately after the prior Council adjourns and proceed
to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor shall call the meeting
to order. The Clerk shall report to the Council the names of all
Councilmembers-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The
Council shall examine the credentials of its members and any other elective
officers of the city to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to
see that such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk’s
report shall be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
   (C)   After ascertaining that all Councilmembers and officers are duly
qualified and after the Clerk has called the roll, the Council shall elect a
President of the Council. The Mayor shall nominate his or her candidates for
appointive offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired and call for a
vote on approval of the candidates. The Mayor shall then proceed with the
regular order of business.
(1992 Code, § 1-512)
§ 33.17 CITY COUNCIL; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, the rules of parliamentary
procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of the City
Council. The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the City Council and
shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Council. When
any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the point is
decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the
meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise from his
or her seat and address the presiding officer and while speaking shall confine
his or her comments to the question. When 2 or more persons rise at once, the
Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions or motions shall
be reduced to writing before being acted upon, if requested by the City Clerk
or any member of the Council. Every member of the Council who is present when a
question is voted upon shall cast his or her vote unless excused by a majority
of the members of the Council present. No motion shall be put or debated unless
seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Mayor before being
debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on the minutes,
the name of the member of the Council making the motion or resolution shall be
entered also. After each vote, the “yeas” and “nays” shall be taken and entered
in the minutes. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution, motion, or
proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor with the
consent of the member of the Council seconding the resolution, motion, or
ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance, different times or
amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum, or the
longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member
voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the
question. When any question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained, or seconded except the previous question, a motion to table, and
to adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without debate. Any of the
rules of the Council for meetings may be suspended by a 2/3 vote of the members
present. In all cases in which provisions are not made by these rules, Robert’s
Rules of Order is the authority by which the Council shall decide all
procedural disputes that may arise.
**** BONDS AND OATHS ****
§ 33.30 BONDS; REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all officers
and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The city may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the city shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the city in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and
with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed in the
City Clerk's office within the following time:
      (1)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their appointment;
and
      (2)   Of elected city officers, within 30 days after the canvass of the
votes of the election at which they were chosen.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of city officers shall be executed by the principal
named in such bonds and by at least 2 sufficient sureties who shall be
freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official bond
of a city officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company as surety, or by 2 or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a city officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his or
her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument
by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City Council.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No city official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor, or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within 10 days
of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before the
date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed to be
in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond within
the required time and sufficient cause is not shown within that time, his or
her office shall thereupon ipso facto become vacant and such vacancy shall
thereupon immediately be filled by election or appointment as the law may
direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within 10 days from the time at which his
or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than 2
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
city, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the Council may,
by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a new
bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails, refuses, or
neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction and
approval of the Council, the office shall, by such failure, refusal, or
neglect, become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Council to appoint a
competent and qualified person to fill the office.
(1992 Code, § 1-301)
§ 33.31 OATH OF OFFICE; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the city, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering upon
their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
“I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101) (1992 Code, § 1-302)
**** COMPENSATION ****
§ 33.45 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The officers and employees of the city shall receive such compensation
as the Mayor and Council shall fix by resolution.
(Neb. RS 17-108) (1992 Code, § 1-902)
   (B)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe the
compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (C)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the city other
than his or her salary. The City Council shall not pay or appropriate any money
or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance of any
act, service, or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come within the
proper scope of the duties of any officer of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (D)   The emoluments of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in § 31.03,
except that when there are officers elected to the Council, or any other board
or commission having more than one member and the terms of one or more members
commence and end at different times, the compensation of all members of such
council, board or commission may be increased or diminished at the beginning of
the full term of any member thereof. No person who shall have resigned or
vacated any office shall be eligible to the same during the time for which he
or she was elected if during the same time the emoluments thereof were
increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
(1992 Code, § 1-901)
§ 33.46 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
      (a)   A business:
         1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability company
member, director, or officer; or
         2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s immediate
family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or more at
fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or is a
stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market value
or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
      (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional relationship
protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This definition shall
not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if the filer reports
the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
      (a)   Includes:
         1.   A member of any board or commission of the city which spends and
administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by such board or
commission; or
         2.   Any elected city official.
      (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance drivers
with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body and shall be brought within 1 year after the
contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of
any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor, or
services furnished under the contract, to the extent that the governing body
has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
      (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
      (b)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not apply if the contract is an
agenda item approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested
officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   An officer who has no business association with the business involved
in the contract, or will not receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a
result of the contract, shall not be deemed to have an interest within the
meaning of this section.
   (E)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (F)   If an officer’s parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for
special action.
   (G)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (H)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (H)(1)(a) through (H)(1)(e) of this section
about every contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of
the body has an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division
(C) of this section. This information shall be kept in the ledger for 5 years
from the date of the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
      (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
      (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
      (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
      (d)   The amount of the contract; and
      (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than 10 days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (H) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (I)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (H) of
this section shall be filed within 10 days after the account is opened.
Thereafter, the person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain a running account of amounts purchased on the open account.
Purchases made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to
this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (J)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (I) of this section, the
governing body may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an
officer of the governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (K)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (I) of this
section, contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may
have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06) (1992 Code, § 1-903)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Generally
   
34.02   Notice
   
34.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
34.04   Special elections
   
34.05   Election of officers; certifications required
   
34.06   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
34.07   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer
   
34.08   Filing fee
   
34.09   Petition, write-in, and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
34.10   Recall procedure
   
34.11   Exit polls
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
§ 34.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All city issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide primary
and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of separate
ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if city offices or issues can
reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law does not
require otherwise. All city elections involving the election of officers shall
be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the city holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the city shall be held as provided in
the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code, or bylaws of
the city.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all city elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 34.03 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the city
on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all city elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 34.04 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified
by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days
prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as provided in
Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election under this section
shall be subject to division (B) of this section.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other than the
notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue ballots for
early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots shall be counted
and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the other ballots.
Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the election results to the
City Council. The canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same
force and effect as if made by the City Council.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (B)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even- numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
§ 34.05 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner, or the County
Clerk the name of the city, the number of officers to be elected, the length of
the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and length of
remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered voter for
each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, and County Clerk
shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.06 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective city officers shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
basis unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance. No ordinance
providing for nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall permit
affiliation with any party not recognized as a political party for purposes of
the Election Act. Such ordinance providing for nomination and election on a
partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than 60 days prior to
the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 34.07 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)   Any candidate may place his or her name on the primary election ballot
by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as
provided in division (B). If a candidate is an incumbent of any elective
office, the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between
December 1 and February 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No
incumbent who resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or
her term shall file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All
other candidates shall file for office between December 1 and March 1 prior to
the date of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-606)
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-607)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 34.08 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, a filing
fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for
city office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the general
fund of the city. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper
payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the City
Treasurer's office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, the filing
fee shall be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary such candidate will receive
if he or she is elected and qualifies for the office for which he or she files
as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer. Any undeclared write-in candidate who is nominated or
elected by write-in votes shall pay the filing fee required for the office
within 10 days after the canvass of votes by the county canvassing board and
shall file the receipt with the person issuing the certificate of nomination or
the certificate of election prior to the certificate being issued.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
         (i)   Real property used as a home;
         (ii)   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
         (iii)   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
    PAUPER.  A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F) If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the candidate
may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council prior to
the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City Council, the
filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 34.09 PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
before March 1 in the calendar year of the general election may have his or her
name placed on the general election ballot for a partisan office by filing
petitions as prescribed in this section and Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by
political party convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, files as a
write-in candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by
political party convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the city, if candidates are chosen at large, or
in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen by
ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as provided
for candidate filing forms in § 34.07. Petition signers and petition
circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No
petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a
receipt showing the payment of the filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-
608. The petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general
election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the city or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, not
to exceed 2,000.
   (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the name
of a candidate upon the partisan ballot for the general election shall be at
least 20% of the total vote for Governor or President of the United States at
the immediately preceding general election within the city or in the ward in
which the officer is to be elected, as appropriate, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
§ 34.10 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, any member of the City Council, and any other elected
official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member's ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member's
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council, or any other elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the last general election,
except that for City Council office for which more than one candidate is
chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the most votes
for such office in the last general election. The signatures shall be affixed
to petition papers and shall be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, an affidavit shall be signed and filed
with the filing clerk by at least 1 registered voter. Such voter or voters
shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators of the recall
petition. The affidavit shall state the name and office of the official sought
to be removed, shall include in typewritten form in concise language of 60
words or less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall
request that the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal
circulator for circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the official sought
to be removed by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification
cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in
Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving a copy of the affidavit at the official's usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official's
last-known address. If the official chooses, he or she may submit a defense
statement in typewritten form in concise language of 60 words or less for
inclusion on the petition. Any such defense statement shall be submitted to the
filing clerk within 20 days after the official receives the copy of the
affidavit. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the petition
papers within 20 days after the receipt of the official’s defense statement.
The filing clerk shall notify the principal circulator or circulators that the
necessary signatures must be gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing
the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   Within 15 days after the filing of the petition, the filing clerk
shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the requisite number
of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the initial filing
of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the filing clerk
receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her signature be
removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for signature
verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing clerk shall
attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such examination. If
the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the filing clerk
shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to the filing of
a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the official's usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official's
last-known address.
   (2)   The City Council shall order an election to be held not less than 30
nor more than 75 days after the notification of the official whose removal is
sought under division (F)(1) of this section, except that if any other election
is to be held in the city within 90 days after such notification, the City
Council shall provide for the holding of the recall election on the same day.
All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562. If the
official whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is held,
the City Council may cancel the recall election if the City Council notifies
the election commissioner or county clerk of the cancellation at least 16 days
prior to the election, otherwise the recall election shall be held as
scheduled.
      (3)   If the City Council fails or refuses to order a recall election
within the time required, the election may be ordered by the district court
having jurisdiction over a county in which the elected official serves. If a
filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of State shall
conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) of this section shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I) of
this section.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 to 32-570.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the filing clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of a majority or more of the
members of the City Council or any other governing body at one time due to the
recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition shall be filed against an elected official within
12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or her from office
or within 6 months after the beginning of his or her term of office or within 6
months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
 § 34.11 EXIT POLLS.
   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll, or any other
interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter preference
within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place or, if inside the polling
place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Public funds defined
   
35.02   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
35.03   Annual audit; financial statements
   
35.04   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
35.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
35.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
35.07   Special assessment fund
   
35.08   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
35.09   Deposit of funds
   
35.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
35.11   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
35.12   Bond issues
   
35.13   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
35.14   Credit cards; authority to accept
   
35.15   Miscellaneous expenditures; recognition dinners; awards
Annual Budget
   
35.30   Fiscal year
   
35.31   Budget procedures
   
35.32   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
35.33   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
35.34   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
35.35   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
35.36   Appropriation bill
   
35.37   Revision of budget
   
35.38   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
   
35.39   General fund
   
35.40   Transfer of funds
   
35.50   Property tax levy for general revenue purposes
   
35.51   Levies for other taxes and special assessments
   
35.52   All-purpose levy; allocation; abandonment; extraordinary levies
   
35.53   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
35.54   Property tax; certification of amount; collection
   
35.55   Property tax request; procedure for setting
   
35.56   Motor vehicle fee
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 35.01 PUBLIC FUNDS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the city has a lottery established under the
Nebraska County and City Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are
actually received by the city from a licensed lottery operator shall be
considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts awarded as
prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
(1992 Code, § 1-801.01) (Ord. 503, passed 11-21-1995)
§ 35.02 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the city, no contract for enlargement or
general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system,
bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing over $30,000,
shall be made unless it is first approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the City Council makes
any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general improvements, such
as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets,
or any other work or improvement when the cost of the enlargement or
improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost shall be made
by the City Engineer and submitted to the City Council. In advertising for bids
as provided in divisions (C) and (E) of this section, the City Council may
publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A city electric utility may enter into a contract for the enlargement
or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of equipment used for
the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids if the price is:
      (1)   $30,000 or less;
      (2)   $60,000 or less and the city electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   $90,000 or less and the city electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   $120,000 or less and the city electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) of this section shall
be published at least 7 days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the city, and if there is no legal
newspaper published in or of general circulation in the city, then in some
newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which the city is
located, and if there is no legal newspaper of general circulation published in
the county in which the city is located, then in a newspaper, designated by the
County Board, having a general circulation within the county where bids are
required, and if no newspaper is published in the city or county, or if no
newspaper has general circulation in the county, then by posting a written or
printed copy thereof in each of 3 public places in the city at least 7 days
prior to the bid closing. In case of a public emergency resulting from
infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war,
or an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need calling for immediate
action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of or serious injury or damage to
life, health, or property, estimates of costs and advertising for bids may be
waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by
a 3/4 vote of the City Council and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the City
Council receives fewer than 2 bids on a contract or if the bids received by the
City Council contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the City Council
may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the proposed enlargement or
general improvements at a cost commensurate with the estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the City Council or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the city, the City Council or Board
of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of those materials
and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided
by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any city bidding procedure may be waived by the City Council or Board
of Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a city which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes but is not limited to supplies, materials,
and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office, department,
institution, board, or other agency.
      PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756) (1992 Code, § 1-814)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 35.03 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
city.
      ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit  of the financial transactions, affairs, or
financial condition of the city and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the annual report.
      FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the city or the fiscal year established
in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the city fiscal
year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
         (2)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city’s accounts to
be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as expeditiously
as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover all financial
transactions and affairs of the city for that preceding fiscal year. The audit
shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of the City
Council. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report made by the
accountant shall be submitted within 6 months after the close of the fiscal
year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a written
resolution adopted by the City Council. If the city owns or operates any type
of public utility or other enterprise which substantially generates its own
revenue, that phase of the affairs of the city shall be audited separately from
other functions of the city and the result shall appear separately in the
annual audit report made by the accountant to the city and such audit shall be
on an accrual basis and shall contain statements and materials which conform to
generally accepted accounting principles. For the utilities operated through
the Board of Public Works, the City Council may provide for an entirely
separate audit, on an accrual basis, of such operations and report and by a
different accountant than the one making the general audit.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the city. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least 3 copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; 2 copies shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and 1 copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the City Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The City Council shall provide and file with the City Clerk, not later
than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the city’s actual and
budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 13-606) (1992 Code, § 1-815)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 35.04 ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall have no power to appropriate, issue,
or draw any order or warrant on the City Treasurer for money, unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of § 35.05, and funds for the class or object out of which such
claim is payable have been included in the adopted budget statement or
transferred according to law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the City Council, or any
committee or member thereof, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the
officers or departments of the city, whether the object of the expenditures
shall have been ordered by the City Council or not, unless an appropriation
shall have been previously made concerning such expense, except as otherwise
expressly provided in division (A).
(Neb. RS 17-709)
   (C)   All warrants drawn upon the City Treasurer must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which the
same is chargeable, the person to whom payable, and for what particular object.
No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so drawn. Each warrant
shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement for such fund
upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
(1992 Code, §§ 1-813 and 1-817)
§ 35.05 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the city shall:
      (a)   Be presented in writing;
      (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
      (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature, and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
         (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the City
Clerk.
         (3)   The City Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant's address within 5 days if the claim
is disallowed by the City Council.
         (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the city in any action
brought against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not
been presented to the City Council to be audited, unless the recovery is for a
greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the City Council, the order for their
payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which they
are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided that if there exists at the
time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or the
state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
(1992 Code, § 1-816)
§ 35.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city shall have authority to collect the special assessments which
it levies and to perform all other necessary functions related thereto
including foreclosure.
   (B)   The City Council of any city collecting its own special assessments
shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be mailed or
otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against whom those
special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or other party
responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to receive the notice
shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the special
assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A city collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216) (1992 Code, § 1-825) (Ord. 538, passed 3-17-1998)
Statutory reference: 
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 35.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the City
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the city for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710) (1992 Code, § 1-818)
§ 35.08 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the provisions of
this section, as stipulated by the donor. The title to the money or property so
donated shall vest in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who
shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or
funds; provided, if the donation is real estate, the City Council may manage
the same as in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library
purposes under the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each
$100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within
the city for a term of not to exceed 10 years, in addition to the amount of tax
which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget statement
of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or repair,
not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
City library; city auditorium or community house for social or recreational
purposes; city hall; city public library, auditorium, or community house in a
single building; city swimming pool and appurtenances thereto; city jail; city
building to house equipment or personnel of a fire department, together with
firefighting equipment or apparatus; city park; city cemetery; city medical
clinic building, together with furnishings and equipment; or city hospital. The
city shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund
as provided in this division if, having bonded indebtedness, such city has been
in default in the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period
of 10 years prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for
the submission of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as
required in division (C).
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvement mentioned in division (B)
by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit
to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election the
proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned for
consummation under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among
other things, set forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the
estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy
over a definite period of years, not exceeding 10 years, required to provide
such cost, and the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to
be established to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement
of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the same, shall be published in its entirety 3 successive weeks
before the day of the election in a legal newspaper published in the city or,
if no legal newspaper is published therein, in some legal newspaper published
in the county in which the city is located and of general circulation. If no
legal newspaper is published in the county, such notice shall be published in
some legal newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the city is
located. No such sinking fund shall be established unless the same has been
authorized by a majority or more of the legal votes of the city cast for or
against the proposition. If less than a majority of the legal votes favor the
establishment of the sinking fund, the planned improvement shall not be made,
no annual tax shall be levied therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds
shall be established in connection therewith, but such resolution of submission
shall immediately be repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election
in the manner prescribed in this division, the City Council and its successors
in office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such resolution of
submission but never inconsistent with this section. Provisions of the statutes
of this state relating to election of officers, voting places, election
apparatus and blanks, preparation and form of ballots, information to voters,
delivery of ballots, conduct of elections, manner of voting, counting of votes,
records and certificates of elections, and recounts of votes, so far as
applicable, shall apply to voting on the proposition under this section.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in §
35.11. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the City
Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the City
Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or sinking
funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall constitute a
special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the same was
authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless authorized by 60%
of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general election favoring
such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds; provided that the
question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds, when it
fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of 1 year
from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
(1992 Code, § 1-819)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 35.09 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received, or held by him or her as City Treasurer. These
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
City Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director, or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as
Mayor, a member of the City Council, as a member of the Board of Public Works,
or as any other officer of the city shall not disqualify the bank, capital
stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution from
acting as a depository for the city funds.
      (2)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The
City Council shall approve this bond or giving of security. The City Treasurer
shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of the
failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
(1992 Code, § 1-820)
Statutory reference: 
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
§ 35.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The City Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City Council
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. RS 16-714 through 16-716 as of the time the deposit is
made. Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 35.11 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the City Treasurer holds funds of the city in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the city, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively
by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks, or the
13 banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit
Administration, or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United
States. The interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund
out of which the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the city from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the general
fund as the Council may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the
Council, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United
States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water, or gas funds, or
the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water, or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water,
or gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments, may be transferred to the general fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   Any surplus funds arising out of the operation of any system of
waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant, or distribution system by the Board of Public Works, or by the City
Council, where any of such utilities are not being operated by such a Board,
may be invested, if not invested pursuant to the provisions of any other law
upon the subject, in like manner and subject to the same conditions as the
investment of similar funds of cities of the first class, as provided in Neb.
RS 16-691.01.
(Neb. RS 17-803)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the City Council may invest any such surplus in excess of current
needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in time
deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the Nebraska Capital Expansion Act and the
Nebraska State Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized
investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date
the investment is made. The State Investment Officer shall upon request furnish
a copy of current authorized investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment
Council.
   (2)   Nothing in division (E)(1) shall be construed to authorize investments
in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
(1992 Code, § 1-821)
§ 35.12 BOND ISSUES.
   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law, issue
bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted by
state law. The City Council shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
(1992 Code, § 1-822)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-612
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 35.13 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The city may contract to retain a collection agency licensed pursuant
to Neb. RS 45-601 through 45-622, within or without this state, for the purpose
of collecting public debts owed by any person to the city.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) of this section may be assigned
to a collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid; and
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
§ 35.14 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   If authorized by the City Council, any city official may accept credit
cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the city
official.
   (C)   The city official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company, or third-party merchant bank providing that service.   
   (D)   The types of credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards accepted and
the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer and
the Director of Administrative Services with the advice of a committee convened
by the State Treasurer and the director. The committee shall consist of the
State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the director, and representatives from
counties, cities, and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate. The
committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of such services.
The State Treasurer and the director shall contract with one or more credit
card, charge card, or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks for
services on behalf of the state and those counties, cities, and political
subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for such
services. The State Treasurer and the director shall consider, for purposes of
this section, any negotiated discount, processing, or transaction fee imposed
by a credit card, charge card, or debit card company or third-party merchant
bank as an administrative expense. If the City Council chooses not to
participate in the state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge
cards, and debit cards and may negotiate and contract independently or
collectively as a governmental entity with 1 or more financial institutions,
vending service companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies,
or third-party merchant banks for the provision of these services.
   (E)   Subject to the direction of the City Council, a city official
authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized but not required to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the city, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge
or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card companies or
third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division (E) of this
section. The surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed by
the operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card involved
or when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card company
involved. When a person elects to make a payment to the city by credit card or
charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed, the payment of
the surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by that person and
shall be in no case refundable. If a payment is made electronically by credit
card, charge card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer as part of a system
for providing or retrieving information electronically, the city official shall
be authorized but not required to impose an additional surcharge or convenience
fee upon the person making a payment.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by nonpaper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire system.
(Neb. RS 13-609)
§ 35.15 MISCELLANEOUS EXPENDITURES; RECOGNITION DINNERS; AWARDS.
   (A)   The city may hold 1 recognition dinner each year for elected and
appointed officials, employees, or volunteers of the city. The maximum cost per
person for this dinner shall not exceed $40 per person. The city may not pay
the cost of the elected or appointed official’s, employee’s or volunteer’s
spouse unless the spouse is also an official, employee, or volunteer of the
city. Annual recognition dinners may be held separately for employees of each
department or separately for volunteers or any of them in combination.
   (B)   Public funds may be expended for plaques, certificates of achievement,
or items of value awarded to elected or appointed officials, employees, or
volunteers, including persons serving on local government boards or
commissions. To recognize such achievements, the employee will receive an item
of value equal to $50 for each 5 years of service with the city.
(1992 Code, § 1-824) (Ord. 467, passed 11-16-1993; Am. Ord. 792, passed 6-15-
2021)
**** ANNUAL BUDGET ****
§ 35.30 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and any public utility of the city commences on
October 1 and extends through the following September 30 except as provided in
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. RS 17-701) (1992 Code, § 1-801)
§ 35.31 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
(1992 Code, § 1-805)
§ 35.32 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year and until the adoption of the budget by the City Council in
September, the City Council may expend any balance of cash on hand for the
current expenses of the city. Except as provided in division (B) of this
section, these expenditures shall not exceed an amount equivalent to the total
amount expended under the last budget in the equivalent period of the prior
budget year. These expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for
each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) of this section may be
exceeded upon the express finding of the City Council that expenditures beyond
the amount authorized are necessary to enable the city to meet its statutory
duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in
excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the City Council in
open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged
against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the
budget when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to
authorize expenditures by the city in excess of that authorized by any other
statutory provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
(1992 Code, § 1-804.01) (Ord. 504, passed 11-21-1995)
§ 35.33 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The City Council shall annually prepare a proposed budget statement on
forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts. The proposed
budget statement shall be made available to the public prior to publication of
the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget statement pursuant to § 35.34.
A proposed budget statement shall contain the following information, except as
provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue received from
personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning
and end of the year; the amount received by taxation of personal and real
property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered cash balance available
at the beginning of the year; the amount received from personal and real
property taxation; and the amount of actual and estimated expenditures,
whichever is applicable. This statement shall contain the cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget adopted exclusive of
capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue to be
received from taxation of personal and real property, separately stated as to
each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances, whichever
is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year; the amounts
proposed to be expended during the year; and the amount of cash reserve, based
on actual experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of
the total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued by the City Council; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the City Council; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the city as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the city and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The city shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources, including
motor vehicle taxes, other than taxation of personal and real property shall
equal the amount to be received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on
the proposed budget statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised
from taxation of personal and real property, as determined above, plus the
estimated revenue from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the
unencumbered balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the
necessary required cash reserve, for the ensuing year.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
(1992 Code, § 1-802) (Am. Ord. 479, passed - -; Am. Ord. 536, passed 3-17-1998;
Am. Ord. 603, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 35.34 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The City Council shall each year conduct a public hearing on its
proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the hearing,
together with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at
least 5 days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city’s jurisdiction.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the City Council and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 days after its adoption in the manner provided in this
section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items changed and
the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by City Council, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the provisions of the
Nebraska Budget Act or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects such
errors, he or she shall immediately notify the Council of such errors. The
Council shall correct any such error as provided in § 35.34. Warrants for the
payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted under this section shall
be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance for which the Auditor has
notified the Council.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
(1992 Code, § 1-803)
§ 35.35 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 20 of each year
and file with the Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget
statement which complies with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, together with the
amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
      (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the City Council; and
      (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   The City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year and for the
amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated litigation which
involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or can be withheld or
escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section, anticipated litigation
shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who
or which filed a similar action for the preceding year which is still pending.
Except for such allowances, the City Council shall not certify an amount of tax
more than 1% greater or lesser than the amount determined under § 35.28.
   (C)   The City Council shall use the certified taxable values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year in setting
or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate 1 of its members to
perform any duty or responsibility required of the Council by this section.
(Neb. RS 13-508) (1992 Code, § 1-804) (Am. Ord. 537, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 35.36 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The City Council shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the Nebraska
Budget Act, to be termed, “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which the Council
may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-706) (1992 Code, § 1-806) (Am. Ord. 481, passed - -)
§ 35.37 REVISION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose to
revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
      (1)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
      (2)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
      (3)   The City Council has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
Nebraska Budget Act.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least 5 days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the Council’s jurisdiction. This published notice shall set
forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the Council
shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the City
Council is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment
for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These warrants shall
be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next
fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under § 35.29, the
City Council may, or within 30 days after notification of an error by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, the Council shall correct an adopted budget which
contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error which does not affect
the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount required from
property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a correction.
After correction, the City Council shall file a copy of the corrected budget
with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the City Council is
located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The City Council may then
issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511)
§ 35.38 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission, or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission, or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection,
disposal, or handling utility, or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the
city.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the city’s general fund in excess of
the amount paid by the city to the proprietary function for actual service or
services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The City Council may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the city’s general fund shall have the same fiscal year
as the city.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the City Clerk containing the following information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation, and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation, and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year, and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
City Clerk, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the statement.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the proposed
proprietary budget statement, and notice that the full proposed proprietary
budget statement is available for public review with the City Clerk during
normal business hours shall be published 1 time at least 5 days prior to the
hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the City Council’s
jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the City Council’s
jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the City Clerk
within 20 days after its adoption and published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the City Council’s jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the City Council shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the City Clerk and published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within
the City Council’s jurisdiction. If the difference between the adopted
proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual expenditures and
revenues for that fiscal year is greater than 10%, the proprietary function
reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the city budget
statement created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act, the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act need not be followed for that proprietary function.
Any income from a proprietary function which is transferred to the general fund
of the city shall be shown as a source of revenue in the city budget statement
created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
§ 35.39 GENERAL FUND.
   If the city has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 35.40 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
City Council that due to unforeseen emergencies there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the Council may by a majority vote,
unless otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such
fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in §
35.34 or by state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the City Council who obligate funds
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 13-510) Penalty, see § 10.99
**** TAX LEVIES ****
§ 35.50 PROPERTY TAX LEVY FOR GENERAL REVENUE PURPOSES.
   The city shall have power to levy taxes for general revenue purposes in any
1 year not to exceed $0.35 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the
taxable property in the city. The valuation of such property shall be
ascertained from the books or assessment rolls of the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 17-506)
§ 35.51 LEVIES FOR OTHER TAXES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The city shall have power to levy any other tax or special assessment
authorized by law.
(Neb. RS 17-507)
§ 35.52 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of Nebraska and this code
to the contrary, for any fiscal year the City Council may decide to certify to
the County Clerk for collection 1 all-purpose levy required to be raised by
taxation for all city purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for
specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in § 35.48, the all-
purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of $1.05 on each $100 upon the
taxable valuation of all the taxable property in the city. Otherwise authorized
extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded indebtedness of the city may be
made by the city in addition to such all-purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309) (1992 Code, § 1-807)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) is followed in city financing,
the city shall allocate the amount so raised to the several departments of the
city in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in other legal
manner, as the City Council deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310) (1992 Code, § 1-810)
   (C)   If the city elects to follow the method provided in division (A), it
shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but may abandon
such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311) (1992 Code, § 1-811)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for general fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 35.53 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the city for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C). The city may levy a
maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject to the
levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the city’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint
Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for
sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb.
RS 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse, or home health agency
pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial, or monument pursuant to Neb.
RS 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from
the Commission of Industrial Relations, obtained against the city which require
or obligate the city to pay that judgment, to the extent the judgment is not
paid by liability insurance coverage of the city, for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Department of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport are not included in the levy limits established by this division (A).
The limitations on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include all
other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are
those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the
limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb.
RS 77-1606 unless approved under division (C).
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, community redevelopment authorities established under
the Community Development Law, and off-street parking districts established
under the Offstreet Parking District Act may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the city and are counted in the
municipal levy limit provided by division (A), except that such limitation
shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease- purchase
contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved
according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a
public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics
in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport. For off-
street parking districts established under the Offstreet Parking District Act,
the tax shall be counted in the allocation by the city proportionately, by
dividing the total taxable valuation of the taxable property within the
district by the total taxable valuation of the taxable property within the city
multiplied by the levy of the district. The City Council shall review and
approve or disapprove the levy request of the political subdivisions subject to
this division (B). The City Council may approve all or a portion of the levy
request and may approve a levy request that would allow a levy greater than
that permitted by law. The levy allocated by the city may be exceeded as
provided in division (C).
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to city
levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for
levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the political
subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of
members present of the political subdivision’s governing body. The failure of a
political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude that
political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to
exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council shall:
         1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
         2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
      (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1 except
by agreement between both the City Council and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The city may exceed the limits provided in division (A) by an
amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the first to
exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least 2/3 of the members of the City Council and delivering a copy
of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every county
which contains all or part of the city; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than 5 years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 30 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the City Council to terminate the
authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year
following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided
in division (C)(8), whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The City Council may pass no more than 1 resolution calling for an
election pursuant to this division (C) during any 1 calendar year. Only 1
election may be held in any 1 calendar year pursuant to a petition initiated
under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms and
conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A), but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in the
ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the City Council shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   (a)   The city may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least 2/3 of the members of the City Council and
delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than 5 years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall
place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or
petition which is at least 30 days after receipt of the resolution or petition,
and the time of publication and providing a copy of the notice of election
required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the
election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)
§ 35.54 PROPERTY TAX; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   The City Council shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law, cause
to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon the
taxable value of all the taxable property of the city which the city requires
for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the city is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for municipal
purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same person or a
lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent taxes. Such
sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the provision of
law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all respects be
deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the delinquent county
taxes exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702) (1992 Code, § 1-812)
§ 35.55 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   The property tax request for the prior year shall be the property tax
request for the current year for purposes of the levy set by the County Board
of Equalization in Neb. RS 77-1601 unless the City Council passes by a majority
vote a resolution or ordinance setting the tax request at a different amount.
That resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after a special public
hearing called for the purpose is held and after notice is published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the area of the city at least 5 days prior
to the hearing.
   (B)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (2)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation; and
      (3)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request.
   (B)   Any resolution setting a tax request under this section shall be
certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before October 13 of the year
for which the tax request is to apply.
   (C)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Neb. RS 77-1601.02)
(1992 Code, § 1-825) (Ord. 539, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 35.56 MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE CITY. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of
the city.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives, and associations. Person does not include any federal,
state, or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) of this section, the
governing body of the city shall have power to require any individual whose
primary residence or person who owns a place of business which is within the
limits of the city and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within such
limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of such
fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may be
provided for under this section shall be used exclusively for constructing,
repairing, maintaining, or improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways, or
parts thereof or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for
such purposes.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the city for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the city and does not own and
operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the city; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the city and the motor vehicle’s situs under
the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act is different from the place at which
he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city.
   (E)   Until the implementation date designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles under Neb. RS 23-186, the fee shall be paid to the designated county
official of the county in which the city is located when the registration fees
as provided in the Motor Vehicle Registration Act are paid. These fees shall be
remitted to the County Treasurer for credit to the road fund of the city. On
and after the implementation date designated under Neb. RS 23-186, the fee
shall be paid to the County Treasurer for credit to such road fund.
(Neb. RS 18-1214) (1992 Code, § 1-823)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of county official, see Neb. RS 23-186
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT
      
54.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Denial of service; when prohibited
   
50.02   Utility bills; collection
   
50.03   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.04   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection,
prohibited; evidence
   
50.05   Diversion of services; civil action
   
50.06   Delinquent utility charges; lien; civil action.
   
50.07   Application for service
§ 50.01 DENIAL OF SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail in this city shall be
denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are not
collectible at law because of statutes of limitations or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings.
(Neb. RS 70-1601)
(1992 Code, § 3-107) (Ord. 571, passed 11-16-1999)
§ 50.02 UTILITY BILLS; COLLECTION.
   Charges for utility services provided by or through the city shall be billed
jointly on a monthly basis. The City Administrator shall read, or cause to be
read, water and electric meters on or around the 8th, 15th and 23rd day of each
month. Utility bills shall be mailed on the first day of each month, and shall
be due upon receipt and payable by two weeks after reading. Bills not paid by
the due date shall be deemed to be delinquent. Upon being deemed to be
delinquent, the city may discontinue service pursuant to § 50.03. Once
discontinued, service shall not be recommenced except upon payment of a
reconnection fee in an amount set by resolution of the City Council. The city
may also take any action authorized by law to effect collection of the
delinquent charges.
(1992 Code, § 3-105)
§ 50.03 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER.  Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies, or businesses of any nature.
(Neb. RS 70-1602)
   (B)   No public or private utility company, including any utility owned and
operated by the city, furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail
in this city shall discontinue service to any domestic subscriber for
nonpayment of any past-due account unless the utility company first gives
notice by first-class mail or in person to any subscriber whose service is
proposed to be terminated. If notice is given by first-class mail, such mail
shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance. Service shall not be
discontinued for at least 7 days after notice is sent or given. Holidays and
weekends shall be excluded from the 7 days. As to any subscriber who has
previously been identified as a welfare recipient to the company by the
Department of Health and Human Services, such notice shall be by certified mail
and notice of such proposed termination shall be given to the department.
(Neb. RS 70-1605)
   (C)   The notice required by division (A) shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the utility
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the utility's employee
or department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or
complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber's right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the utility may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician's certificate which
shall certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber's
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility's service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the utility within 5 days of receiving notice under this
section and will prevent the disconnection of the utility's service for a
period of 30 days from such filing. Only 1 postponement of disconnection shall
be allowed under this division for each incidence of nonpayment of any past-due
account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
utility for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the City Council or Board of Public
Works, in the case of a city utility, or the board of directors or
administrative board of any other utility.
(Neb. RS 70-1606)
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
(Neb. RS 70-1607)
   (E)   The provisions of Neb. RS 70-1608 through 70-1614 shall apply to
disputes over a proposed discontinuance of service.
   (F)   The procedures adopted for resolving utility bills by the City Council
or Board of Public Works for any city utility, 1 copy of which is on file in
the office of the City Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition
to any amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as though set out
in full.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Neb. RS 70-1615)
(1992 Code, § 3-102) (Am. Ord. 541, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 50.04 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION,
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to do any of the following:
      (1)   To connect any instrument, device, or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or to connect
any pipe or conduit supplying gas or water, without the knowledge and consent
of any city utility supplying such products or services, in such a manner that
any portion thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which
electricity, electric current, gas, or water may be consumed without passing
through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or
quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of electricity,
electric current, gas, or water obtained unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect electrical, gas, or water service without the
knowledge and consent of any city utility supplying such service if the service
has been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601 through 70-1615 or §
50.02 of this code; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter, or by any instrument, device, or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of electricity, electric current, gas, or water passing through it, without the
knowledge and consent of any city utility supplying the electricity, electric
current, gas, or water passing or intended to pass through the meter.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe, or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference, or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where that connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference,
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Neb. RS 28-515.02) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.05 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The city utility may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts
bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering, when that act results in
damages to the utility. A city utility may bring a civil action for damages
pursuant to this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility
service through means of bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the city
utility shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under division (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)
(b), the utility may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on
account of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering including, but
not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of
the suit, and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS
25-1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
is proven to exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
         (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist; and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist.
(Neb. RS 25-21,277)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
(1992 Code, § 3-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 DELINQUENT UTILITY CHARGES; LIEN; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   All water rates, taxes, or rent assessed by the City Council shall be
a lien upon the premises or real estate, upon or for which the same is used or
supplied; and such taxes, rents, or rates shall be paid and collected and such
lien enforced in such manner as the Council shall by ordinance direct and
provide.
(Neb. RS 17-538)
   (B)   All sewer charges established by the City Council shall be a lien upon
the premises or real estate for which the same is used or supplied. Such lien
shall be enforced in such manner as the Council provides by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-925.01)
   (C)   If the service charge established by the City Council for the use of
any city sewage disposal plant and sewerage system is not paid when due, such
sum may be recovered by the city in a civil action or it may be certified to
the County Assessor and assessed against the premises served and collected or
returned in the same manner as other city taxes are certified, assessed,
collected, and returned.
(Neb. RS 18-503)
   (D)   Unless the City Council otherwise provides, on June 1 of each year,
the City Clerk shall report to the Council a list of all unpaid accounts due
for utilities service together with a description of the premises served. If
the Council approves the report, the Clerk shall certify the report to the
County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(1992 Code, § 3-104)
§ 50.07 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Any person desiring water service, sewer service, electrical service, or
other utility service shall make application to the city. Each applicant shall
be required to make a service deposit in the amount or amounts as may be set by
resolution of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-537, 17-149, and 17-902) (1992 Code, § 3-101)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Pollution of waters prohibited
   
51.003   Fluoride; addition to water prohibited
Construction and Connections
   
51.015   Hook up; when required; procedure; new service; repair; sale of land;
inspection; requirements; penalties
   
51.016   Application for service
   
51.017   Water contract
   
51.018   Service contract nontransferable; shutoff notice required
   
51.019   Service to nonresidents
   
51.020   Installation procedure
   
51.021   Meters
   
51.022   Installation expense
   
51.023   Repairs; meter testing
   
51.024   Meter; tampering or bypass prohibited
   
51.025   Fire hydrants
   
51.026   Unsafe connections prohibited
   
51.027   Private water wells; standards and restrictions; permits
   
51.028   Lead prohibited
   
51.029   Contamination; prevention; encroachment limitations and setbacks
   
51.030   Right of entry
Cross-Connection and Backflow Prevention
   
51.050   Responsibility and authority
   
51.051   Definitions
   
51.052   State standards apply
   
51.053   Existing backflow prevention devices
   
51.054   Private contractors and testing
   
51.055   Surveys; violation; penalty; notice
   
51.056   Education
   
51.057   Records
   
51.058   Violations; notice
   
51.059   Violations; remedies
Water Conservation, Drought and Emergency Contingency Plan
   
51.080   Definitions
   
51.081   Water plan established
   
51.082   Findings
   
51.083   Objectives
   
51.084   Water protection programs
   
51.085   Water conservation practices
   
51.086   Drought/emergency contingency; generally
   
51.087   Stage 1: Water Watch
   
51.088   Stage 2: Water Warning
   
51.089   Stage 3: Water Emergency
   
51.090   Long-term water use efficiency
   
51.091   Plan revision, monitoring, and evaluation
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.900   Fees; collection
   
51.901   Minimum rates
   
51.902   Lien
   
51.903   Service shutoff or reduction; liability disclaimer
   
51.904   Destruction of property
Cross-reference:
   Water Department; operation and funding, see §
32.040
   Wellhead Protection, see
Ch. 155
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. The person, persons, or entity who are named on city application
for service and who receive the charge or billing of the water service, or the
person, persons or entity occupying the premises.
   MAIN. Any pipe that is used for the purpose of carrying water to, and
dispersing the same in the city, other than a supply or service pipe.
   OWNER. The person, persons, or entity who own property where the services
are connected or where services are being requested.
   PREMISES. Dwelling, apartment, building, separate business, or other
structure on a single lot, which is procuring water from the same service pipe
or source line and having 1 or more meters in a single customers name.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shutoff, stop box, or curb stop at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SOURCE LINE.  Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a
point at or near the lot line of the consumer's premises where the shutoff,
stop box, or curb stop is located.
   TRANSMISSION LINE. A pipeline that transports water from its source to the
water mains. Not used for tapping of service lines.
(1992 Code, § 3-202) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.002 POLLUTION OF WATERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the City Water Department.
(Neb. RS 17-536) (1992 Code, § 3-217) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty,
see § 10.99
§ 51.003 FLUORIDE; ADDITION TO WATER PROHIBITED.
   Fluoride shall not be added to the water system of the city.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-19-2008; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
**** CONSTRUCTION AND CONNECTIONS ****
§ 51.015 HOOK UP; WHEN REQUIRED; PROCEDURE; NEW SERVICE; REPAIR; SALE OF LAND;
INSPECTION; REQUIREMENTS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon
notice by the City Council, to hook up with the city water system.
   (B)   No 2 premises may use the same service pipe or source line. Each
premise must have at least 1 meter and hook up with the water system at the
water main.
   (C)   All persons who are, requesting new service, are making improvements
or repairs, or when lots with water service are transferred to a new owner the
service pipe and the source line must be in compliance with all of the current
ordinances and the must be inspected as described in §
51.020.
(Neb. RS 17-539) (1992 Code, § 3-218) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 51.016 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the city as required in
Chapter 50. Water may not be supplied to any house, private service pipe, or
source line, except upon the written order of the Water and Wastewater
Superintendent.
(Neb. RS 17-537 and 19-2701) (1992 Code, § 3-203) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-
2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.017 WATER CONTRACT.
   The city, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to persons
within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in which a
commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The city may furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut a street or
alley in which a city commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid and may
also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated outside the corporate
limits of the city, as and when, according to law, the Board of Public Works
may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and water rates contained in this
code or on file in the city offices shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. If the consumer
shall violate any of the provisions of any reasonable rules and regulations
that the City Council or the Board of Public Works may hereafter adopt, the
Water and Wastewater Superintendent or his or her agent may cut off or
disconnect the water service from the building or premises or place of that
violation. No further connection for water service to that building, premises,
or place shall again be made save or except by order of the Superintendent or
his or her agent.
(1992 Code, § 3-204) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.018 SERVICE CONTRACT NONTRANSFERABLE; SHUTOFF NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Water service is not transferable. Any person wishing to change from one
location to another shall make a new application. If any consumer shall move
from the premises where service is furnished, or if the premises are destroyed
by fire or other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Water and
Wastewater Superintendent who shall cause the water service to be shut off at
the premises. If the consumer should fail to give this notice, he or she shall
be charged for all water used on the premises until the Water and Wastewater
Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1992 Code, § 3-219) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 51.019 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   The Department shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without permission from the Board of Public Works; provided,
the property is within the city's zoning jurisdiction and properly zoned
pursuant to one of the city's zoning districts, ready and convenient access to
the metering and regulating equipment so that it may easily be examined and
read by authorized agents of the city is provided, access to the property is
accessible by a driveway approach or graded road, and the entire cost of laying
mains, service pipe, source line, and other expenses shall be paid by the
consumer. If access to the property is served by a public right-of-way,
customer shall upgrade the existing right-of-way to conform to the adjacent
public rights-of-way. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the city to
provide water service to nonresidents.
(Neb. RS 19-2701) (1992 Code, § 3-205) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.020 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys, and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. All
installations or repairs of pipes require 2 inspections by the Water and
Wastewater Superintendent. The first inspection shall be made when connections
or repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. The second
inspection shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the service is
restored. It is the customer's responsibility to notify the Superintendent at
the time the work is ready for each inspection. All installation shall be done
under the supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations,
and specifications prescribed for such installation by the Water and Wastewater
Superintendent; provided, that those rules, regulations, and specifications
have been reviewed and approved by the Board of Public Works.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1992 Code, § 3-206) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 51.021 METERS.
   All premises regulated under §
51.015 must be equipped with a working city approved water meter. The water
meter shall be furnished by the city upon payment that includes the costs of
the meter. All meters shall be installed under the direction of the Water and
Wastewater Superintendent and are subject to his or her approval. All meters
shall be installed in a city approved meter barrel beyond the lot line.
(1992 Code, § 3-207) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.022 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer shall pay the cost of tapping the main, installing the stop box
at the lot line of the customer, and the cost of installing the meter. No
person other than the Water and Wastewater Superintendent or someone duly
authorized by him or her shall tap the water main. The customer shall pay a tap
fee in such sum as the Water and Wastewater Superintendent shall require in
each case; provided, that a tap for a 3/4-inch pipe shall be deemed to be the
minimum or base tap fee. Excluding the above costs of tapping the main,
installing the meter, and installing the stop box, the customer shall at his or
her own expense bring water service from the main up to and upon his or her own
premises. Nonresidents shall pay tap fees and installation charges in such sums
as the Water and Wastewater Superintendent, pursuant to resolution of the Board
of Public Works, shall in each case fix. The extension of commercial mains into
unsupplied territory within the corporate limits may be made by means of water
extension districts.
(Neb. RS 17-542) (1992 Code, § 3-208) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 51.023 REPAIRS; METER TESTING.
   Repairs to the service pipe and source line shall be made by and at the
expense of the customer. All other repairs to the property of the Water
Department, including the meter, shall be made by the city. All water meters
shall be kept in repair by the city at the expense of the city. When meters are
worn out, they shall be replaced by the city at the expense of the city;
provided, that if the customer permits or allows a water meter to be damaged,
injured, or destroyed through his or her own recklessness or neglect so that
the meter must be repaired or replaced, the Water and Wastewater Superintendent
shall bill and collect from the customer the cost of that meter repair or
replacement in the same manner as water rent is collected. Permitting a water
meter to be damaged or destroyed by freezing shall always be considered
negligence on the part of the customer. All meters shall be tested at the
customer's request at the expense of the customer any reasonable number of
times; provided, that if the test shows the water meter to be running 2% or
more fast, the expense of the test shall be borne by the city. The city
reserves the right to test any water service meter at any time, and if a meter
is found to be beyond repair the city shall always have the right to place a
new meter on the customer's water service fixtures at city expense. Should a
consumer's meter fail to register properly, the customer shall be charged for
water during the time the meter is out of repair on the basis of the quarterly
consumption during the same quarter of the preceding year; provided, that if no
such basis for comparison exists, the customer shall be charged such amount as
may be reasonably fixed by the Water and Wastewater Superintendent.
(Neb. RS 17-542) (1992 Code, § 3-209) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.024 METER; TAMPERING OR BYPASS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by
means of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so
that the water will not pass through the meter or while passing through the
meter to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1992 Code, § 3-214) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 51.025 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the City Fire Department acting under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief at the time of a fire emergency; or members of the Water
Department, or others with permission of the Water and Wastewater
Superintendent, to open or attempt to open any of the hydrants and draw water
from the same, or in any manner to interfere with the hydrants.
(1992 Code, § 3-216) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.026 UNSAFE CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No customer or other person shall cause, allow, or create any physical
connection between the city water distribution system and any pipes, pumps,
hydrants, tanks, steam condensate returns, engine jackets, heat exchangers,
other water supplied, or any other connection whereby potentially unsafe or
contaminating materials may be discharged or drawn into the city water
distribution system.
   (B)   At least 1 time every 5 years, customers of the city water
distribution and supply system shall be required to assess and report potential
backflow and backsiphonage hazards to the city on a form supplied by the city
to the customer. The customer shall take any steps necessary for protection of
public health and safety as determined by the Water and Wastewater
Superintendent.
(1992 Code, § 3-221) (Am. Ord. 448, passed 11-17-1992; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-
18-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.027 PRIVATE WATER WELLS; STANDARDS AND RESTRICTIONS; PERMITS.
   All private wells shall comply with standards promulgated by the State
Department of Health. After the effective date of this section, no person shall
install a private water well in the city or within 300 feet of a city water
main without first obtaining a permit from the city. The fee for this permit
shall be $50. No permit shall be issued unless the applicant demonstrates that
the proposed private water well is for irrigation purposes only, and the
irrigated area is 2 acres in size or greater and is owned by the applicant. No
private water well shall be attached to any private water system or to the city
water system. Upon completion of an approved water well, the applicant shall
notify the City Water Department for an inspection and shall not be used until
that inspection is completed, which shall be not more than 10 days after notice
of completion is given. If the completed well does not comply with existing
standards at the time of completion, it shall not be used until compliance is
obtained and inspected by the City Water Department.
(1992 Code, § 3-223) (Ord. 608, passed 6-4-2002; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-
2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.028 LEAD PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Any pipe, pipe fittings, solder or flux used in the installation or
repair of any residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the
public water supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LEAD FREE. Pipe, pipe fittings, solder and flux containing not more than
0.25% lead.
(Neb. RS 71-5301 and 71-5301.01) (1992 Code, § 3-222) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-
18-2014; Am. Ord. 741, passed 1-17-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.029 CONTAMINATION; PREVENTION; ENCROACHMENT LIMITATIONS AND SETBACKS.
   (A)   The intent of this section is to establish control by the city over
the location of future potential sources of contamination within the proximity
of the city’s drinking water system, so as to prevent or minimize any hazard to
the safety of the city’s drinking water.
   (B)   Every well, infiltration line or spring serving or intended to provide
water for a public water supply system insofar as possible, should be located,
constructed or modified in such a manner that neither underground nor surface
contamination by any biological, chemical or radioactive substance or by the
physical property of any substance from any cesspool, privy, septic tank,
subsurface tile system, drain, pit below ground surface, abandoned well, animal
or avian wastes, or any other possible source of pollution can adversely affect
such water supply. The minimum recommended horizontal distance in feet
separating the well or spring from potential sources of contamination.
   (C)   The minimum recommended horizontal distance in feet separating wells
and springs from potential contamination:
Nonpotable water well                         1,000 feet
Sewage lagoon                                 1,000 feet
Absorption or disposal field for waste        500 feet
Cesspool                                      500 feet
Dump                                          500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff                     500 feet
Corral                                        500 feet
Pit toilet                                    500 feet
Sanitary landfill                             500 feet
Chemical or petroleum product storage         500 feet
Septic tank                                   500 feet
Sewage treatment plant                        500 feet
Sewage wet well                               500 feet
Sanitary sewer connection                     100 feet
Sanitary sewer manhole                        100 feet
Sanitary sewer line (permanently water tight) 100 feet
Sanitary sewer line                           50 feet
 
   (D)   When surface runoff or underground movement from potential sources of
contamination may adversely affect the quality of water from such supplies, the
distance separating these potential sources of contamination and the well or
spring should be greater than that listed above.
(Ord. 673, passed 7-6-2011; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.030 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Water and Wastewater Superintendent and other duly authorized employees
of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within that easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
that easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(1992 Code, §3-343) (Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** CROSS-CONNECTION AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION ****
§ 51.050 RESPONSIBILITY AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Responsibility of the Water Superintendent. The Water Superintendent
shall be responsible for the protection of the public water distribution system
from contamination or pollution due to backflow, backsiphonage, and cross-
connections through any water service connections. If, in the judgment of the
Water Superintendent, an approved backflow device is required at the city's
water service connection to any customer's premises, the Water Superintendent,
shall give notice in writing to the customer to properly install an approved
backflow prevention device at each service connection to his/her premises. The
customer shall within 90 days, properly install such approved device or devices
at his or her expense. Failure, refusal, or inability to properly install such
device or devices by the said customer will result in being a direct violation
for non-compliance.
   (B)   Administration. The city will operate a cross-connection control
program, to include the keeping of the necessary records, which fulfills the
requirements of the Nebraska Health and Human Services Regulation and
Licensure, hazards set forth in, "Regulations in Governing Public Water
Systems", Chapter 179 NAC 2.
   (C)   Inspection. The Water Superintendent or a designated operator assigned
by the Water Superintendent shall be permitted to enter on to the premises of
any customer and be allowed to inspect the plumbing. An inspection will be
carried out for any reason that may have a cause of concern regarding a
possible threat that could cause contaminated substances to cross-connect with
the city's potable water supply. If entry is denied, the Water Superintendent
or his or her designee may disconnect the water service to the premises
immediately or at such time as determined by the Water Superintendent.
(Ord. 623, passed 5-17-2005; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTUAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A current threat to the water supply due to a
direct cross- connection.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the distribution source of a potable water supply from any source other than
that of its intended source.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device or means to prevent the reversal of the flow of
water into a potable water supply.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. The reversal of the intended flow of water due to the result
of negative pressure in the distributing source of the potable water supply.
   CONTAMINATION. The impairment of a potable water supply by the introduction
of any foreign substances that degrade the water, and creates a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection between a potable water supply and
any other source that may cause contaminates to enter and pollute the potable
water supply.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL. The enforcement of an ordinance or other
instrument regarding cross-connections and the elimination thereof.
   COMMUNITY WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. A system that supplies potable water to
at least 15 people year round through a series of pipes and service connections
to customers throughout the system. Also referred to as WATER SYSTEM or SYSTEM.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any conditions, devices, or practices in the water supply
system and its operation in which may create a danger to health and well-being
of the water consumer.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water that is not suitable for human consumption.
   PLUMBING. To include but not limited to; the water supply, distribution
pipes, plumbing fixtures, traps, and vent pipes; building drains and building
sewers; water treating and water using equipment.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance in water tends to degrade
its quality so as to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER.  Water that is suitable for human consumption.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A possible threat, or high hazard that exist to
the water system due to the ability to cross-connect.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. A service pipe or source line that supplies the customer
from the main distribution system.
(Ord. 623, passed 5-17-2005; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.052 STATE STANDARDS APPLY.
   The Water Department shall follow the standards set by the Nebraska Health
and Human Services License and Regulations regarding the operation of an
effective cross-connection control program. These standards shall include the
types of approved backflow prevention devices, proper installation testing,
maintenance, and when and where such backflow prevention devices will be needed
due to the degree of hazard.
(Ord. 623, passed 5-17-2005; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.053 EXISTING BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Any existing in use backflow prevention devices shall be allowed, by the
Water Superintendent, to continue in service. Unless the degree of hazard
exceeds the effectiveness, the requirements allowed towards the intended use,
or result in an unreasonable risk toward public health. All existing backflow
prevention devices, the proper installation thereof, will be required under the
circumstances set by the Nebraska Health and Human Services and the city.
(Ord. 623, passed 5-17-2005; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.054 PRIVATE CONTRACTORS AND TESTING.
   The Water Department will have on file a list of Certified Grade 6 Backflow
Technicians who will be capable of testing backflow devices. The customer will
be responsible for the annual testing of preventers that require testing, the
payment of the technicians for the testing, and maintenance of the backflow
devices as needed. The private Grade 6 Backflow Technician shall file a report
with the city not more than 30 calendar days after the testing of every
testable backflow device. If no copy of the test report is filed to the city by
the Grade 6 technicians within the time period allowed, the customer shall be
contacted to supply the city with a current test report. If no action is taken
by the customer to file a report to the Water Department the customer will be
in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 623, passed 5-17-2005; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.055 SURVEYS; VIOLATION; PENALTY; NOTICE.
   (A)   The city will send out survey forms to each customer/owner of a
service connection at least once every 5 years. The survey forms will ask the
customers to assess and report any actual or potential cross-connections
hazards that may exist on the premises. If the first survey form is not
received within a reasonable time frame a second survey form will be sent out.
If after a second survey form has not been filled out, completed, and returned
back to the city within 30 calendar days after the second survey being sent
out, the owner will be in violation of this ordinance and subject to inspection
of the premises.
   (B)   The penalty for this section shall be, after notice in writing to the
customer, the Water Superintendent, or designated operator appointed by the
Water Superintendent, shall serve an inspection on any premise where the
customer is in violation of this section at the customers expense.
(Ord. 623, passed 5-17-2005; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.056 EDUCATION.
   The Water Department will provide an on-going educational information
program regarding the Cross-Connection Control Program. This shall be done at
least once a year to help better the knowledge of the customer to the
importance of the Cross-Connection Program. There will also be information
available to the customer upon request to the Water Department.
(Ord. 623, passed 5-17-2005; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.057 RECORDS.
   The Water Department shall initiate and maintain all records and will have
all records made available for inspection from the hours of 7:30 a.m. to 4:30
p.m. (excluding holidays) Monday through Friday. Records that shall be kept on
file shall include; completed survey forms, educational and other information
sent out or posted for the public water supply customers, all available
certified Grade 6 Water Operators, test forms from all testable backflow
prevention devices received from certified Grade 6 Water Operators, all
existing and installations of backflow prevention devices, any and all
violations with corrections and any actions taken to resolve the violation, and
the dates of all records that are filed of the information sent out and
received.
(Ord. 623, passed 5-17-2005; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.058 VIOLATIONS ; NOTICE.
   The Water Superintendent shall notify the owner and/or the customer of the
premises in which a violation of this subchapter has been found. The Water
Superintendent shall set a reasonable time frame, depending on the degree of
hazard in which the owner or customer must have the violation removed or
corrected. Upon failure of the owner or customer to correct the violation, the
Water Superintendent may cause the water service to be terminated to any such
building or premises.
(Ord. 623, passed 5-17-2005; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.059 VIOLATIONS; REMEDIES.
   Any person found violating any provision of this subchapter shall be subject
to the discontinuation of the water service. In addition the city may obtain
injunctive relief and sue for damages and redemption, and pursue any other
remedy available to it under the laws of the state or other authority having
jurisdiction over such matters.
(Ord. 623, passed 5-17-2005; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
**** WATER CONSERVATION, DROUGHT AND EMERGENCY CONTINGENCY PLAN ****
§ 51.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER. The customer of record using water for any purpose from the city
distribution system and for which a regular charge is made.
   DRAW DOWN. The distance between the static water level and the pumping
level.
   PLAN. The plan refers to the Water Conservation, Drought and Emergency
Contingencies Plan.
   PUMPING WATER LEVEL. The level of water in a well when the pump is pumping.
   STATIC WATER LEVEL. The level of water in a well when the pump is not
pumping.
   TRIGGERS. Significant events which indicate the implementation of the
different stages of the Plan.
   WASTE OF WATER.  Waste of water includes but not limited to permitting water
to escape down a gutter, ditch, or other surface drain; failure to repair a
controllable leak of water due to defective plumbing; or as determined by the
water system operator with concurrence of the City Administrator.
   WATER. Water available to the city by virtue of its water rights introduced
by the city into its water distribution system.
   WATER OPERATOR. The person who is licensed by the State Department of Health
and Human Services to operate the city water system.
   WATER SYSTEM CAPACITY. Determined by aggregate production of all wells in
gallons per minute times 60 minutes in an hour times 24 hours per day divided
by the population the system serves. This value is expressed in gallons per
capita per day (gpcd). The water system operator shall determine the water
system capacity on a monthly basis.
   WATER SYSTEM DEMAND. Water well readings are accomplished daily by reading
in person Monday through Friday (holidays not included and weather permitting),
readings are also taken daily electronically. Water consumption is determined
by dividing the daily consumption by the current population number and then
expressed in gallons per capita per day (gpcd).
(Ord. 680, passed 3-21-2012; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.081 WATER PLAN ESTABLISHED.
   In order to assure the continued supply of safe drinking water to the
citizens of the city, the Board of Public Works and the City Council adopts the
following plan addressing conservation, drought and emergency contingencies.
The plan is based upon demand on the system and implements a series of stages
depending upon the severity of the demand.
(Ord. 680, passed 3-21-2012; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.082 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The city has undertaken a number of steps to ensure a dependable water
supply for our citizens. The water supply for the city is obtained from 3 wells
north of the city, at this time only 1 well is used year around, and the other
2 are used as seasonal wells. When all 3 wells are pumping the water pumps
directly into the distribution system when the distribution system is full,
water is then pumped into the city's 1,000,000 gallon storage tank, which was
built in 1955.
   (B)   The city water supply and distribution system has the capacity to meet
current customer demands and future projected demands even in times of drought.
The city believes that our Water Conservation Plan represents an additional
step so our customers have a dependable water supply in the future.
(Ord. 680, passed 3-21-2012; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.083 OBJECTIVES.
   The primary objectives of the Water Conservation Plan for the city are to
develop long-term water conservation plans and short-term water emergency plans
to assure city customers of adequate water supply to meet their needs. The
efficient use of water also has the beneficial effect of limiting or postponing
water distribution system expansions and thus limiting or postponing the
resulting cost increases, in addition to conserving the water resource of the
state.
(Ord. 680, passed 3-21-2012; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.084 WATER PROTECTION PROGRAMS.
   The city has put several programs in place in the past several years in an
effort to protect the city's drinking water both short- and long-term. One of
the programs put into place by the city is a Well Head Protection Plan which
was accepted by the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality on June 8,
2011, this plan began in 1995 and is a program that delineates a Well Head
Protection area that the city's well water travels from within with the city
attempting to protect this delineated area. Another program that has been
adopted by Ordinance 623 on May 17, 2005 is an Anti-Backflow Program that is
intended to protect the city's drinking water by surveying city water customers
at least once every 5 years and then assessing surveys and requiring customers
(as needed) to take the appropriate steps necessary for protection of public
health and safety by installation of an anti-backflow device.
(Ord. 680, passed 3-21-2012; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.085 WATER CONSERVATION PRACTICES.
   This section of the plan summarizes the current education, management and
regulation efforts that relate to the long-term conservation of water by the
city. Specific practices will be undertaken to conserve water.
   (A)   Education. The city will supply local media with water conservation
tips throughout the year and during drought periods. Also, the government
television channel 13 (for Charter customers) along with the city web page
(www.kimballne.org) will be used to supply customers with water conservation
tips and updates on water schedules as needed (such as even/odd lawn watering
system can be imposed on city water customers).
   (B)   Management.
      (1)   The city has meters installed at every connection to the system.
Customer meters are monitored for accuracy and possible repair or replacement
upon receiving a citizen request or notification from city staff of an anomaly.
      (2)   Meters are read once a month (weather permitting) to help assure
proper accountability for the amount of water used.
      (3)   The city has an independent contractor perform well efficiency
tests every year with repairs done as needed.
      (4)   The water rate structure for the city was passed on October 11,
2011. Water rates are available at the city office at 223 South Chestnut Street
and are reviewed annually and adjusted as needed per the Department.
(Ord. 680, passed 3-21-2012; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.086 DROUGHT/EMERGENCY CONTINGENCY; GENERALLY.
   The city addresses its short-term water shortage problems through a series
of stages based on conditions of supply and demand with accompanying triggers,
goals and actions. Each stage is more restrictive in water use than the
previous stage as water level conditions deteriorate. The city will be
authorized by ordinance to declare a water emergency once this plan and
ordinance are in place and whenever the following occur.
(Ord. 680, passed 3-21-2012; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.087 STAGE 1: WATER WATCH.
   (A)   Triggers. This stage is triggered by any of the following conditions:
      (1)   The city storage has fallen below 70% capacity (300,000 gallons).
      (2)   Ground water levels have fallen an average of 5 feet below a
rolling 5-year average.
      (3)   Demand for one day is in excess of 1,250,000 gallons per day.
   (B)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to heighten awareness of the public
on water conditions, maintain the integrity of the water supply system and use
the ordinances in place if necessary.
   (C)   Management actions.
      (1)   The city will monitor and maintain its wells to assure an efficient
condition exists.
      (2)   System pressure will be maintained throughout the entire system.
   (D)   Regulation actions. The public will be asked to voluntarily curtail
some outdoor water use if necessary.
(Ord. 680, passed 3-21-2012; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.088 STAGE 2: WATER WARNING.
   (A)   Triggers. This stage is triggered by any of the following conditions:
      (1)   The city storage has fallen below 50% capacity (500,000 gallons).
      (2)   Ground water levels have fallen an average of 10 feet from a
rolling 5-year average.
      (3)   Demand for one day is in excess of 1,250,000 gallons.
   (B)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demands and to
reduce overall weekly consumption.
   (C)   Education actions. The city will release to the local media, also
channel 13 (government channel for Charter customers) and the city web page
(www.kimballne.org) present conditions and what actions to take, if applicable.
Water conservation articles will be released to local media.
   (D)   Management actions.
      (1)   The city water supplies will be monitored weekly.
      (2)   Pumping at affected wells will be reduced to decrease draw-down and
maintain current levels.
      (3)   The city will curtail its own use of water including sprinklers,
hose reels, hydrant flushing, and the like.
   (E)   Regulation actions.
      (1)   An odd/even outside watering system can be imposed on all city
residents.
      (2)   Residents will be asked to voluntarily curb daytime watering during
windy days to avoid evaporation.
      (3)   Waste of water will be prohibited.
(Ord. 680, passed 3-21-2012; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.089 STAGE 3: WATER EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Triggers. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions:
      (1)   The city storage has fallen below 50% capacity (500,000 gallons).
      (2)   Groundwater levels have fallen an average of 15 feet from a rolling
5-year average.
      (3)   Demand for one day is in excess of 1,500,000 gallons.
   (B)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demands by 75% and
to reduce overall weekly consumption by 50%.
   (C)   Education actions.  
      (1)   The city will make press releases to the local media, the
government TV channel (channel 13 for Charter customers) and the city web page
(www.kimballne.org) describing present conditions and what action is being
taken.
      (2)   Water conservation tips provided to local media.
   (D)   Management actions.
      (1)   The city water supplies will be monitored daily.
      (2)   System pressure will be maintained throughout the system.
      (3)   Pumping will be reduced at the affected wells to maintain current
levels.
      (4)   The city will seek help from the state and federal governments if
needed.
   (E)   Regulation actions.
      (1)   Outdoor watering (including no car washing) will be 1 day per week
between set hours, or no watering at all.
      (2)   Waste of water prohibited.
(Ord. 680, passed 3-21-2012; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.090 LONG-TERM WATER USE EFFICIENCY.
   (A)   The city used approximately 216 gallons per person per day in 2010.
This figure included:
      (1)   Water sold to residential customers.
      (2)   Water distributed for governmental use (parks, swimming pool,
street sweeper, sewer jet, water truck, and the like).
      (3)   Water lost by leaks in the distribution system.
      (4)   Water sold to commercial and industrial customers.
   (B)   The city desires to set a water use conservation goal not to exceed
300 gallons per person per day based on projecting current usage. The city
anticipates not exceeding this goal by implementing the specific actions
outlined in this plan.
(Ord. 680, passed 3-21-2012; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.091 PLAN REVISION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION.
   (A)   The city will establish a monthly management practice of reviewing
monthly totals for production, residential/commercial sales, and unaccounted
for water (AWWA standard for average water loss of 10%- 15%). Problems noted
during the monthly review will be solved as soon as possible.
   (B)   The Water Conservation Plan will be reviewed during the month of April
each year and on a more frequent basis during drought or other water shortage
problems. If water conservation goals for the previous year are not met, the
city will review the data collected from the previous year in relationship to
the status and effectiveness of the conservation practices that are outlined in
our plan and will provide status reports which will also include any additional
water conservation practices that may need to be taken in order for the city to
achieve and maintain its water use conservation goals.
(Ord. 680, passed 3-21-2012; Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 51.900 FEES; COLLECTION.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works has the power and authority to fix the rates
to be paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water
Department. All such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office
of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall bill the consumers and collect all money received
by the city on the account of the Water Department.
(Neb. RS 17-540) (1992 Code, § 3-210) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.901 MINIMUM RATES.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Water and Wastewater Superintendent to shut off the water at the stop box, in
which case he or she shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the
water is turned on again.
(Neb. RS 17-542) (1992 Code, § 3-211) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.902 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the city for water service furnished, the amount due, together with
any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a delinquent water rent
which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which the same
was used. The City Clerk shall notify in writing, or cause to be notified in
writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their tenants or
lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of water rent. It shall
be the duty of the Water and Wastewater Superintendent on the first day of June
of each year to report to the City Council a list of all unpaid accounts due
for water together with a description of the premises upon which the same was
used. The report shall be examined, and if approved by the City Council, shall
be certified by the City Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a special
tax in the manner provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-531 through 17-546) (1992 Code, § 3-213) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-
18-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.903 SERVICE SHUTOFF OR REDUCTION; LIABILITY DISCLAIMER.
   The Board of Public Works or the Water and Wastewater Superintendent may
order a reduction in the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in
the event of a water shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause.
The city shall not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply
of water of any consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing
repairs or when there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which
the city has no control.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1992 Code, § 3-215) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 51.904 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the City Water Department. No person may deposit anything in a
stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of
any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the Water
and Wastewater Superintendent.
(1992 Code, § 3-220) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
Construction and Connections; Building Sewers
   
52.015   Application for connection permit
   
52.016   Sewer service; contract
   
52.017   Contract nontransferable; shutoff notice required
   
52.018   Building sewer installation; permit required
   
52.019   Building sewer permit classification; application
   
52.020   Building sewer installation expense; liability
   
52.021   Installation and application expense; tap fee
   
52.022   Repairs and replacement
   
52.023   Separate building sewer
   
52.024   Old building sewers
   
52.025   Building sewers; requirements and specifications
   
52.026   Clear water drainage; connection to sanitary sewer prohibited
   
52.027   Building sewer inspection
   
52.028   Building sewer; excavations
   
52.029   Construction and repair; inspection procedures
Use of Public Sewers
   
52.040   Unlawful deposit of wastes
   
52.041   Untreated sewage; discharge to natural outlet prohibited
   
52.042   Prohibited discharges; clear water discharge to sanitary sewer
   
52.043   Prohibited hazardous discharges; preliminary treatment
   
52.044   Prohibited discharges as determined by Superintendent
   
52.045   Right to reject discharge, require pretreatment, or add surcharge
   
52.046   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
52.047   Preliminary treatment facilities; maintenance
   
52.048   Control manholes; requirement; installation and maintenance
   
52.049   Measurement, tests, and analyses; methods
Private Sewage Disposal System
   
52.060   Privies, septic tanks, and the like restricted
   
52.061   Available public sewer; connection required
   
52.062   Permit required
   
52.063   Inspection
   
52.064   Specifications
   
52.065   Maintenance
   
52.066   Additional requirements
Rates and Charges
   
52.080   Surcharges
   
52.081   Fees; collection
   
52.082   User charge review
   
52.083   Sewer maintenance fund
   
52.084   User classification
   
52.085   Bills; collection
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.100   Property destruction prohibited
   
52.101   Special agreements
   
52.102   Right of entry
   
52.103   Violations; notice to correct; liability for damages
   
52.104   Enforcement authority
Cross-reference:
   Sewer Department; operation and funding, see §
32.041
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
5 days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning 5 feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing process,
trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the low conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than ½ inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than 5 times the average 24-hour
concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(1992 Code, § 3-302)
**** CONSTRUCTION AND CONNECTIONS; BUILDING SEWERS ****
§ 52.015 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the city as required in this chapter. Sewer service may
not be supplied to any house or building except upon the written order of the
Water and Wastewater Superintendent. The Department shall not supply sewer
service to any person outside the corporate limits without special permission
from the Board of Public Works; provided, that the entire cost of pipe and
other installation charges shall be paid by those consumers. Nothing herein
shall be construed to obligate the city to provide sewer service to
nonresidents.
(Neb. RS 17-149 and 18-503) (1992 Code, § 3-303)
§ 52.016 SEWER SERVICE; CONTRACT.
   The city through the City Sewer Department shall furnish sewer services to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The city may also
furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are situated outside the
corporate limits of the city, as and when, according to law, the City Council
may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and sewer rental rates
hereinafter named in this chapter shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for sewer service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every customer now or hereafter served. If the customer
shall violate any reasonable rules and regulations that the Board of Public
Works may hereafter adopt, the Water and Wastewater Superintendent, or his or
her agent, may cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the building or
premises of the violation. No further connection for sewer service to that
building or those premises shall again be made save or except by order of the
Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Neb. RS 17-901, 17-902, and 18-503) (1992 Code, § 3-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.017 CONTRACT NONTRANSFERABLE; SHUTOFF NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the premises are destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Water and Wastewater Superintendent, who shall
cause the sewer service to be shut off from the premises. If the customer
should fail to give notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time
until the official in charge of sewers is otherwise advised of the
circumstances.
(Neb. RS 17-901, 17-902, and 18-503) (1992 Code, § 3-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.018 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(1992 Code, § 3-321) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.019 BUILDING SEWER PERMIT CLASSIFICATION; APPLICATION.
   (A)   There shall be 2 classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent.
(1992 Code, § 3-322)
§ 52.020 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION EXPENSE; LIABILITY.
   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(1992 Code, § 3-323)
§ 52.021 INSTALLATION AND APPLICATION EXPENSE; TAP FEE.
   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for sewer service,
shall pay to the Water and Wastewater Superintendent a tap fee which is on file
in the City Clerk’s office and which compensates the city for the expense of
processing his or her application and tapping the sewer main. The customer
shall pay all costs of installation.
(1992 Code, § 3-324)
§ 52.022 REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The City Sewer Department may require the owner of any property which
is within the city and connected to the public sewers or drains to repair or
replace any connection line which serves the owner’s property and is broken,
clogged, or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property owner’s
duty to repair or replace a connection line shall include those portions upon
the owner’s property and those portions upon public property or easements up to
and including the point of junction with the public main.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of the owner or
the agent of that owner, directing the repair or replacement of the connection
line. If within 30 days of mailing the notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause the repairs or replacements to be made, the Water and
Wastewater Superintendent may cause the work to be done and assess the cost
upon the property served by that connection.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) (1992 Code, § 3-325) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.023 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where 1 building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as 1 building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume
any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any
such single connection aforementioned.
(1992 Code, § 3-326) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.024 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Water and Wastewater
Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 3-327) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.025 BUILDING SEWERS; REQUIREMENTS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight, and verified
by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials
must be approved by the Water and Wastewater Superintendent before
installation.
(1992 Code, § 3-328) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.026 CLEAR WATER DRAINAGE; CONNECTION TO SANITARY SEWER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless that connection is approved by
the Superintendent for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage;
provided, that if responsibility can be determined, the party responsible for
disposal of polluted surface drainage into the public sanitary sewer shall pay
a user charge equivalent to the cost of treating the polluted drainage.
(1992 Code, § 3-329) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.027 BUILDING SEWER INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Water and
Wastewater Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under
the supervision of the Superintendent or his or her representative.
(1992 Code, § 3-330) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.028 BUILDING SEWER; EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city. No excavation
shall be open for an unreasonable amount of time.
(1992 Code, § 3-331) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.029 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR; INSPECTION PROCEDURES.
   All installations or repairs of pipes require 2 inspections by the Water and
Wastewater Superintendent. The first inspection shall be made when connections
or repairs are complete and before the pipe is covered. The second inspection
shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the service restored. It is
the customer’s responsibility to notify the Water and Wastewater Superintendent
at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All installation shall be
done under the supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules,
regulations, and specifications for such installation prescribed by the Water
and Wastewater Superintendent; provided, that those rules, regulations, and
specifications have been reviewed and approved by the Board of Public Works.
(1992 Code, § 3-332) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS ****
§ 52.040 UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or within 1 mile of the corporate limits thereof, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.
(1992 Code, § 3-312) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.041 UNTREATED SEWAGE; DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLET PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
within 1 mile of the corporate limits thereof, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(1992 Code, § 3-313) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.042 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; CLEAR WATER DISCHARGE TO SANITARY SEWER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Water and Wastewater Superintendent.
Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process water may be discharged, on
approval of the Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural
outlet. The contributor of any identifiable discharge of polluted water to the
sanitary sewer system shall be held responsible for reimbursing the city for
those costs. The costs shall be determined by the Superintendent with the
approval of the City Council.
(1992 Code, § 3-333) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.043 PROHIBITED HAZARDOUS DISCHARGES; PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage facilities, such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders; or
      (5)   Any waters or wastes:
         (a)   Having a 5-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids;
         (c)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the city; or
         (d)   Having a chlorine requirement greater than demanded by normal
sewage as evaluated by the city’s consulting engineer shall be subject to the
review of the Water and Wastewater Superintendent.
   (B)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide, at his or her expense, preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
      (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes; or
      (4)   Reduce the chlorine requirement to conform with normal sewage.
   (C)   Plans, specifications, and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent, and no construction of this type of facilities shall be
commenced until the approvals are obtained in writing.
(1992 Code, § 3-334) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.044 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AS DETERMINED BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Water and Wastewater Superintendent that those wastes can harm
either the sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public
property, or constitute a nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the
acceptability of these wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to
such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of
the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, and other
pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor 3/4 horsepower (0.76
hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such a degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for those materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids, (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(1992 Code, § 3-335) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.045 RIGHT TO REJECT DISCHARGE, REQUIRE PRETREATMENT, OR ADD SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
52.044, and which in the judgment of the Water and Wastewater Superintendent
may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a
public nuisance, the Water and Wastewater Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of § 52.101.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(1992 Code, § 3-336) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.046 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Water and Wastewater Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that these
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors the owner(s)
shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means
of the captured material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of
disposal which are subject to review by the Superintendent. Any removal and
hauling of the collected materials not performed by owner(s)’ personnel must be
performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
(1992 Code, § 3-337) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.047 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1992 Code, § 3-338) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.048 CONTROL MANHOLES; REQUIREMENT; INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   When required by the Water and Wastewater Superintendent, the owner of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install
a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(1992 Code, § 3-339) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.049 MEASUREMENT, TESTS, AND ANALYSES; METHODS.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at that control manhole. In the event no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
(1992 Code, § 3-340) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM ****
§ 52.060 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS, AND THE LIKE RESTRICTED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(1992 Code, § 3-314) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.061 AVAILABLE PUBLIC SEWER; CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available, the
building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer within 60 days in compliance with this chapter, and any septic
tanks, cesspools, and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be
cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material.
(1992 Code, § 3-315) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.062 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Water and Wastewater
Superintendent. The application for this permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the Water and
Wastewater Superintendent.
(1992 Code, § 3-316) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.063 INSPECTION.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Water and
Wastewater Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at
any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 40 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
(1992 Code, § 3-317)
§ 52.064 SPECIFICATIONS.
    The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of Public Health
of the state. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities when the area of the lot is
less than 80,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
(1992 Code, § 3-318) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.065 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(1992 Code, § 3-319) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.066 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected to
said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system shall be
cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bankrun gravel or dirt.
(1992 Code, § 3-320) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** RATES AND CHARGES ****
§ 52.080 SURCHARGES.
   The ordinance on file with the City Clerk shall provide for the following
surcharges:
   (A)   A high strength waste surcharge established for pollutant levels (BOD,
SS, and the like) which exceed the levels contained in the domestic strength
wastewater of the service area. The surcharge shall be expressed as a formula
with a per unit charge established for each applicable pollutant (see Appendix
B of 40 C.F.R. pt. 35.900); and
   (B)   The authority and intent shall be established to require each user
discharging any toxic pollutants to pay the increased costs of managing the
effluent or the sludge of the treatment works resulting from that discharge.
(1992 Code, § 3-306)
§ 52.081 FEES; COLLECTION.
   The Board of Public Works has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by the customers of the Sewer Department. All such fees shall be on file
for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall
have the duty of collecting the rental fees of the customers of the Sewer
Department monthly. If a customer shall for any reason order the service
discontinued or shall vacate the premises, the amount due under the terms of
this chapter, together with any rental fees and charges in arrears, shall be
considered as a delinquent sewer rental, which is hereby declared to be a lien
upon the premises or real estate for which or from which the sewer was used or
supplied, and upon the refusal of the customer to pay that delinquent sewer
rental, it shall be collected by being placed upon the assessment roll and tax
books for collection. Charges shall be delinquent after the due date. Upon
being deemed delinquent, the Water and Wastewater Superintendent shall proceed
to give notice to the delinquent customer and demand payment immediately. Those
customers who fall to pay their bills after receiving this demand shall be
subject to the discontinuance of service provisions of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 3-307) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.082 USER CHARGE REVIEW.
   The Board of Public Works shall review, at least annually, the user charge
system and revise the charges, if necessary, to accomplish the following:
   (A)   Maintain the proportional distribution of operation, maintenance, and
replacement (OM&R) costs among users and user classes;
   (B)   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of OM&R; and
   (C)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
OM&R attributable to that class for the next year and adjust the rates
accordingly.
(1992 Code, § 3-308)
§ 52.083 SEWER MAINTENANCE FUND.
   (A)   The operation, maintenance, and replacement (OM&R) portion of the
total sewer user charges shall be deposited in a non-lapsing Sewer Maintenance
Fund, or set of funds, and the revenues so deposited will be used only for the
purposes of defraying the OM&R costs of the treatment works. Funds transferred
from other revenue sources to meet temporary shortages in the OM&R accounts
shall be refunded following an appropriate adjustment in the user charges for
OM&R.
   (B)   The Sewer Maintenance Fund will have a minimum of 2 primary accounts:
      (1)   An O&M account with provision for carryover of the fiscal year end
balance to meet the overall O&M costs in the subsequent fiscal year; and
      (2)   A non-lapsing sinking fund for replacement costs which accrues
funds through deposits made at least annually from OM&R use charge revenues.
The deposits shall provide adequate revenues to meet the replacement needs of
the treatment works over its service life and shall be used for no other
purpose. For purposes of maintaining the fund on a perpetual basis, the city
shall budget a sum of money not less than 20% of its annual projected operation
and maintenance budget for the sewer treatment works. Fiscal year-end balances
in the non-lapsing sinking fund will be carried over to the same fund in the
subsequent year.
(1992 Code, § 3-309)
§ 52.084 USER CLASSIFICATION.
   The Board of Public Works may classify for the purpose of rental fees the
customers of the City Sewer Department; provided, that the classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers. The classification must be approved by the Environmental Protection
Agency, relative to the user charge grant condition.
(Neb. RS 17-925.02) (1992 Code, § 3-310)
§ 52.085 BILLS; COLLECTION.
   Sewer rental bills shall be due and payable at the same time and in the same
manner as water bills are due and payable. All penalties and procedures
concerning delinquent accounts with the City Water Department shall also be
applicable to delinquent accounts with the City Sewer Department.
(1992 Code, § 3-311) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 52.100 PROPERTY DESTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person or persons
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
(1992 Code, § 3-341) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.101 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the industrial concern.
(1992 Code, § 3-342)
§ 52.102 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Water and Wastewater Superintendent and other duly authorized employees
of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within that easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
that easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(1992 Code, § 3-343) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.103 VIOLATIONS; NOTICE TO CORRECT; LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently
cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city
by reason of that violation.
(1992 Code, § 3-344) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.104 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The city has the legal authority to enforce its system of user charges,
industrial cost recovery charge, and sewer use regulations on all existing or
future users of the system whether located inside or outside the city limits.
(1992 Code, § 3-345)
CHAPTER 53: ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
Construction and Connections
   
53.02   Contracts and terms
   
53.03   Application and permits
   
53.04   Continuity of service
   
53.05   Nontransferable; shut-off notice required
   
53.06   Wiring and connection; licensed electrician
   
53.07   Wiring restrictions and requirements
   
53.08   Installation expense
   
53.09   Consumer installation
   
53.10   Service and installation
   
53.11   Inspection
   
53.12   Meters
Protection of Department Property
   
53.20   Building moving; disturbing wires; procedures
   
53.21   Posting signs on Department equipment prohibited
   
53.22   Trimming trees; notice and restrictions
   
53.23   Destruction of property prohibited
Administration and Enforcement
   
53.35   Rates; billing and collection
   
53.36   Fee payment
   
53.37   Funds; disposition
   
53.38   Service variation or interruption; liability disclaimer
   
53.39   Inspection; right of entry
   
53.40   Right to terminate service
   
53.41   Electric System Distribution Superintendent
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANSI/IEEE. Means American National Standards Institute/Institute of Electric
and Electronics Engineers.
   APPLICANT. Means the person, persons, or entity that is requesting power
services, permission to make improvements, or improvements from the city.
   BAND METER SOCKET.  Means the meters found on multi-unit buildings where
more than one consumer would receive service.
   CONSUMER. Any person, persons, or entity who purchases power from the city
and has an account in their name.
   CT. Current transformer.
   HP. Horsepower.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-assembled structure or structures transported
in one or more sections, that is built on a permanent chassis and designed to
be used as a dwelling with a permanent foundation acceptable to the authority
having jurisdiction where connected to the required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electric systems contained therein
(ref. Art. 550, National Electric Code).
   METER. Meter, watt-hour meter, residential meter, and electric meter shall
mean the device used for measuring the amount of electricity that will be
billed to the consumer.
   METER SOCKET.  The socket that the meter plugs into.
   MOBILE HOME. A factory-assembled structure or structures equipped with the
necessary services connections and made so as to be readily moveable as a unit
or units without a permanent foundation.
   NEC.  National Electrical Code.
   OWNER. Any person, persons, or entity who owns property that receives
service, or where service may be connected.
   POINT OF DELIVERY. The point where the city's lines connect with the
consumer's lines, without regard to the city's meter, transformer, or other
apparatus.
   SELF CONTAINED METER. A meter that is designed to carry a higher amperage.
   SERVICE CONDUCTORS.  The conductors from the point of delivery or other
source of power to the service disconnecting means.
   SERVICE ENTRANCE CONDUCTORS:
      OVERHEAD SYSTEM. The service conductors between the terminals of the
service equipment and a point usually outside the building, clear of building
walls, where joined by tap or splice to service drop.
      UNDERGROUND SYSTEM. The service conductors between the terminals of the
service equipment and point of connection to service lateral.
   URD.  Underground Residential Distribution.
(Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014)
**** CONSTRUCTION AND CONNECTIONS ****
§ 53.02 CONTRACTS AND TERMS.
   The city, through its Electrical Department, shall furnish electric current
for light and power purposes to persons whose premises abut on any supply wire
of the distribution system and may furnish electric current to such other
persons within or without its corporate limits, as and when, according to law,
the Board of Public Works may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and
rates for electric service, hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for electric service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every consumer now served by
the Electrical Department. If a consumer should violate any of the rules and
regulations that the Board of Public Works may hereafter adopt, the Electric
System Superintendent, or his or her agent, shall cut off or disconnect the
electric service from the building or place of that violation as provided in
Chapter 50, and no further connection of electric service for that building or
place shall again be made save or except by order of the Superintendent or his
or her agent.
(1992 Code, § 3-402) (Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.03 APPLICATION AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Every person or persons desiring electrical service must make
application therefor to the city as provided in Chapter 50. Electricity may not
be supplied to any house or building except upon the written order of the
Electric System Superintendent. The Department shall not supply to any person
outside the corporate limits electrical service without permission from the
Board of Public Works; provided the property is within the city's zoning
jurisdiction and properly zoned pursuant to one of the city's zoning districts,
ready and convenient access to the meter so that it may easily be examined and
read by authorized agents of the city is provided, access to the property is
accessible by a driveway approach or graded road, and the entire cost of wire,
installation, and other expenses shall be paid by the consumer. If access to
the property is served by a public right-of-way, consumer shall upgrade the
existing right-of-way to conform to the adjacent public right-of-ways. Nothing
herein shall be construed to obligate the city to provide water service to
nonresidents.
(Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-2701) (1992 Code, § 3-403) Penalty, see §
10.99
   (B)   The required service is subject to service voltage availability. The
Electric System Superintendent shall advise the consumer of the available phase
and voltage for the service requested.
   (C)   Permits are required for any consumer or owner who is installing
equipment, repairing, modifying or making improvements on any buildings or
residences with existing service. The permit must describe the work or repair
to be done and must contain the information of the licensed electrician who is
making the repairs or installation. The Electric System Superintendent will
review all permits for compliance with the NEC, this Code and any other
jurisdictional requirements.
(Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.04 CONTINUITY OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The city will use reasonable diligence to provide and maintain
uninterrupted service; but in case of cessation, deficiency, variation in
voltage, or any other failure or reversal of the service, resulting from acts
of God, public enemies, accidents, strikes, riots, wars, repairs, orders of
Court, or other acts reasonably beyond the control of the city, it shall not be
liable for damages, direct or consequential resulting from such interruption or
failure.
   (B)   The city may at any time it deems necessary, suspend the supply of
electrical energy to any consumer or consumers for the purpose of making
repairs, changes or improvements upon any part of its system. The city shall
make an effort to accomplish this at a reasonable time and also make an effort
to notify the consumers affected when practicable.
   (C)   Any and all electrical services that are disconnected for 90 days or
more shall have all city equipment, meters, wires, transformer, or other
apparatus disconnected and removed. Before service shall be reconnected, the
point of delivery and electric service wiring shall be inspected by city's
Electric System Superintendent and/or the State Electrical Inspector and must
meet the current electrical codes adopted by the city prior to being re-
energized.
   (D)   Any change in electrical service, upgrade, or reconnection after 30
days of service disconnection shall be required to relocate the electrical
service point of delivery to a public right-of-way as determined by the
Electric System Superintendent.
   (E)   Any new or relocated electrical service lines shall be required to be
located underground unless otherwise authorized by the Electric System
Superintendent or City Administrator.
(Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014)
§ 53.05 NONTRANSFERABLE; SHUT-OFF NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Electrical service is not transferable. Any person wishing to change from
one location to another shall make a new application. If any consumer shall
sell, dispose, or remove from the premises where service is furnished in his or
her name, or if the premises are destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or she
shall at once inform the Electric System Superintendent, who shall cause the
electrical service to be shut off from the premises. If the consumer should
fail to give this notice, he or she shall be charged for all electricity used
on the premises until the Electric System Superintendent is otherwise advised
of the circumstances.
(Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404) (1992 Code, § 3-404) (Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.06 WIRING AND CONNECTION; LICENSED ELECTRICIAN.
   (A)   Under no circumstances shall connections be made between the wires of
the electrical distribution system of this city and the meter of the consumer,
except by an employee of the city or a licensed electrician authorized to do so
by the Electric System Superintendent. The consumer may have wiring done by any
competent licensed electrician from the meter to the points of distribution.
Consumer's service entrance equipment and wiring shall be installed in
accordance with the NEC or any state or governmental authority having
jurisdiction and shall be subject to inspection and approval by the Electric
System Superintendent. All installation shall be done under the supervision and
strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations, and specifications for such
installation prescribed by the Electric System Superintendent and Building
Inspector; provided, that those rules, regulations, and specifications have
been reviewed and approved by the Board of Public Works.
(Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404) (1992 Code, § 3-405) Penalty, see §
10.99
   (B)   The city shall have the right, but does not assume the duty, to
inspect the consumer's installation at any reasonable time and to refuse to
commence or to continue service whenever it does not consider such installation
to be in good and safe operating conditions.
   (C)   No inspection by the city, or decision not to inspect, or lack of
objection to the consumer's installation, shall render the city liable for any
damage or injury resulting from any defective installation of the consumer.
(Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014)
§ 53.07 WIRING RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   The consumer may have wiring done by any competent person or company duly
licensed as provided by state law, but under no circumstances shall connections
be made between the wires or the electric distribution system of this city. All
wiring, equipment, and apparatus shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with the rules, requirements, and conditions of the National Board
of Fire Underwriters and the National Electric Code, and must be approved by
the Electric System Superintendent or some other authorized agent of this city.
The city shall not be liable in any way for damages from any wiring or motors
inside any building. Any person operating or causing to be operated any oil
burner, motor, sign, or other electrical apparatus connected with the light and
power system of the city or suburban or farm lines, which shall cause
unnecessary electrical interference with radio and television reception, shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate the
interference. This provision shall not apply to the use of necessary medical or
health equipment or apparatus where the interference cannot be reasonably
eliminated.
(1992 Code, § 3-417) (Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.08 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of installation and equipment related to the city's electric
distribution infrastructure, including the electrical meter shall be paid by
the city. The expense of material, including the consumer's service line and
wiring from the meter to the points of distribution shall be the responsibility
of the consumer. Maintenance and replacement expense shall be apportioned in
the same manner.
(Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404) (1992 Code, § 3-406) (Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.09 CONSUMER INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The consumer shall be required to secure all necessary wiring permits
or certificates, certifying that all wiring has been or will be inspected and
conforming with local, state, and National Electric Codes, with copies or
notification of such being provided to the Electric System Superintendent
before electric service will be supplied. Any fees required for such permits or
inspections shall be paid by the consumer.
   (B)   Where the consumer's use of electric service is intermittent or causes
unusual fluctuations, including but not limited to harmonics and flicker, or
other detrimental effects on the service supplied to other consumers, the city
reserves the right to require the consumer to furnish, install, and maintain,
at the consumer's expense, suitable corrective equipment which will limit such
fluctuations or disturbances in a reasonable manner. These fluctuations shall
not exceed the recommended ANSI/IEEE standards.
Penalty, see §
10.99
   Motors:
Full Voltage or across the line starting of motors in excess of 30 horsepower
shall not be permitted except by special permission from the city. Across the
line starting of motors shall not be permitted where objectionable voltage
disturbance or annoying light flicker results. Special consideration shall be
given by the city to each individual case where full voltage starting is
desired.
Reduced voltage starting of motors shall, at the option of the city, be
required for those conditions where limited line capacity or abnormal motor
starting characteristics necessitate the use of reduced voltage controllers.
The type of reduced voltage controller used in individual cases shall be
subject to the city's approval.
Phase rotation at new installations or for added load side of the metering
equipment will be the responsibility of the consumer. Loss-of-phase protection
is encouraged for three-phase loads; normal fusing and overload protection may
not adequately protect a three-phase motor from damaging loss-of-phase
operation.
   (C)   At no time shall the consumer or electrician remove any city owned
electrical equipment including but not limited to, watt hour meters, connectors
at the point of attachments, and instrument rated meters to de-energize
consumer owned equipment.
(Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.10 SERVICE AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   In general, electric service shall be supplied to a consumer's
premises through point of delivery, except where a separate service may be
required for (1) fire pump (2) emergency lighting purposes, or (3) additional
service of difference voltage or characteristics. Under normal circumstances,
the city will furnish, install and maintain overhead service conductors from
the city's supply system to a point on, or adjacent to, the consumer's premises
designated by the city as the point of delivery. All wiring and equipment,
exclusive of the city owned metering equipment beyond this point, shall be
furnished, installed and maintained by the consumer at their expense.
   (B)   The consumer shall provide and maintain, without cost to the city, a
safe and substantial support and point of attachment for the city's overhead
service conductors. In no case will the city be responsible for any damage
caused by failure of, or defect in, such support or point of attachment. The
support and point of attachment of the city's overhead service conductors to
the building, premises, or other means of support shall be made so as to comply
with the NEC, including but not limited to, provisions regarding location,
accessibility and clearance above ground, from building openings, and over
roofs.
   (C)   Parallel operation of the consumer's electric generating equipment or
other sources of supply with the city's service shall comply with the City of
Kimball, Kimball, Nebraska, Net Metering Policy. Provided, however, consumer-
owned non-renewable and non-cogeneration electric generators are not allowed to
interconnect with the city's electric distribution system. Consumer-owned non-
renewable and non-cogeneration electric generators include, but are not limited
to, emergency generators, backup generators, peak shaving generators, and any
electric generators which do not meet the criteria of renewable or cogeneration
electric generators according to the Public Utilities Regulatory Policy Act of
1978 ("PURPA"). Such customer-owned non-renewable and non-cogeneration electric
generators shall have, between the generator and the electric distribution
system, an approved "break-before-make" switch. Such switch will disconnect the
customer load from the distribution system before energizing the load with the
consumer-owned generator. Also, the switch will cause the generator to be
disconnected from the customer load before the load is re-connected to the
distribution system. Such switch shall be tested by the city's electric
personnel present upon completion of the generator installation. The city-owned
electric utility will allow interconnection with the electric distribution
system and any consumer-owned nonrenewable or cogeneration electric generator
which meets the criteria of PURPA. Refer to the city's policy and guidelines
for interconnection for parallel installation and operation of small (25kW-DC
or less) and large (greater than 25kW-DC) consumer-owned renewable electric
generating facilities, approved by the City Council of Kimball, Nebraska
January 23, 2018.
   (D)   Where underground service is requested:
      (1)   Prior to any digging the consumer must call the Diggers Hotline of
Nebraska.
(Neb. RS 76-2301 to 76-2330)
      (2)   The consumer shall provide all trench and conduit for primary,
secondary and service conductors in accordance with the city specifications.
      (3)   Consumers requiring large commercial or industrial three phase
service, in addition to the above requirements, shall provide the following:
         (a)   The transformer pad in accordance with the city specifications;
         (b)   Three-phase transformer installations dedicated to one consumer,
may require an instrument rated metering system to be installed on the
secondary bushings of the pad mounted transformer or in a metering cabinet
located on the outside of the consumer's facility.
      (4)   The consumer shall be responsible for all service conductors from
the point of delivery as defined by the city. Where distributed metering is
installed within the consumer's facility, as approved by the city; the consumer
shall be responsible for the service conductors from the point of delivery.
      (5)   Consumer shall notify the city prior to back filling trench for
inspection of trench and conduit system. The consumer will be responsible for
the proper installation of the city supplied warning tape in the trench during
the back filling operation.
      (6)   Consumer is responsible for notifying other utilities (e.g.,
telephone or cable companies) if the trench is to be used jointly with the
city. It is the consumer's responsibility to insure that the separation of the
different utility cables is maintained per the city's specifications.
      (7)   The city will specify the installation and service requirements,
and will designate the location from which a consumer is to be served. All
trenching, conduit, and service equipment installation required is the
responsibility of the consumer, contractor, and/or developer. It is the
responsibility of the consumer, contractor, and/or developer to obtain an
inspection of the trench and conduit prior to backfilling from the city.
      (8)   Socket type metering equipment shall be installed outdoors for
residential metering Construction of the new service raceway shall include a
PVC Expansion Coupling and will be provided by the consumer as shown on the
meter installation drawing.
      (9)   The conduit for the underground service must be installed prior to
the placement of any concrete or other hard surface areas, retaining walls,
lawn sprinkler systems, sod, grass seed, or trees and shrubbery. No swimming
pool, hot tub, or wading pool shall be installed within five feet of this
conduit. The city will not be responsible for any damage to the above listed
items with the installation of the underground service. The consumer is
responsible for any future maintenance of the trench, i.e. settling, etc.
   (E)   Any installation condemned by a qualified inspector shall be
disconnected from the city's system and shall not be re-connected until notice
has been received from the State Electrical Inspector that the installation is
safe. If, in the inspector's opinion, the non-compliance with the NEC will not
cause an immediate danger to life or property, the city may leave the service
connected for a reasonable length of time to allow the consumer to comply with
the NEC. The Nebraska State Fire Marshal has the authority to condemn unsafe
buildings that present a safety hazard to the public. When a condemnation order
has been received, the city will refuse service without liability for such
refusal until compliance with the NEC has been met as determined by the
certified inspector. The city will not be liable for any loss or damage to a
consumer's property, which has received final approval by a certified
inspector, except for any acts of gross negligence by the city.
(Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014; Am. Ord. 780, passed 7-21-2020)
§ 53.11 INSPECTION.
   (A)   All new electrical installations for single residential applications
requiring new electrical service equipment shall be subject to the inspection
and enforcement provisions according to the State Electrical Act (Neb. RS § 81-
2101 through 81-2145).
   (B)   Temporary/construction services used for temporary power during the
construction phase of residential, commercial, industrial, and public use
buildings must receive a final inspection permit from the State Inspector prior
to the hookup to the city's electric system.
   (C)   Emergency connects, where human life or property is in jeopardy or in
a situation where an electric installer has made proper application for an
inspection but a certified inspector is not available to make the inspection
within the time prescribed by law (one week) and prior to the time the consumer
is ready for service from the city, the following procedure shall be followed
in the order given.
      (1)   A city service technician may inspect the service entrance
equipment and verify that it meets the city requirements as related to
connections and groundings. The inspection will not be made beyond the service
entrance;
      (2)   The property owner shall be advised of the inspection requirements
of the law;
      (3)   After divisions (1) and (2) have been executed, the city may
connect the new installation to its distribution system;
      (4)   The city will immediately notify the State Electrical Inspector of
the above action.
   (D)   It is the duty and responsibility of the electrician or installer of
electrical apparatus to apply for an inspection of that electrical installation
through the local or state authority before commencement of any work and
furnish a copy of such to the city.
(Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014)
§ 53.12 METERS.
   (A)   All electric current furnished to consumers by the electric
distribution system of the city shall be measured by meter. No person, except
an authorized agent of the city, shall be allowed to set meters or make
connections to the electric service of the distribution system. The city will
furnish necessary meters to consumers under the conditions prescribed in this
chapter, and will keep all meters clean and in repair at the expense of the
city. The owner or tenant of premises where a meter is located shall provide
ready and convenient access to the meter so that it may easily be examined and
read by authorized agents of the city. Any consumer of current from the
electric distribution system shall have the right to request the Electric
System Superintendent to test a reasonable number of times his or her current
meter which the consumer may have reason to believe is not registering the true
amount of current. It shall be the duty of the Electric System Superintendent
to test the meter as requested and any other meter which needs to be tested.
All meters now in use or hereafter installed in connection with the electric
light plant and system shall be and remain the property of the city. When a
meter is entirely worn out, it will be replaced and set by the city for the
consumer at the expense of the city; provided, however, in cases where meter
replacements are made necessary on account of the willful neglect or
recklessness on the part of consumer, then the city shall require an additional
service deposit, as though application for service were made in the first
instance.
(1992 Code, § 3-407) Penalty, see §
10.99
   (B)   Meter in disrepair; charges. In the event that any consumer's meter
falls out of repair or fails to register properly, the City Clerk shall charge
the consumer such amount as he or she deems is fair both to the consumer and
the city.
(Neb. RS 19-1404) (1992 Code, § 3-412)
   (C)   Self-contained meter installations. All metering equipment enclosures,
meter sockets, conduits or raceways, and service entrance conductors included
in the necessary service entrance, shall be furnished, installed, and
maintained at the consumer's expense and shall meet all local, State and
National Electrical Codes and shall be of a type approved by the city.
Typically residential, and/or commercial.
   (D)   Instrument rated meter installation. All conduits or raceways, and
service conductors included in the necessary service entrance, shall be
furnished, installed, and maintained at the consumer's expense and shall meet
all local, state, and National Electrical Codes. All meter sockets shall be
furnished and maintained by the city. Installation will be at the consumer's
expense when mounted on the consumer's building, poles, or other supports. All
metering equipment enclosures (CT Cabinets, etc.) shall be specified and
approved by the city. A consumer contribution will be required. For city
standard specifications. Typically residential, and/or commercial.
   (E)   Where a band of meter sockets are located on one building, each meter
socket will be identified by permanent means with the service address which it
serves.
   (F)   Meter locations and relocations.
      (1)   Residential and rural.
         (a)   The watt-hour meter shall be located outside on all new or
revamped installations. The outside location allows the utility to read and
maintain the meter in an efficient manner. In addition, in case of fire or
other disaster, the city can disconnect the service.
         (b)   Self contained meters shall not be installed on city owned
poles, underground service pedestals or pad mounted transformers without
expressed approval from the city and Electric System Superintendent.
         (c)   Prior to installation or modifications that would require a
change in location the consumer must apply for a permit from the city and
determine the proper location of the meter and meter socket. The meter location
shall not be above decks, porches or patios and shall be accessible to utility
personnel.
         (d)   Meter socket height shall be a minimum of 4 feet and a maximum
of 6 feet, as referenced to the center of the meter socket.
         (e)   Manufactured homes may have the meter located on the structure,
provided the service equipment installed is in a manner acceptable to the
authority having jurisdiction.
         (f)   Mobile homes shall not have the meter on the mobile home;
typical installation involves a consumer-owned meter pedestal or consumer-owned
meter pole. The NEC requires service equipment to be adjacent to the mobile
home, to be in sight from and not more than 30 feet from the exterior wall of
the mobile home it serves; some exceptions apply, reference NEC article 550.
         (g)   Rural residential locations may have the meter located on a
building or on a consumer-owned meter-pole (commonly called a yard pole).
      (2)   Commercial and industrial.
         (a)   The meter shall be located outside on all new or revamped
installations except by explicit written approval from the city and Electric
System Superintendent;
         (b)   The meter location must be free from obstruction, corrosive
atmosphere, and vibration and be convenient to the utility's distribution
system;
         (c)   Clear working space in front of metering equipment (including CT
enclosures) must be at least 30 inches deep and 30 inches wide as measured from
the front of the meter or CT enclosure;
         (d)   Meter socket height shall be a minimum of 4 feet and maximum of
6 feet, as referenced to the center of the meter socket.
      (3)   Hazardous locations. Metering equipment shall not be installed in
hazardous locations as defined by the latest issue of the National Electrical
Code (NEC).
      (4)   Meter relocation. Some indoor residential metering installations
still exist on city's system. Every effort should be made to relocate these
meters outdoors.
(Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014)
**** PROTECTION OF DEPARTMENT PROPERTY ****
§ 53.20 BUILDING MOVING; DISTURBING WIRES; PROCEDURES.
   Should any house or building moving occur or be necessary and it becomes
necessary in said work to remove or disturb any of the property or wires of the
City Electrical Department, the same should not be done except upon written
permission received from the Electric System Superintendent, who shall then
order paid in advance the actual cost of moving the wires, and the cost shall
be paid by the applicant prior to the moving of the building or house. All
expense of removing, changing, and replacing the wires or apparatus of the
Electrical Department shall be paid out of the deposit made prior to moving,
and any surplus remaining after all expenses are paid shall be returned to the
applicant; provided, that if in the course of moving the building or house it
becomes apparent that additional expense will be incurred, such additional
deposit as deemed necessary may be demanded.
(Neb. RS 19-1404) (1992 Code, § 3-411) (Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 53.21 POSTING SIGNS ON DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, tack, or fasten to the poles,
structures, fixtures, or equipment of the City Electrical Department any sign,
poster, advertisement, or banner without written permission from the Electric
System Superintendent.
(Neb. RS 19-1404) (1992 Code, § 3-413) (Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 53.22 TRIMMING TREES; NOTICE AND RESTRICTIONS.
   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof in close
proximity to the lines of the City Electrical Department shall, before doing
that work, give reasonable written notice to the Electric System Superintendent
and shall follow any and all rules and regulations which he or she may
prescribe for doing that work. It shall be unlawful for any person felling or
removing trees or branches to disrupt or damage the lines without first giving
proper notice and receiving permission in writing to do so. Whenever it becomes
necessary to protect the lines or property of the Electrical Department, the
City Council shall have the power to order cut and remove any overhanging
branches or limbs of trees so that the lines will be free and safe.
(1992 Code, § 3-414) (Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.23 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the City Electrical Department.
(Neb. RS 28-512) (1992 Code, § 3-416) (Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014) Penalty, see
§
10.99
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 53.35 RATES; BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   The Board of Public Works, through the authority granted by the City
Council, has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid by electrical
consumers for the use of electricity. All rates shall be on file for public
inspection at the office of the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall bill the
consumers and collect all money received by the city on the account of the City
Electrical Department. The City Clerk shall faithfully account for and pay over
the same to the City Treasurer all revenue collected by him or her.
(Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404) (1992 Code, § 3-408) (Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014)
§ 53.36 FEE PAYMENT.
   Electrical fees shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the City
Clerk. The owner of the premises will in all cases be held primarily
responsible and will be required to pay for electricity at the premises.
(Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404) (1992 Code, § 3-409) (Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.37 FUNDS; DISPOSITION.
   The funds received arising out of income from the electric distribution
system shall be kept in a separate fund known as the Utilities Fund, which
shall be allocated for accounting and other purposes as the Board of Public
Works shall from time to time direct.
(1992 Code, § 3-418) (Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014)
§ 53.38 SERVICE VARIATION OR INTERRUPTION; LIABILITY DISCLAIMER.
   The City Electrical Department does not guarantee the delivery of electric
current over the lines of the distribution system except when it has sufficient
power, current, equipment, and machinery to do so. The Electric System
Superintendent has the power and authority to reduce, disconnect, or
discontinue that service for any good and sufficient reason without liability.
The city shall use due care and reasonable diligence to provide and supply
uninterrupted service to consumers, but shall not be liable for damages
resulting from voltage reduction or variation, interruption of service due to
causes over which the city has no control, and the city expressly reserves the
right to discontinue or disconnect any consumer's service without preliminary
notice.
(Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404) (1992 Code, § 3-410) (Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014)
§ 53.39 INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Electric System Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agents
shall have free access at any reasonable time to each premises and building to
or in which electricity is supplied; provided, that in the event of an
emergency, such inspections may take place at any time.
(Neb. RS 17-902) (1992 Code, § 3-415) (Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 53.40 RIGHT TO TERMINATE SERVICE.
   (A)   The city reserves the right to terminate the supply of electric
service to any consumer or consumers without notice for any of the following
reasons:
      (1)   For fraudulent representation as to the use of electric service;
      (2)   For any disapproval of the consumer's equipment or installation due
to defects or hazardous conditions;
      (3)   For repairs or emergency operations;
      (4)   For unavoidable shortage or interruptions in the city's source of
supply;
      (5)   Whenever such action is necessary to protect the city from meter
tampering, fraud, or abuse;
      (6)    Upon cancellation of contract; or
      (7)   For any other like reason.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to terminate the supply of electric
service to any consumer or consumers with reasonable notice for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   For nonpayment of bill;
      (2)   If entry to its meter or meters is refused or if access thereto is
obstructed or hazardous;
      (3)   If the ordinances of the city are violated;
      (4)   For maintenance and increasing the capacity of the city's
facilities; or
      (5)   For any other like reason.
(Ord. 712, passed 8-5-2014)
§ 53.41 ELECTRIC SYSTEM DISTRIBUTION SUPERINTENDENT.
   The City Electric System Distribution Superintendent shall have the
immediate control and supervision over all employees and property that make up
the city electric system, subject to the general control and directives of the
Board of Public Works. He or she shall have such other duties as the Board of
Public Works may delegate to him or her.
(Ord. 802, passed 12-7-2021)
CHAPTER 54: GARBAGE
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Garbage, rubbish, and waste; accumulation; disposal
   
54.03   Solid waste; liability for charges; proof of proper disposal
   
54.04   Garbage dumpsters
   
54.05   Collection and removal; authority to require
   
54.06   Notice to remove; removal
   
54.07   Accumulation; immediate nuisance; removal
   
54.08   Removal cost
   
54.9   Removal of rubbish and waste
   
54.10   Collection fees
   
54.11   Yard waste and recyclable materials; disposal restrictions
   
54.12   Yard waste and recyclable materials; collection fees
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen refuse, decayed waste, dead animals, or anything that may
decompose and become offensive to the public health.
(1992 Code, § 4-201)
   GARBAGE COLLECTION SYSTEM. Garbage and recyclable collection service
provided for city residents and businesses.
(1992 Code, § 4-210) (Ord. 450, passed 3-16-1993; Am. Ord. 497, passed 11-22-
1994)
   RUBBISH or TRASH. Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead
trees, branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers,
rags, or any other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the
health of the residents of the city.
(1992 Code, § 4-201)
   WASTE. Cinders, ashes, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust, or sand.
(1992 Code, § 4-201)
   YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
(Neb. RS 13-2016.01) (1992 Code, § 4-211) (Ord. 508, passed 11-21-1995)
§ 54.02 GARBAGE, RUBBISH, AND WASTE; ACCUMULATION; DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on, or about any dwelling,
building, or premises, or any other place in the city, decayed vegetable or
animal substance, garbage, or refuse matter of any kind that may be injurious
to the public health or offensive to the residents of the city unless the same
is kept in receptacles. It shall be unlawful to throw or sweep into the
streets, alleys, parks, or other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces
of glass, refuse, waste, or rubbish of any kind. No person may permit garbage,
rubbish, waste, or refuse to collect, and all persons shall remove the same
from their property within 24 hours after being notified to do so by the City
Police Chief, who shall represent the City Council. Any person having garbage,
rubbish, waste, or refuse that is subject to decay or fermentation within a
short period of time shall be required to place the same in a standard garbage
can with a tight cover, or a durable plastic container that is securely tied at
its opening.
(Neb. RS 19-2106) (1992 Code, § 4-202) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.03 SOLID WASTE; LIABILITY FOR CHARGES; PROOF OF PROPER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The City Council has separately established charges to be paid to it
by each person whose premises are served by the municipal solid waste
collection system. For purposes of those charges, a person’s premises are
deemed to be served by the municipal solid waste collection system and the
owner and occupant of the premises shall be deemed served and therefore liable
for the charges unless the owner or occupant proves to the City Council that:
      (1)   The premises are unoccupied; or
      (2)   The solid waste generated at the premises during the applicable
billing period was lawfully collected and hauled to a permitted facility or was
otherwise disposed of in conformance with all applicable laws, regulations, and
ordinances.
   (B)   Proof of proper disposal during the applicable billing period may be
provided by means of any of the following:
      (1)   A billing receipt or other statement from a duly permitted solid
waste hauling service for collection of solid waste at the premises during the
applicable billing period;
      (2)   A billing receipt or register tab from a duly permitted transfer
station or disposal facility or landfill for solid waste during the applicable
billing period; or
      (3)   Other documentation of proper disposal as may be acceptable to the
City Council.
(Neb. RS 13-2020) (1992 Code, § 3-106) (Ord. 570, passed 11-16-1999) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 54.04 GARBAGE DUMPSTERS.
   The dumpsters shall be used only by those residents and businesses which are
authorized to, and are being billed for, the services provided by the city’s
garbage collection system, and shall be used only for disposal of waste
generated by city residents and businesses or by those contracting for the use
of the city’s garbage collection system who have specifically signed up for the
nonresidential service and have agreed to pay the rates for that service as
specified by the Board of Public Works. The Board of Public Works may adopt
such rates and regulations for the use of the city’s garbage collection system
by nonresidents as the Board deems appropriate.
(Ord. 497, passed 11-22-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.05 COLLECTION AND REMOVAL; AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE.
   The City Council for the city may provide for the collection and removal of
garbage or refuse found upon any lot or land within its corporate roads, or
alleys abutting such lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance. The city
may require the owner, duly authorized agent, or tenant of the lot or land to
remove the garbage or refuse from the lot or land and streets, roads, or
alleys.
(Neb. RS 17-123.01) (1992 Code, § 4-204)
§ 54.06 NOTICE TO REMOVE; REMOVAL.
   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the tenant if any. This notice
shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After providing
notice, the city through its proper offices shall, in addition to other proper
remedies, remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from the lot
or land and streets, roads, or alleys.
(Neb. RS 17-123.01) (1992 Code, § 4-205)
§ 54.07 ACCUMULATION; IMMEDIATE NUISANCE; REMOVAL.
   If the Mayor declares that the accumulation of garbage or refuse upon any
lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public health and
safety, the city shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed,
from the lot or land within 5 days after notice by personal service or
following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with § 54.05 if the
garbage or refuse has not been removed.
(Neb. RS 17-123.01) (1992 Code, § 4-206)
§ 54.08 REMOVAL COST.
   Whenever a city removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be removed,
from any lot or land pursuant to this chapter, it shall, after a hearing
conducted by the governing board, assess the cost of the removal against that
lot or land.
(Neb. RS 18-1303) (1992 Code, § 4-207)
§ 54.09 REMOVAL OF RUBBISH AND WASTE.
   Without additional charge to the property owner or occupant for garbage
collection, the Waste Department shall collect and remove all rubbish and waste
which is placed in containers.
(1992 Code, § 4-208)
§ 54.10 COLLECTION FEES.
   The rates to be charged for garbage collection services shall be set by the
Board of Public Works; however, the fees shall be fair and reasonable and
designed to meet all necessary costs for the collection, conveyance, and
disposition of the garbage, rubbish, and waste accumulated in the city. The
Board of Public Works may make reasonable rules and regulations regarding the
operation of garbage collection.
(1992 Code, § 4-209)
§ 54.11 YARD WASTE AND RECYCLABLE MATERIALS; DISPOSAL RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to place yard waste, including but not limited to grass
clippings and other yard vegetation, in the containers used for the pickup of
garbage by the city’s garbage collection system. In addition, it shall be
unlawful to place any material except yard waste, including but not limited to
grass clippings, tree branches no larger than one-half inch in diameter and
other yard vegetation, in containers used for the pickup and collection of yard
waste by the city's garbage collection system.
(1992 Code, § 4-211) (Ord. 450, passed 3-16-1993; Am. Ord. 497, passed 11-22-
1994; Am. Ord. 766, passed 10-16-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.12 YARD WASTE AND RECYCLABLE MATERIALS; FEES.
   The rates to be charged for yard waste and recyclable materials shall be set
by the Board of Public Works; however, the fees shall be fair and reasonable
and designated to meet all necessary costs for the collection, conveyance, and
disposition of such items accumulated in the city. The Board of Public Works
may make reasonable rules and regulations regarding the operation of the yard
waste and recyclable collection fees.
(1992 Code, § 4-212) (Ord. 450, passed 3-16-1993)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   BICYCLES, SNOWMOBILES, AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
      
73.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Traffic regulations; general authority
   
70.03   Regulation of highways; police powers
   
70.04   Prohibitions on operation of vehicles
   
70.05   Ordinances contrary to state law prohibited
   
70.06   Placement and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.07   Enforcement of rules and laws
   
70.08   Failure or refusal to obey order
   
70.09   Obedience to traffic control devices; exceptions
   
70.10   Authorized emergency vehicles; privileges
   
70.11   Traffic officers
   
70.12   Emergency regulations
   
70.13   Police enforcement
   
70.14   Refusal to obey
 
   
70.99   Traffic infractions; penalty
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Rules of the Road, see Neb. RS 60-601
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such fire department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles, and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles, and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as
are designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT.  The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations, or public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a
highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL.  The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Roads pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon rails,
except mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled, and
electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Police Chief or other chief law enforcement official, any
city police officer, or any other person authorized to enforce city ordinances.
With respect to directing traffic only, peace officer shall also include any
person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.  The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
2 or more separate roadways, the term roadway shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE.  The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
City Council as a school crossing zone through the use of a sign or traffic
control device as specified by the City Council in conformity with the Manual
but does not include any area of a freeway. A school crossing zone starts at
the location of the first sign or traffic control device identifying the school
crossing zone and continues until a sign or traffic control device indicates
that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER.  That part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed
for the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use, and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC.  Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, and vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE.  Any sign, signal, marking, or other device not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Rules of the Road placed or erected by authority
of the City Council or any official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL.  Any signal, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION.  The violation of any provision of the Nebraska Rules of
the Road or of any law, ordinance, order, rule, or regulation regulating
traffic which is not otherwise declared to be a misdemeanor or a felony or, in
this title, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
(1992 Code, § 5-101)
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Council may, in its jurisdiction, enact regulations
permitting, prohibiting, and controlling the use of motor vehicles, minibikes,
motorcycles, off-road recreation vehicles of any and all types, other powered
vehicles, electric personal assistive mobility devices, and vehicles which are
not self-propelled. Any person who operates any of such vehicles without the
permission of the City Council or its designated representative or in a place,
time, or manner which has been prohibited by the City Council shall be guilty
of an offense.
   (B)   The City Council may further authorize the supervising official of any
area under its ownership or control to permit, control, or prohibit operation
of any motor vehicle, minibike, motorcycle, off-road recreational vehicle of
any or all types, other powered vehicle, electric personal assistive mobility
device, or vehicle which is not self-propelled on all or any portion of any
area under its ownership or control at any time by posting or, in case of an
emergency, by personal notice. Any person operating any such vehicle where
prohibited, where not permitted, or in a manner so as to endanger the peace and
safety of the public or as to harm or destroy the natural features or manmade
features of any such area shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-678) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 REGULATION OF HIGHWAYS; POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The City Council with respect to highways under its jurisdiction and
within the reasonable exercise of the police power may:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit stopping, standing, or parking;
      (2)   Regulate traffic by means of peace officers or traffic control
devices;
      (3)   Regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways;
      (4)   Designate highways or roadways for use by traffic moving in one
direction;
      (5)   Establish speed limits for vehicles in public parks;
      (6)   Designate any highway as a through highway or designate any
intersection as a stop or yield intersection;
      (7)   Restrict the use of highways as authorized in §
70.04;
      (8)   Regulate operation of bicycles and require registration and
inspection of such, including requirement of a registration fee;
      (9)   Regulate operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices;
      (10)   Regulate or prohibit the turning of vehicles or specified types of
vehicles;
      (11)   Alter or establish speed limits authorized in the Nebraska Rules
of the Road;
      (12)   Designate no-passing zones;
      (13)   Prohibit or regulate use of controlled-access highways by any
class or kind of traffic except those highways which are a part of the state
highway system;
      (14)   Prohibit or regulate use of heavily traveled highways by any class
or kind of traffic it finds to be incompatible with the normal and safe
movement of traffic, except that such regulations shall not be effective on any
highway which is part of the state highway system unless authorized by the
Department of Roads;
      (15)   Establish minimum speed limits as authorized in the Rules;
      (16)   Designate hazardous railroad grade crossings as authorized in the
Rules;
      (17)   Designate and regulate traffic on play streets;
      (18)   Prohibit pedestrians from crossing a roadway in a business
district or any designated highway except in a crosswalk as authorized in the
Rules;
      (19)   Restrict pedestrian crossings at unmarked crosswalks as authorized
in the Rules;
      (20)   Regulate persons propelling push carts;
      (21)   Regulate persons upon skates, coasters, sleds, and other toy
vehicles;
      (22)   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, adopt and
enforce an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the use of engine brakes on the
National System of Interstate and Defense Highways that has a grade of less
than 5 degrees within its jurisdiction.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ENGINE BRAKE.  A device that converts a power producing engine into a
power-absorbing air compressor, resulting in a net energy loss;
      (23)   Adopt and enforce such temporary or experimental regulations as
may be necessary to cover emergencies or special conditions; and
      (24)   Adopt other traffic regulations except as prohibited by state law
or contrary to state law.
   (B)   The City Council shall not erect or maintain any traffic control
device at any location so as to require the traffic on any state highway or
state-maintained freeway to stop before entering or crossing any intersecting
highway unless approval in writing has first been obtained from the Department
of Roads.
   (C)   No ordinance or regulation enacted under division (A)(4), (5), (6),
(7), (10), (11), (12), (13), (14), (16), (17), or (19) shall be effective until
traffic control devices giving notice of such local traffic regulations are
erected upon or at the entrances to such affected highway or part thereof
affected as may be most appropriate.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
§ 70.04 PROHIBITIONS ON OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The City Council may by ordinance or resolution prohibit the operation
of vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight of
vehicles, for a total period not to exceed 90 days in any 1 calendar year, when
operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for the maintenance of
which the City Council is responsible whenever any such highway by reason of
deterioration, rain, snow, or other climatic condition will be seriously
damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited or the
permissible weight thereof reduced. The City Council shall erect or cause to be
erected and maintained signs designating the provisions of the ordinance or
resolution at each end of that portion of any highway affected thereby, and the
ordinance or resolution shall not be effective until such signs are erected and
maintained.
   (B)   The City Council may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the
operation of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to
the weight thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations
shall be designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-681)
§ 70.05 ORDINANCES CONTRARY TO STATE LAW PROHIBITED.
   The City Council shall not enact or enforce any ordinance directly contrary
to the Nebraska Rules of the Road unless expressly authorized by the
Legislature.
(Neb. RS 60-6,108)
§ 70.06 PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The City Council shall place and maintain such traffic control devices upon
highways under its jurisdiction as it deems necessary to indicate and to carry
out the provisions of this title or to regulate, warn, or guide traffic. All
such traffic control devices erected pursuant to this title shall conform with
the Manual.
(Neb. RS 60-6,121)
§ 70.07 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND LAWS.
   (A)   All peace officers are hereby specifically directed and authorized and
it shall be deemed and considered a part of the official duties of each of such
officers to enforce the provisions of Nebraska Rules of the Road and this
title, including the specific enforcement of maximum speed limits, and any
other state or city law regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the
highways.
   (B)   To perform the official duties imposed by this section, peace officers
shall have the power:
      (1)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Operator's License Act or this title or of any other law regulating the
operation of vehicles or the use of the highways, if and when designated or
called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (2)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any provision of the laws of this state relating
to misdemeanors or felonies or of similar city ordinances if and when
designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (3)   At all times to direct all traffic in conformity with law or, in
the event of a fire or other emergency or in order to expedite traffic or
insure safety, to direct traffic as conditions may require;
      (4)   When in uniform, to require the driver of a vehicle to stop and
exhibit his or her operator's license and registration certificate issued for
the vehicle and submit to an inspection of such vehicle and the license plates
and registration certificate for the vehicle and to require the driver of a
motor vehicle to present the vehicle within 5 days for correction of any
defects revealed by such motor vehicle inspection as may lead the inspecting
officer to reasonably believe that such motor vehicle is being operated in
violation of the statutes of Nebraska, the rules and regulations of the
Director of Motor Vehicles, or any city ordinance or regulation;
      (5)   To inspect any vehicle of a type required to be registered
according to law in any public garage or repair shop or in any place where such
a vehicle is held for sale or wrecking;
      (6)   To serve warrants relating to the enforcement of the laws
regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways; and
      (7)   To investigate traffic accidents for the purpose of carrying on a
study of traffic accidents and enforcing motor vehicle and highway safety laws.
(Neb. RS 60-683)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Operator's License Act, see Neb. RS 60-462
§ 70.08 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO OBEY ORDER.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly fails or refuses to obey any lawful order of
any peace officer who is controlling or directing traffic shall be guilty of a
traffic infraction.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly fails to obey any lawful order of a peace
officer shall be guilty of an offense whenever such order is given in
furtherance of the apprehension of a person who has violated the Nebraska Rules
of the Road or this title or of a person whom such officer reasonably believes
has violated the Rules or this title.
(Neb. RS 60-6,110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.09 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the Nebraska Rules
of the Road or this title, unless otherwise directed by a peace officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
in the Rules and this title.
   (B)   No provision of the Rules or this title for which traffic control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by a reasonably observant person.
Whenever any provision of the Rules or this title does not state that traffic
control devices are required, such provision shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
   (C)   Whenever traffic control devices are placed in position approximately
conforming to the requirements of the Rules or this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
   (D)   Any traffic control device placed pursuant to the Rules or this title
and purporting to conform with the lawful requirements pertaining to such
devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of the Rules or this
title unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   Subject to the conditions stated in the Nebraska Rules of the Road and
this title, the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency call, when pursuing an actual or suspected violator of the law, or
when responding to but not when returning from a fire alarm, may:
      (1)   Stop, park, or stand, irrespective of the provisions of the Rules
and this title, and disregard regulations governing direction of movement or
turning in specified directions; and
      (2)   Except for wreckers towing disabled vehicles and highway
maintenance vehicles and equipment:
         (a)   Proceed past a steady red indication, a flashing red indication,
or a stop sign but only after slowing down as may be necessary for safe
operation; and
         (b)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life, limb, or property.
   (B)   Except when operated as a police vehicle, the exemptions granted in
division (A) shall apply only when the driver of such vehicle, while in motion,
sounds an audible signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be
reasonably necessary and when such vehicle is equipped with at least 1 lighted
light displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a
distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle.
   (C)   The exemptions granted in division (A) shall not relieve the driver
from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall
such provisions protect such driver from the consequences of his or her
reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (D)   Authorized emergency vehicles operated by police and fire departments
shall not be subject to the size and weight limitations of sections Neb. RS 60-
6,288 to 60-6,290 and 60-6,294.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114)
§ 70.11 TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   The City Council or the Chief of Police may at any time detail officers, to
be known as "traffic officers," at street intersections. All traffic officers
shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at the
intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct the
movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be unlawful
for any person to violate any order or signal of any such traffic officer
notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or signal device that may have
been placed at any such intersection.
(1992 Code, § 5-304) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies.
(1992 Code, § 5-301)
§ 70.13 POLICE ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department is hereby authorized, empowered, and ordered to
exercise all powers and duties with relation to the management of street
traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate, and, when necessary,
temporarily divert or exclude in the interest of public safety, health, and
convenience the movement of pedestrian, animal, and vehicular traffic of every
kind in streets, in parks, and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop
upon the signal of any police officer.
(1992 Code, § 5-302) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14 REFUSAL TO OBEY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to comply with any
lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer.
(1992 Code, § 5-303) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 TRAFFIC INFRACTIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise declared in this title with respect to particular
offenses, a violation of any provision of this title shall constitute a traffic
infraction.
(Neb. RS 60-682)
   (B)   Any person who is found guilty of a traffic infraction in violation of
this title for which a penalty has not been specifically provided shall be
fined:
      (1)   Not more than $100 for the first offense;
      (2)   Not more than $200 for a second offense within a 1-year period; and
      (3)   Not more than $300 for a third and subsequent offense within a 1-
year period.
(Neb. RS 60-689)
(1992 Code, § 5-901) (Am. Ord. 578, passed 2-22-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on traffic infractions, see Neb. RS 60-684 through 60-
694.01
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.001   Restrictions on direction of travel
   
71.002   Right-of-way; stop and yield signs
   
71.003   Interference with traffic control devices or railroad signs or signals
   
71.004   Signs, markers, devices, or notices; prohibited acts
   
71.005   Tire requirements and prohibitions; permissive uses
   
71.006   Traffic lanes; designation
   
71.007   Crosswalks
   
71.008   Arterial streets; designation
   
71.009   Unauthorized signs
Speed Limits
   
71.020   Basic rule
   
71.021   Maximum limits
   
71.022   Bridges and other elevated structures
   
71.023   Alternative maximum limits
   
71.024   Near schools
Turning
   
71.040   Turning method
   
71.041   U-turns
Right of Way; Position of Vehicle on Roadway
   
71.055   Position on roadway in general; right side
   
71.056   Emergency vehicles; right of way
   
71.057   Right of way; intersections
   
71.058   Slow-moving vehicles
   
71.059   Overtaking vehicles; right of way
   
71.060   Passing and overtaking; position on roadway
   
71.061   Stops; crossing sidewalks
   
71.062   Driving on shoulder prohibited; exceptions
   
71.063   Jaywalking
Operating Rules
   
71.075   Reckless driving
   
71.076   Willful reckless driving
   
71.077   Careless driving
   
71.078   Negligent driving
   
71.079   Backing
   
71.080   Funeral processions
   
71.081   Child passenger restraint system
   
71.082   Motorcycles; helmet required
   
71.083   Driving under the influence; persons under 21
   
71.084   Engine brake use prohibited
 
   
71.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways by local authorities, see Neb. RS 60-680
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 71.001 RESTRICTIONS ON DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   (A)   The City Council with respect to highways under its jurisdiction may
designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway, or specific lanes upon which
vehicular traffic shall proceed in 1 direction at all times or at such times as
shall be indicated by traffic control devices.
   (B)   Except for emergency vehicles, no vehicle shall be operated, backed,
pushed, or otherwise caused to move in a direction which is opposite to the
direction designated by competent authority on any deceleration lane,
acceleration lane, access ramp, shoulder, or roadway.
   (C)   A vehicle which passes around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of such island.
(Neb. RS 60-6,138)
§ 71.002 RIGHT-OF-WAY; STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The City Council may provide for preferential right-of-way at an
intersection and indicate such by stop signs or yield signs erected by such
authorities.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a peace officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection where a stop is
indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall
stop, if there is no such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side
of the intersection or, if no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. After having stopped,
such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the
intersection from another highway or which is approaching so closely on such
highway as to constitute an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or
into such intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a speed
reasonable under the existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall stop, if there is no such
line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where
the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After
slowing or stopping, such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in
the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute
an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or into such intersection.
(Neb. RS 60-6,148) (1992 Code, §§ 5-212 and 5-213) (Am. Ord. 581, passed 2-22-
2000) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.003 INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any traffic control device, any railroad
sign or signal, or any part of such a device, sign, or signal.
(Neb. RS 60-6,129) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.004 SIGNS, MARKERS, DEVICES, OR NOTICES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Any person who willfully or maliciously shoots upon the public highway
and injures, defaces, damages, or destroys any signs, monuments, road markers,
traffic control devices, traffic surveillance devices, or other public notices
lawfully placed upon such highways shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or maliciously injure, deface, alter, or
knock down any sign, traffic control device, or traffic surveillance device.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly authorized
representative of the Department of Roads, the county, or the city, to remove
any sign, traffic control device, or traffic surveillance device placed along a
highway for traffic control, warning, or informational purposes by official
action of the department, county, or city. It shall be unlawful for any person
to possess a sign or device which has been removed in violation of this
division.
   (D)   Any person violating division (B) or (C) of this section shall be
guilty of an offense and shall be assessed liquidated damages in the amount of
the value of the sign, traffic control device, or traffic surveillance device
and the cost of replacing it.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130) (1992 Code, §§ 5-216 and 5-223) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.005 TIRE REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS; PERMISSIVE USES.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle moved on any highway shall have
rubber on its entire traction surface at least 1 inch thick above the edge of
the flange of the entire periphery.
   (B)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any clock, stud, flange, cleat, or spike or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire, except that:
      (1)   This prohibition shall not apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding 5/16 of an inch in diameter inclusive of the
stud-casing with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more
than 7/64 of an inch between November 1 and April 1, except that school buses,
mail carrier vehicles, and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use metal
or metal-type studs at any time during the year;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the highway; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice, or
other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor
vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer:
      (a)   Having any metal tire in contact with the roadway; or
      (b)   Equipped with solid rubber tires.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) shall not apply to farm vehicles having a gross
weight of 10,000 pounds or less or to implements of husbandry.
   (D)   The city may, in its discretion, issue special permits authorizing the
operation upon a highway of traction engines or tractors having movable tracks
with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable tracks or farm
tractors or other farm machinery.
(Neb. RS 60-6,250)
Statutory reference:
   Rubber tired cranes, see Neb. RS 60-6,288
§ 71.006 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at those places as it may deem advisable.
(1992 Code, § 5-201)
§ 71.007 CROSSWALKS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by appropriate
devices, markers, or lines upon the street, crosswalks at intersections where
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street, and at other
places as it may deem necessary.
(1992 Code, § 5-211)
§ 71.008 ARTERIAL STREETS; DESIGNATION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate any street or portion thereof
as an arterial street and shall provide for appropriate signs or markings when
a street has been so designated.
(Neb. RS 39-697) (1992 Code, § 5-202)
§ 71.009 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon or in view
of any street, any unofficial sign, signal, or device which purports to be, is
an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which attempts
to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign,
signal, or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and any police
officer is hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed,
without notice.
(Neb. RS 39-618) (1992 Code, § 5-217) Penalty, see §
71.999
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.020 BASIC RULE.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate
speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing,
when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazards exist
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.021 MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with §
71.020, the limits set forth in this section and Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,188,
60-6,305, and 60-6,313 shall be the maximum lawful speeds unless reduced
pursuant to division (B), and no person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a
speed in excess of such maximum limits:
      (1)   Twenty-five miles per hour in any residential district;
      (2)   Twenty miles per hour in any business district;
      (3)   Fifty miles per hour upon any highway that is not dustless surfaced
and not part of the state highway system;
      (4)   Fifty-five miles per hour upon any dustless-surfaced highway not a
part of the state highway system; and
      (5)   Sixty miles per hour upon any part of the state highway system
other than an expressway or a freeway, except that the Department of Roads may,
where existing design and traffic conditions allow, according to an engineering
study, authorize a speed limit 5 miles per hour greater.
   (B)   The maximum speed limits established in division (A) may be reduced by
the Department of Roads or the City Council pursuant to § 
71.23 or Neb. RS 60-6,188.
   (C)   The City Council may erect and maintain suitable signs along highways
under its jurisdiction in such number and at such locations as it deems
necessary to give adequate notice of the speed limits established pursuant to
division (A) or (B) upon such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,186) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.022 BRIDGES AND OTHER ELEVATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any public bridge, causeway,
viaduct, or other elevated structure at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety thereon when such structure
is posted with signs as provided in division (B).
   (B)   The Department of Roads or the City Council may conduct an
investigation of any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of
a highway under its jurisdiction, and if it finds that the structure cannot
safely withstand vehicles traveling at the speed otherwise permissible, the
Department or the City Council shall determine and declare the maximum speed of
vehicles which the structure can safely withstand and shall cause suitable
signs stating the maximum speed to be erected and maintained before each end of
the structure.
   (C)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of division (A),
proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the Department or the City
Council and the existence of such signs shall constitute conclusive evidence of
the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety on the bridge or
structure.
(Neb. RS 60-6,189) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.023 ALTERNATIVE MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Whenever the Department of Roads determines, upon the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation, that any maximum speed limit is greater
or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist at any
intersection, place, or part of the state highway system outside of the
corporate limits of cities and villages as well as inside the corporate limits
of cities and villages on freeways which are part of the state highway system,
it may determine and set a reasonable and safe maximum speed limit for such
intersection, place, or part of such highway which shall be the lawful speed
limit when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected at such
intersection, place, or part of the highway, except that the maximum rural and
freeway limits shall not be exceeded. Such a maximum speed limit may be set to
be effective at all times or at such times as are indicated upon such signs.
   (B)   On all highways within its corporate limits, except on state-
maintained freeways which are part of the state highway system, the City
Council shall have the same power and duty to alter the maximum speed limits as
the Department if the change is based on engineering and traffic investigation,
except that no imposition of speed limits on highways which are part of the
state highway system in the city shall be effective without the approval of the
Department.
   (C)   Not more than 6 such speed limits shall be set per mile along a
highway, except in the case of reduced limits at intersections, and the
difference between adjacent limits shall not be more than 20 miles per hour.
   (D)   When the Department or the City Council determines by an investigation
that certain vehicles in addition to those specified in Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-
6,305, and 60-6,313 cannot with safety travel at the speeds provided in §§ 
71.21 and
71.22 and Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,305, and 60-6,313 or set pursuant to this
section, §
71.22, or Neb. RS 60-6,188, the Department or the City Council may restrict the
speed limit for such vehicles on highways under its respective jurisdiction and
post proper and adequate signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,190)
§ 71.024 NEAR SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing
premises on which school buildings are located and which are used for school
purposes, during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the opening or closing hours, to drive the vehicle at a rate of speed in
excess of 15 miles per hour past the premises.
   (B)   The driver shall stop at all stop signs located at or near such school
premises, and it shall be unlawful for the driver to make a U-turn at any
intersection where such stop signs are located at or near such school premises.
(1992 Code, § 5-218) Penalty, see §
70.99
**** TURNING ****
§ 71.040 TURNING METHOD.
   (A)   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall
approach the intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right-hand side
of the highway and must turn the corner as near the right-hand curb as possible
to keep between the curb to the right and the center of the intersection of the
2 streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left shall approach
the center line of the highway, and in turning shall pass as near as possible
to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable to the
right thereof before turning the vehicle to the left.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION. The meeting point of the medial lines of the
highways intersecting one another.
(Neb. RS 39-650) (1992 Code, § 5-204) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.041 U-TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction,
except at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in
the opposite direction at any intersection where a sign is posted indicating
that U-turns are prohibited.
(Neb. RS 60,160 and 60-689) (1992 Code, § 5-203) (Am. Ord. 580, passed 2-22-
2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
**** RIGHT OF WAY; POSITION OF VEHICLE ON ROADWAY ****
§ 71.055 POSITION ON ROADWAY IN GENERAL; RIGHT SIDE.
   Upon all highways of sufficient width, 1-way streets excepted, the driver of
a vehicle shall drive the same on the right half of the roadway. In passing or
meeting other vehicles, drivers shall give each other at least 1/2 of the main
traveled portion of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60,613 and 60-689) (1992 Code, § 5-220) (Am. Ord. 582, passed 2-22-
2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.056 EMERGENCY VEHICLES; RIGHT OF WAY.
   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle, every vehicle within
1 block of the route of the emergency vehicle shall immediately stop, except at
the time they are on or crossing a street intersection, in which event, the
vehicle shall drive clear of the street intersection and then stop. Every
vehicle along the route of the emergency vehicle shall immediately move to a
position as near the right- hand curb as possible and remain there until the
authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles have passed; provided, those vehicles
are operated on official business and the drivers thereof make use of proper
visual or audible signals.
(Neb. RS 60,151 and 60-689) (1992 Code, § 5-208) (Am. Ord. 593, passed 2-22-
2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.057 RIGHT OF WAY; INTERSECTIONS.
   When 2 vehicles approach or enter an intersection at approximately the same
time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right of way to the
vehicle on the right when the paths of the vehicles intersect and there is
danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a city police officer
stationed at the intersection. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the
left within an intersection, or into an alley, private road, or driveway, shall
yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an
immediate hazard. The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right
of way to a pedestrian crossing that street within any clearly marked
crosswalk, or at any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where
the movement of traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic
direction devices. Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a
pedestrian crossing, crosswalk, or intersection shall yield the right of way to
vehicles upon the street. The driver of a vehicle entering a city street from a
private road or drive shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching
on the streets. The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield the right of
way to authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon official
business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or audible signals.
(Neb. RS 60,146 and 60-689) (1992 Code, § 5-206) (Am. Ord. 482, passed - -; Am.
Ord. 592, passed 2-22-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.058 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Vehicles moving slowly shall keep as close as possible to the curb on
the right, allowing more swiftly moving vehicles free passage to their left.
Vehicles in motion shall be kept between the curb at the right and the center
of the street.
(Neb. RS 39-622 and 39-697) (1992 Code, § 5-207)
   (B)   Vehicles moving slowly shall keep as close as possible to the curb on
the right, allowing more swiftly moving vehicles free passage to their left.
(Neb. RS 39-622 and 39-697) (1992 Code, § 5-222)
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.059 OVERTAKING VEHICLES; RIGHT OF WAY.
   The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by another vehicle
approaching from the rear shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60,6132-36 and 60-689) (1992 Code, § 5-209) (Am. Ord. 584, passed 2-
22-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.060 PASSING AND OVERTAKING; POSITION ON ROADWAY.
   A vehicle shall not be driven to the left of the center line of the highway
in overtaking or passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction,
unless the left side is clearly visible and free from oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance to permit the overtaking and passing to be made in safety.
(Neb. RS 60,6132-36 and 60-689) (1992 Code, § 5-221) (Am. Ord. 583, passed 2-
22-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.061 STOPS; CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   All vehicles before crossing a sidewalk, or emerging from a garage, alley,
filling station, or other place within the congested district, shall come to a
complete stop, and after giving sufficient warning shall proceed slowly and
with extreme caution while crossing that sidewalk, or leaving that garage,
alley, filling station, or other place. The term “slowly” shall be construed to
mean a rate of speed as is reasonable and proper under the circumstances and
the condition of the street and traffic thereon.
(Neb. RS 39-638) (1992 Code, § 5-210) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.062 DRIVING ON SHOULDER PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall drive on the shoulders of highways, except:
   (A)   Vehicles may be driven onto the shoulders of roadways:
      (1)   By federal mail carriers while delivering the U.S. mail; or
      (2)   To safely remove a vehicle from traffic lanes.
   (B)   Implements of husbandry may be driven onto the shoulders of roadways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,142 and 60-689) (1992 Code, § 5-234) (Am. Ord. 585, passed 2-22-
2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.063 JAYWALKING.
   Every pedestrian who crosses any other street at any point other than a
crosswalk shall yield the right of way to vehicles.
(Neb. RS 39-643 and 39-697) (1992 Code, § 5-219) Penalty, see §
71.999
**** OPERATING RULES ****
§ 71.075 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate an
indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of reckless driving, and as such shall be punished as
provided by statute.
(Neb. RS 39-669.01, 39-669.02, and 39-669.26) (1992 Code, § 5-224) Penalty, see
§
71.999
§ 71.076 WILLFUL RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
willful disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be deemed to be
guilty of willful, reckless driving, and shall be punished as provided by
statute.
(Neb. RS 39-669.03 through 39-669.06) (1992 Code, § 5-225) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.077 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle in this city carelessly or without
due caution so as to endanger a person or property shall be guilty of careless
driving.
(Neb. RS 39-669) (1992 Code, § 5-226) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.078 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
want of ordinary care and caution that a person of ordinary prudence would use
under like circumstances shall be deemed guilty of negligent driving.
(Neb. RS 39-669.26) (1992 Code, § 5-227) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.079 BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the city
streets except to park in or to remove the vehicle from a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway, or to back to the curb for
unloading where that unloading is permitted; provided, a vehicle shall be
backed only when that movement can be made in safety, and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed 1.5 lengths of the vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,169 and 60-689) (1992 Code, § 5-228) (Am. Ord. 576, passed 2-22-
2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.080 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle, except police vehicles, Fire Department vehicles, when
responding to emergency calls or orders in their several departments,
ambulances responding to emergency calls, or vehicles carrying U.S. mails shall
be driven through a funeral procession or cortege except with the permission of
a police officer.
(Neb. RS 39-629 and 39-697) (1992 Code, § 5-229) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.081 CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OCCUPANT PROTECTION SYSTEM. Has the meaning provided in Neb. RS 60-6,265.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who drives any motor vehicle which has or is required
to have an occupant protection system shall ensure that:
      (a)   All children up to 6 years of age being transported by that vehicle
use a child passenger restraint system of a type which meets Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard 213 as developed by the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration, as that standard existed on January 1, 2004, and which is
correctly installed in the vehicle; and
      (b)   All children 6 years of age and less than 18 years of age being
transported by that vehicle use an occupant protection system.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) shall apply to every motor vehicle which is
equipped with an occupant protection system or is required to be equipped with
restraint systems pursuant to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208, as
that standard existed on January 1, 2004, except taxicabs, mopeds, motorcycles,
and any motor vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a 1963 year model or
earlier which is not equipped with an occupant protection system.
   (C)   Whenever any licensed physician determines, through accepted medical
procedures, that use of a child passenger restraint system by a particular
child would be harmful by reason of the child’s weight, physical condition, or
other medical reason, the provisions of division (B) shall be waived. The
driver of any vehicle transporting such a child shall carry on his or her
person or in the vehicle a signed written statement of the physician
identifying the child and stating the grounds for the waiver.
   (D)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall not be subject to
the requirements of division (B) when operating those authorized emergency
vehicles pursuant to their employment.
   (E)   A driver of a motor vehicle shall not be subject to the requirements
of division (B) if the motor vehicle is being operated in a parade or
exhibition and the parade or exhibition is being conducted in accordance with
applicable state law and local ordinances and resolutions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,267)
   (F)   (1)   A person violating any provision of division (B) is guilty of an
offense. The failure to provide a child restraint system for more than 1 child
in the same vehicle at the same time, as required in division (B), shall not be
treated as a separate offense.
      (2)   Enforcement of division (B)(1)(b) shall be accomplished only as a
secondary action when an operator of a motor vehicle has been cited or charged
with a violation of some other offense unless the violation involves a person
under the age of 18 years riding in or on any portion of the vehicle not
designed or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion.
(Neb. RS 60-6,268)
(1992 Code, § 5-232) (Am. Ord. 602, passed 6-19-2001) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.082 MOTORCYCLES; HELMET REQUIRED.
   A person shall not operate or be a passenger on a motorcycle or moped on any
highway, as defined in Neb. RS 60-624, unless that person is wearing a
protective helmet of the type and design manufactured for use by operators of
such vehicles and unless the helmet is secured properly on his or her head with
a chin strap while the vehicle is in motion. All such protective helmets shall
be designed to reduce injuries to the user resulting from head impacts and
shall be designed to protect the user by remaining on the user’s head,
deflecting blows, resisting penetration, and spreading the force of impact.
Each helmet shall consist of lining, padding, visor, and chin strap and shall
meet or exceed the standards established in the U.S. Department of
Transportation’s Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 218, 49 C.F.R. pt.
571.218, for motorcycle helmets.
(Neb. RS 60-6,279 and 60-6,282) (1992 Code, § 5-233) (Am. Ord. 587, passed 2-
22-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.083 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE; PERSONS UNDER 21.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to operate
or be in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle:
      (1)   When that person has a concentration of 0.02 gram or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of his or her blood but less than the
concentration prescribed under Neb. RS 60-6,196(1)(b); or
      (2)   When that person has a concentration of 0.02 gram or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of his or her breath but less than the concentration
prescribed under Neb. RS 60-6,196(1)(c).
   (B)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in the state shall be deemed to have given his or her consent to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood or breath for the
purposes of determining the concentration of alcohol in such blood or breath.
   (C)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violations of traffic laws of this state or of ordinances of the city may
require any person under 21 years of age to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood or breath for the purpose of determining the concentration
of alcohol in such blood or breath when the officer has probable cause to
believe that the person was driving or was in actual physical control of a
motor vehicle in the city in violation of this section. That peace officer may
require the person to submit to a preliminary breath test. Any person who
refuses to submit to such a preliminary breath test or whose preliminary breath
test results indicate an alcohol concentration in violation of this section
shall be placed under arrest.
   (D)   Any person arrested as provided in this section may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood or breath for a determination of the concentration of
alcohol. If the chemical test discloses the presence of a concentration of
alcohol in violation of this section, or the person refuses to submit to the
test or tests required pursuant to this section, the person shall be guilty of
an offense.
   (E)   Upon the conviction of any person for the violation of this section,
there shall be assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by any
physician or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued in
accordance with Neb. RS 60-6,201, for the test administered.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.01, 60-6,211.02, and 60-6,203) (Ord. 566, passed 11-16-1999)
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.084 ENGINE BRAKE USE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use dynamic braking devices, also
known as engine retarders and commonly known as “Jake Brakes,” within the city
limits.
(Ord. 559, passed 5-4-1999) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter for which no other penalty is prescribed
shall be punishable as set forth in §
70.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of § 71.042 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined $25 for each offense together with the costs of the action.
(1992 Code, § 5-203) (Am. Ord. 580, passed 2-22-2000)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of §
71.055 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined $25 for each offense together with the costs of the action.
(1992 Code, § 5-220) (Am. Ord. 582, passed 2-22-2000)
   (D)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of §
71.056 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined $75 for each offense together with the costs of the action.
(1992 Code, § 5-208) (Am. Ord. 593, passed 2-22-2000)
   (E)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of §
71.057 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined $25 for each offense together with the costs of the action.
(1992 Code, § 5-206) (Am. Ord. 482, passed - -; Am. Ord. 592, passed 2-22-2000)
   (F)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of §
71.059 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined $25 for each offense together with the costs of the action.
(1992 Code, § 5-209) (Am. Ord. 584, passed 2-22-2000)
   (G)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of §
71.060 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined $25 for each offense together with the costs of the action.
(1992 Code, § 5-221) (Am. Ord. 583, passed 2-22-2000)
   (H)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of §
71.062 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined $25 for each offense together with the costs of the action.
(1992 Code, § 5-234) (Am. Ord. 585, passed 2-22-2000)
   (I)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of §
71.079 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined $25 for each offense together with the costs of the action.
(1992 Code, § 5-228) (Am. Ord. 576, passed 2-22-2000)
   (J)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of §
71.082 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined $50 for each offense together with the costs of the action.
(1992 Code, § 5-233) (Am. Ord. 587, passed 2-22-2000)
   (K)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of §
71.082 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined $50 for each offense together with the costs of the action.
(1992 Code, § 5-233) (Am. Ord. 587, passed 2-22-2000)
CHAPTER 72: BICYCLES, SNOWMOBILES, AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Operation on streets; conditions and restrictions
   
72.03   Registration
   
72.04   Accident report
   
72.05   Sidewalks; operation prohibited
   
72.06   Golf car vehicles
Bicycles
   
72.20   License required
   
72.21   License application; fee; issuance
   
72.22   Attachment of license plate; bicycle inspection
   
72.23   Transfer of ownership
   
72.24   Operating rules
   
72.25   Clinging to motor vehicle prohibited
Snowmobiles
   
72.40   Equipment
   
72.41   Unlawful acts
   
72.42   Public lands
 
   
72.99   Penalty
**** ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ****
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All other
terms shall be defined as set forth in the state statutes.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on 3 or more low pressure tires;
      (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and 1
passenger;
      (5)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and
      (6)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering control.
   GOLF CAR VEHICLE. A vehicle that has at least four wheels, has a maximum
level ground speed of less than 20 mph, has a maximum payload capacity of 1,200
pounds, has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds, has a maximum
passenger capacity of not more than four persons, and is designed and
manufactured for operation on a golf course for sporting and recreational
purposes.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard or way, which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is not less than 48 inches nor more than 74 inches in width;
      (2)   Is not more than 135 inches, including bumper, in length;
      (3)   Has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds nor more than 2,000
pounds;
      (4)   Travels on 4 or more low pressure tires; and
      (5)   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type seating
designed for at least two people to sit side-by-side.
(Neb. RS 60-6,355) (1992 Code, § 5-601) (Am. Ord. 643, passed 8-26-2008; Am.
Ord. 665, passed 11-17-2010; Am. Ord. 779, passed 6-16-2020)
§ 72.02 OPERATION ON STREETS; CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles maybe operated on the streets
and highways within the corporate limits of the city under the following
conditions:
   (A)   The operation of all-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles shall
occur only between the hours of sunrise and sunset.
   (B)   The operator of an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle shall
have a valid class 0 operator’s license or a farm permit as provided in Neb. RS
60-4,126.
   (C)   Liability insurance coverage for all-terrain vehicles or utility-type
vehicles shall be effective during all operation.
   (D)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles shall not be operated
in excess of 30 miles per hour and must be operated in compliance with all
speed limits established within the city.
   (E)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle
shall provide proof of insurance coverage to any peace officer requesting such
proof within 5 days of such request.
   (F)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles shall be equipped with
a head light and a tail light which shall be on and in working order at all
times during the operation of the vehicle.
   (G)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles shall be equipped with
a bicycle safety flag which extends not less than 6 feet above ground and shall
be attached to the rear of the vehicle, which flag shall be triangular in shape
with an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be day-glow in color.
   (H)   The operation of all-terrain vehicles or utility-type vehicle shall
comply with all rules of the road, ordinances and statutes established by the
city and the state.
   (I)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles shall be equipped with
a brake system maintained in good operating condition; an adequate muffler
system in good working condition; and a United States Forrest Service qualified
spark arrestor.
   (J)   No all-terrain vehicle nor utility-type vehicle shall have an exhaust
system with a cut out, bypass or similar device.
   (K)   No all-terrain vehicle nor utility-type vehicle shall have the spark
arrestor removed or modified.
   (L)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles shall be equipped with
working brake lights.
   (M)   No all-terrain vehicle nor utility-type vehicle shall be operated by
any person under the age of 19 years.
   (N)   Operator and passenger of an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type
vehicle shall each wear a helmet approved by the state for use while operating
a motorcycle.
   (O)   No operation shall occur on any controlled access highway with more
than 2 marked traffic lanes.
(Neb. RS 60-6,356) (1992 Code, § 5-602) (Am. Ord. 485, passed - -; Am. Ord.
643, passed 8-26-2008; Am. Ord. 665, passed 11-17-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All all-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles and golf car
vehicles operated within the limits of the city shall be registered with the
City Clerk who will issue an identifying emblem to be placed on the all-terrain
vehicles, utility-type vehicles and golf car vehicles as directed by the Chief
of Police or his or her designee. The emblem shall be visible and not
obstructed in any manner including but not limited to mud, dirt, debris, or
equipment. The registration of the all-terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle
and golf car vehicle shall be valid for the calendar year in which it is
issued. The all-terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle and golf car vehicle
shall be registered each calendar year. The fee for registration of the all-
terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle and golf car vehicle shall be paid at the
time of registration and shall be $25. A written certificate from the Police
Department shall be presented to the City Clerk at the time of registration
status that the all-terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle and golf car vehicle
meets the requirements established by the state and city.
   (B)   All all-terrain vehicles, utility-type vehicles or golf car vehicles
operated within the corporate limits shall be registered as required by the
state statutes.
(Ord. 643, passed 8-26-2008; Am. Ord. 665, passed 11-17-2010; Am. Ord. 779,
passed 6-16-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   If an accident occurs within the corporate limits that results in the death
of any person or the injury of any person which requires the treatment of the
person by a physician, the operator of the all-terrain vehicle, utility-type
vehicle or golf car vehicle involved in the accident shall give notice of the
accident in the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-699.
(Neb. RS 60-2807) (1992 Code, § 5-607) (Am. Ord. 643, passed 8-26-2008; Am.
Ord. 665, passed 11-17-2010; Am. Ord. 779, passed 6-16-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 SIDEWALKS; OPERATION PROHIBITED.
   No all-terrain vehicles, utility-type vehicles or golf car vehicles shall be
operated on the sidewalks when in the corporate limits.
(Ord. 643, passed 8-26-2008; Am. Ord. 665, passed 11-17-2010; Am. Ord. 779,
passed 6-16-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 GOLF CAR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No golf car vehicle may be operated on any street or road in the city
unless in accordance with this section.
   (B)   All golf car vehicles operated under this section shall:
      (1)   Be operated only between the hours of sunrise and sunset;
      (2)   Be operated at a speed no greater than 20 miles per hour and only
operated on streets with a posted speed limit of 35 miles per hour or less;
      (3)   Have an equipped and working headlight and taillight;
      (4)   Have an equipped bicycle safety flag triangular in shape and not
less than 30 square inches in size, which extends not less than five feet above
ground and is in a conspicuous day-glow color;
      (5)   Be operated by a person with a valid Class O operator's license;
      (6)   Have the operator and any passenger each wear a helmet approved by
the state for use while operating a motorcycle;
      (7)   Have liability insurance coverage for the operation of the golf car
vehicle on the public street or road, and the person operating such golf car
vehicle shall carry proof of such coverage or supply proof of such coverage
within five days after request from any peace officer.
   (C)   In the following circumstances, all golf car vehicles operated under
this section may be operated without complying with the requirements of
divisions (B) or (D) of this section:
      (1)   The temporary crossing of any street or road, provided the crossing
is made at an angle 90 degrees from the direction of the street or road, the
crossing is at a place where no obstruction prevents a safe and quick crossing,
the operator comes to a complete stop before the crossing, the operator during
the crossing yields right-of-way to all traffic on the street or road, the
crossing is made at a clear, unimpeded intersection if it involves a divided
street or road, and the headlight and taillight are equipped and working during
the crossing.
   (2)   The participation in a parade or community event which has been
authorized by the State of Nebraska, or any department, board, commission, or
political subdivision of the State of Nebraska, including the city.
      (3)   The use of golf car vehicle to assist in the provision of safety or
aid during any public emergency, such as a flood, snow emergency, threatening
fire, or other severe weather event.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no golf car
vehicle may be operated on a state or federal highway or on any portion of
Nebraska Highway 30 within the corporate limits of the city unless for the sole
purpose of crossing Nebraska Highway 30 at a clear, unimpeded intersection.
   (E)   Before any golf car vehicle may be operated within the corporate
limits of the city, the operator or owner must register with the City Clerk
pursuant to §
72.03 herein.
(Ord. 779, passed 6-16-2020)
**** BICYCLES ****
§ 72.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on any street, alley, sidewalk, or
public path within the city unless that bicycle has been licensed and a license
plate is attached thereto.
(1992 Code, § 5-801) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21 LICENSE APPLICATION; FEE; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Application for a bicycle license and license plate shall be made upon
a form provided by the city and shall be made to the City Clerk. An annual fee
of $1 shall be paid to the city before each license or renewal thereof is
granted. The City Clerk upon receiving proper application therefor is
authorized to issue a bicycle license which shall be effective for the current
calendar year. All bicycle licenses shall expire on the last day of the
calendar year and may be renewed on or before the first day of the succeeding
year upon application and payment of the annual $1 license fee.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall keep a record of the number of each license, the
date issued, the name and address of the person to whom issued, the number of
the frame of the bicycle or some equivalent identification of the bicycle for
which issued, and a record of all bicycle license fees collected by him or her.
A copy of this record shall be furnished the Chief of Police, together with all
current changes.
(1992 Code, § 5-802)
§ 72.22 ATTACHMENT OF LICENSE PLATE; BICYCLE INSPECTION.
   The City Clerk, upon issuing a license, shall also issue a license plate
bearing the license number assigned to the bicycle, the name of the city, and
the calendar year for which issued. This license plate shall be firmly attached
to the rear mud guard or frame of the bicycle for which issued in such a
position as to be plainly visible from the rear. No person shall remove a
license plate from a bicycle during the period for which issued except upon a
transfer of ownership or in the event the bicycle is dismantled and no longer
operated within the city. If the City Clerk considers it necessary, he or she
shall cause inspection to be made of each bicycle before licensing the same,
and a license for any bicycle shall be refused if that bicycle is in unsafe
mechanical condition. The inspection shall be made by the Chief of Police, or
an officer assigned that responsibility.
(1992 Code, § 5-803) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.23 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   The licensee shall remove the license plate and shall either surrender the
same to the City Clerk or may, upon proper application, but without payment of
additional fee, have the plate assigned to another bicycle owned by the
applicant.
(1992 Code, § 5-804) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.24 OPERATING RULES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on a street or highway within the
city with another person on the handlebars or in any position in front of the
operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be operated faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and highways.
   (C)   Persons operating bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be operated on any street or highway from sunset to
sunrise without a headlight visible from the front thereof for not less than
500 feet on a clear night and a red reflector on the rear of a type which shall
be visible on a clear night from all distances between 100 feet and 600 feet to
the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlights on a motor
vehicle. A red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to the red reflector.
   (E)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a street or highway shall not
ride more than single file except on parts of streets or highways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (F)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway at less than the
normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under conditions then
existing shall ride as near to the right-hand curb or right- hand edge of the
roadway as practicable except when:
      (1)   Overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
      (2)   Preparing for a left turn onto a private road or driveway or at an
intersection;
      (3)   Reasonably necessary to avoid conditions that make it unsafe to
continue along the right- hand curb or right-hand edge of the roadway,
including fixed or moving objects, stopped or moving vehicles, bicycles,
pedestrians, animals, or surface hazards;
      (4)   Riding upon a lane of substandard width which is too narrow for a
bicycle and a vehicle to travel safely by side within the lane; or
      (5)   Lawfully operating a bicycle on the paved shoulders of a highway
included in the state highway system as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,142.
   (G)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway with a posted speed
limit of 35 miles per hour or less on which traffic is restricted to 1
direction of movement and which has 2 or more marked traffic lanes may ride as
near to the left-hand curb or left-hand edge of the roadway as practicable.
Whenever a person operating a bicycle leaves the roadway to ride on the paved
shoulder or leaves the paved shoulder to enter the roadway, the person shall
clearly signal his or her intention and yield the right of way to all other
vehicles.
   (H)   No person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk unless a bicycle stand
is located on that sidewalk.
   (I)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks within the business
district.
(Neb. RS 60-6,315, 60-6,317, and 60-6,318) (1992 Code, § 5-805) (Am. Ord. 484,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.25 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   No person riding upon any bicycle or roller skates shall attach the same or
himself or herself to any moving vehicle upon any roadway, and it shall be
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to suffer or permit any person traveling
upon any bicycle or roller skates to cling to or attach himself or herself, or
his or her bicycle or roller skates, to the vehicle so driven and operated by
him or her.
(Neb. RS 39-689) Penalty, see §
72.99
**** SNOWMOBILES ****
§ 72.40 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every snowmobile operated within the city shall be registered with the
state, as required by law. No snowmobile shall be operated upon a public street
or highway unless it is equipped with at least 1 head lamp, 1 tail lamp,
reflector material of a minimum area of 16 square inches mounted on each side
forward of the handle bars, and with brakes as prescribed by the Director of
Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   All laws applying to the operation of other motor vehicles shall apply
to snowmobiles, except those relating to required equipment and those which, by
their nature, have no application.
(Neb. RS 60-2002 and 60-2013) (1992 Code, § 5-701) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.41 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to allow a snowmobile,
either owned or operated by him or her, to be operated:
   (A)   Within the congested area of the city unless weather conditions are
such that it provides the only practicable method of safe vehicular travel, or
the snowmobile is engaged in responding to an emergency;
   (B)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under the
surrounding circumstances;
   (C)   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger person
or property;
   (D)   Without a lighted headlight and taillight when they would be required
by conditions;
   (E)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or destroys
growing stock; or
   (F)   Upon any private lands without first having obtained permission of the
owner, lessee, or operator of those lands.
(Neb. RS 60-2013 and 60-2015) (1992 Code, § 5-702) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.42 PUBLIC LANDS.
   Snowmobiles shall be prohibited from operation on the public lands owned by
the city, except where allowed by resolution of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 60-2016) (1992 Code, § 5-703) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter for which no other penalty is prescribed
shall be punishable as set forth in §
70.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
72.02 -
72.05 of this code shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $500 and assessed the
court costs of prosecution, provided, however, if any person is convicted of a
second or subsequent offense within the period of three years, the minimum fine
for the second or subsequent offense shall be $200.
(Neb. RS 60-2808) (1992 Code, § 5-608) (Ord. 643, passed 8-26-2008; Am. Ord.
665, passed 11-17-2010)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Regulation or prohibition authorized
   
73.02   Roadway outside business or residential district
   
73.03   General prohibitions; exceptions
   
73.04   Obstructing street, intersection, or entrance
   
73.05   Intersections
   
73.06   Display or repair of vehicle
   
73.07   Current registration
   
73.08   Time limits
   
73.09   Snow; weather emergencies; highway maintenance
   
73.10   Parallel, angle, and center parking
   
73.11   Backing freight vehicle to curb
   
73.12   Unattended motor vehicle
   
73.13   Painting of curbs
   
73.14   City parking lots; use restrictions
   
73.15   Double parking prohibited
   
73.16   Designation of type of parking
   
73.17   Alleys; restrictions
   
73.18   Fire hydrants and stations
   
73.19   Schools, theaters
   
73.20   Street parking prohibitions
Truck Parking and Loading
   
73.30   Truck parking, loading and unloading
   
73.31   Residential zones
   
73.32   Alleys
Parking for Handicapped or Disabled Persons
   
73.45   Definitions
   
73.46   Designation of on-street parking spaces
   
73.47   Designation of off-street parking spaces
   
73.48   Removal of unauthorized vehicle
   
73.49   Citation; complaint; trial
Administration and Enforcement
   
73.65   Tickets
   
73.66   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
**** GENERAL REGULATIONS ****
§ 73.01 REGULATION OR PROHIBITION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The City Council with respect to highways under its jurisdiction and
within the reasonable exercise of the police power may regulate or prohibit
stopping, standing, or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   If the City Council regulates or prohibits stopping, standing, or
parking all vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or
a portion of a highway, no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle subject
to such regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than
a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
(1992 Code, § 5-403) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 ROADWAY OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   No person shall stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, upon a roadway outside of a business or residential
district when it is practicable to stop, park, or leave such vehicle off such
part of a highway, but in any event an unobstructed width of the roadway
opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other
vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a
distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway. Such parking,
stopping, or standing shall in no event exceed 24 hours.
   (B)   No person shall stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle on a freeway
except in areas designated or unless so directed by a peace officer, except
that when a vehicle is disabled or inoperable or the driver of the vehicle is
ill or incapacitated, such vehicle shall be permitted to park, stop, or stand
on the shoulder facing in the direction of travel with all wheels and
projecting parts of such vehicle completely clear of the traveled lanes, but in
no event shall such parking, standing, or stopping upon the shoulder of a
freeway exceed 12 hours.
   (C)   No person, except law enforcement, fire department, emergency
management, public or private ambulance, or authorized Department of Roads or
local authority personnel, shall loiter or stand or park any vehicle upon any
bridge, highway, or structure which is located above or below or crosses over
or under the roadway of any highway or approach or exit road thereto.
   (D)   Whenever a vehicle is disabled or inoperable in a roadway or for any
reason obstructs the regular flow of traffic for reasons other than an
accident, the driver shall move or cause the vehicle to be moved as soon as
practical so as to not obstruct the regular flow of traffic.
   (E)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the roadway in such manner and to such extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in
such position until such time as it can be removed pursuant to division (D) of
this section.
(Neb. RS 60-6,164) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park any vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
City Council indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure over a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad track; or
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign, or
other traffic control device located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance when properly signposted;
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing; or
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as shall be
unlawful.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 OBSTRUCTING STREET, INTERSECTION, OR ENTRANCE.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection,
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
(1992 Code, § 5-409) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 INTERSECTIONS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall park a vehicle or leave a vehicle standing for any
purpose, except momentarily to load or discharge passengers, within 25 feet of
the intersection of curb lines, or if none, then within 15 feet of the
intersection of property lines, or where the curb lines are painted red or
another color specified by the City Council to indicate such prohibition.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public place
within the city any vehicle displayed for sale. Except when necessary due to a
breakdown or other emergency, no person shall adjust or repair, or race the
motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle while standing on the highways of the
city. No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
(1992 Code, § 5-411) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07 CURRENT REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the highways or other public
property any vehicle required to be registered by the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act that is not registered in accordance with the Act.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 73.08 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
   (B)   If the City Council adopts a resolution entirely prohibiting, or
fixing a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any highway,
it is unlawful to park or stop any vehicle in such highway for a period of time
longer than fixed in the resolution.
(1992 Code, § 5-421) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.09 SNOW; WEATHER EMERGENCIES; HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, it is unlawful to park or
stand any vehicle on any highway in the city at any time within 12 hours after
a snowfall of 3 inches or more has occurred within a 24 hour period if the snow
has not been removed within that time.
   (B)   The Police Chief, the city police, or any other designated person may
order any highway or portion thereof vacated for weather emergencies or highway
maintenance. Notice shall be given by personally notifying the owner or
operator of a vehicle parked on such highway or by posting appropriate signs
along the highway not less than 4 hours prior to the time that the vacation
order is to be effective. It is unlawful to park a vehicle on a highway or
portion thereof vacated in accordance with this division (B).
   (C)   A vehicle parked in violation of this section may be removed and
parked, under the supervision of the city police, to a suitable nearby location
without further notice to the owner or operator of such vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.10 PARALLEL, ANGLE, AND CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any vehicle stopped or
parked upon a 2-way roadway where parking is permitted shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the
right-hand curb or edge of such roadway. No vehicle shall be parked upon a
roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided by the City Council, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a 1-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel
to the curb or edge of such roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic
movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway or its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or edge of such roadway.
   (C)   The City Council may permit angle or center parking on any roadway,
except that angle or center parking shall not be permitted on any federal-aid
highway or on any part of the state highway system unless the Director-State
Engineer has determined that such roadway is of sufficient width to permit
angle or center parking without interfering with the free movement of traffic.
   (D)   The City Council may prohibit or restrict stopping, standing, or
parking on highways under its jurisdiction and erect and maintain proper and
adequate signs thereon. No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle in
violation of the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167)
   (E)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within those stalls.
   (F)   Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
(1992 Code, § 5-401) (Am. Ord. 486, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.11 BACKING FREIGHT VEHICLE TO CURB.
   The operator of a vehicle of an over-all length of less than 20 feet,
including load, while loading or unloading freight may back the vehicle to the
curb but shall occupy as little of the street as possible.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.12 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first stopping the motor of
such vehicle, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition, and
effectively setting the brakes thereon and, when standing upon any roadway,
turning the front wheels of such vehicle to the curb or side of such roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,168) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.13 PAINTING OF CURBS.
   (A)   The curb space within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant
shall be painted red, or another color specified by the City Council, to
indicate that parking is prohibited in such area.
   (B)   If the City Council adopts a resolution regulating or prohibiting the
parking or stopping of vehicles at the curb on highways in front of certain
facilities or at certain locations, the curbs adjacent to any such facility or
location shall be painted in such manner as directed by the City Council to
indicate such regulation or prohibition.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Council or its agent to cause the
curb space to be painted and to keep the same painted as provided in this
chapter or as specified by the City Council. The marking or designating of
portions of highways where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited
shall be done only by the city through its proper officers, at the direction of
the City Council. No person shall paint the curb of any highway or in any
manner set aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in, any highway
or part thereof, except at such places where the parking of vehicles is
prohibited by the provisions of this chapter or by a resolution adopted by the
City Council.
(1992 Code, § 5-410) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.14 CITY PARKING LOTS; USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a violation for any person to cause, allow,
permit, or suffer any vehicle registered in the name of or operated by that
person to be parked in excess of 24 hours on parking lots owned, leased,
controlled, or operated by the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a violation for any person to cause, allow,
permit, or suffer any vehicle registered in the name of or operated by that
person to park any vehicle across any line or marking of a parking space or in
such a position that the vehicle shall not be entirely within the area
designated by the lines or markings.
(1992 Code, § 5-424) (Ord. 423, passed 2-5-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.15 DOUBLE PARKING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to double park any motor vehicle on any
of the streets of the city, except for the period of time that passengers are
actually getting in or out of the motor vehicle.
(1992 Code, § 5-423) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.16 DESIGNATION OF TYPE OF PARKING.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
(1992 Code, § 5-402)
§ 73.17 ALLEYS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle, while parked, shall have any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
(1992 Code, § 5-404)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of 1/2 hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in any alley shall be parked in a manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
(1992 Code, § 5-405)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.18 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station. The
curb space within the area of 15 feet in either direction of the fire hydrant
shall be painted red to indicate this prohibition.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) (1992 Code, § 5-406) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.19 SCHOOLS, THEATERS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, prohibit the parking or stopping except
for loading or unloading of passengers or freight, of vehicles at the curb on
streets directly in front of any entrance to a school house, school building,
or theater, and the curbs adjacent to the entrance of the school house, school
building, or theater shall be painted red to indicate the prohibition.
(1992 Code, § 5-407) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.20 STREET PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)    Recreational vehicles, campers, cabin trailers, motor homes, boats,
personal watercraft, and utility trailers, as defined in Neb. RS Chapter 37 and
Chapter 60, may be parked on public streets within the city from April 1 until
September 30, subject to the maximum time limits defined in city code §
73.07, only when properly registered and licensed, and only when said parking
does not infringe on any neighboring property rights.
   (B)    Recreational vehicles, campers, cabin trailers, motor homes, boats,
personal watercraft, and utility may not be parked on public streets within the
city from October 1 through March 31.
   (C)    For purposes of this section, PARKING means to stop or stand a
recreational vehicle, camper, cabin trailer, motor home, boat, personal
watercraft, or utility, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers.
   (D)   Violators of this section may be issued a citation, ordered to remove
the violation, and/or be subject to towing of the vehicle by the city or its
agent, with all reasonable cost of towing, storage, and removal being charged
to the violating individual, and payable to the city, within 30 days from the
date of removal.
(Ord. 789, passed 6-15-2021)
**** TRUCK PARKING AND LOADING ****
§ 73.30 TRUCK PARKING, LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall
length of more than 20 feet to park or stop such vehicle on a street within the
business district except to load or unload when loading or unloading in an
alley is impossible and then only for the period of time reasonably necessary
to load or unload.
   (B)   If the City Council provides truck parking areas adjoining or adjacent
to the business district, all truck operators shall use such parking areas for
all parking purposes.
   (C)   Except in an area provided for by the City Council by resolution, it
shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck, including an oil tanker, to
park or stop for any period of time within the limits of any street outside the
business district except for the purpose of loading or unloading the cargo
thereof in the ordinary course of business.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Truck parking; business zones, see
Chapter 75, Sched. I
§ 73.31 RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park semi-trailers on any street or
alley within any residential zone within the city, unless the trailer is in
that residential zone for the purpose of making a service call, pickup or
delivery of merchandise, or being used in connection with construction. The
provisions of this section shall apply to all semi-trailers, whether loaded or
unloaded.
(1992 Code, § 5-501) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.32 ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle of any kind or
description in any alley or entrance thereto anywhere in the city, except when
the driver of that vehicle is engaged in the pickup and delivery of
merchandise, and only for such time as is reasonably necessary to complete that
pickup and/or delivery and provide service or repairs. Notwithstanding anything
contained in this section to the contrary, no driver of any vehicle, except
emergency vehicles, shall park any motor vehicle in any alley or entrance
thereto anywhere in the city, so as to completely block motor vehicle passage
through the alley.
(1992 Code, § 5-503) Penalty, see §
70.99
**** PARKING FOR HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS ****
§ 73.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS AISLE. A space adjacent to a handicapped parking space or passenger
loading zone which is constructed and designed in compliance with the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the federal rules and regulations
adopted and promulgated in response to the Act.
(Neb. RS 18-1736)
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual or
physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results in an inability
to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair,
crutch, walker, or prosthetic, orthotic, or other assistant device, any
individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems, any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his or
her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV, according to standards set by the American Heart Association, and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of 1 or
more limbs.
(Neb. RS 18-1738)
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this
subchapter regulating the use of parking spaces, including access aisles,
designated for use by handicapped or disabled persons; the unauthorized
possession, use, or display of handicapped or disabled parking permits; or the
obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in accordance and in
conformity with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
(Neb. RS 18-1741.01)
   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such manner for no
longer than 1 year.
(Neb. RS 18-1738)
(1992 Code, § 5-414) (Am. Ord. 489, passed - -; Am. Ord. 544, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 73.46 DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   The City Council may designate parking spaces, including access
aisles, for the exclusive use of handicapped or disabled persons whose motor
vehicles display the distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or
disabled persons pursuant to Neb. RS 60-311.14; handicapped or disabled persons
whose motor vehicles display a distinguishing license plate issued to a
handicapped or disabled person by another state; such other handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, as certified
by the city, whose motor vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. RS 18-
1739; and such other motor vehicles, as certified by the city, which display
this type of permit. All such permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit
from the motor vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through
the front windshield. The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when
there is no rearview mirror.
   (B)   If the City Council so designates a parking space or access aisle, it
shall be indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from each space or access aisle a sign as described in Neb. RS 18-1737.
In addition to this sign, the space or access aisle may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space or access aisle.
(Neb. RS 18-1736) (1992 Code, § 5-412) (Am. Ord. 487, passed - -; Am. Ord. 542,
passed 3-17-1998; Am. Ord. 567, passed 11-16-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.47 DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   The city and any person in lawful possession of any off-street parking
facility may designate stalls or spaces, including access aisles, in that
facility owned or operated by the city or person, for the exclusive use of
handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the distinguishing
license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS 60-311.14; such
other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled
persons, as certified by the city, whose motor vehicles display the permit
specified in Neb. RS 18-1739; and such other motor vehicles, as certified by
the city, which display this type of permit. This designation shall be made by
posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and visible from each stall or
space, including access aisles, a sign which is in conformance with the
requirements in Neb. RS 18-1737.
(Neb. RS 18-1737) (1992 Code, § 5-413) (Am. Ord. 488, passed - -; Am. Ord. 543,
passed 3-17-1998) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.48 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the city police, and the city, if it provides on-
street parking or owns, operates, or provides an off-street parking facility,
may cause the removal from a stall or space, including access aisles,
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons,
of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the distinguishing license
plates specified in this subchapter if there is posted aboveground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from that stall or space, including access
aisles, a sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as
a tow-in zone.
   (B)   A person who parks a vehicle in any on-street parking space or access
aisle which has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking space or access
aisle in any off-street parking facility, without properly displaying the
proper permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom,
as the case may be, the license plate or permit is issued will not enter or
exit the vehicle while it is parked in the designated space or access aisle,
shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction and shall be subject to the
penalties and procedures set forth in § 73.54. The display on a motor vehicle
of a distinguishing license plate or permit issued to a handicapped or disabled
person by and under the duly constituted authority of another state shall
constitute a full and complete defense in any action for a handicapped parking
infraction. If the identity of the person who parked the vehicle in violation
of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalties and procedures
described in this section.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the city
shall not require the owner or person in lawful possession of the facility to
inform the city of a violation of this section prior to the city issuing the
violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(Neb. RS 18-1737) (1992 Code, § 5-420) (Am. Ord. 472, passed 12-7-1993; Am.
Ord. 491, passed - -; Am. Ord. 551, passed 3-17-1998) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.49 CITATION; COMPLAINT; TRIAL.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the City Council to exercise the authority to
issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
   (B)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged, and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court. Unless the person cited requests an earlier date,
the time of appearance shall be at least 3 days after the issuance of the
handicapped parking citation. One copy of the handicapped parking citation
shall be delivered to the person cited or attached to the offending motor
vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the City Attorney or other person authorized by law to issue a
complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a complaint charging
the person with a handicapped parking infraction, or that person shall be
released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury. A person cited for a handicapped parking violation
may waive his or her right to trial.
   (E)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped parking
infraction by reason of the failure of a vehicle to display a handicapped
parking permit issued pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-1738.01, the complaint
shall be dismissed if, within 7 business days after the date of issuance of the
citation, the person cited files with the court the affidavit included on the
citation, signed by a peace officer certifying that the recipient is the lawful
possessor in his or her own right of a handicapped parking permit issued under
Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-1738.01 and that the peace officer has personally viewed
the permit.
(Neb. RS 18-1741.01, 18-1741.04, and 18-1741.06) (1992 Code, § 5-420.01) (Ord.
492, passed - -; Am. Ord. 550, passed 3-17-1998) Penalty, see §
70.99
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 73.65 TICKETS.
   All tickets issued for violations of nonmoving traffic regulations contained
in this chapter shall, in addition to information normally stated on such
tickets, carry the following information:
   (A)   The amount of the fine if paid within 30 days;
   (B)   The amount of the fine if not paid within 30 days;
   (C)   The location where payment may be made; and
   (D)   The fact that a complaint will be filed after 30 days if the fine is
not paid in that time.
§ 73.66 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer, or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the city and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed, or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior
to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled
to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165)
(1992 Code, § 5-422)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   There are hereby established within the city, speed zones, and it
shall be unlawful to operate motor vehicles upon and over the streets located
within the speed zones at a rate of speed in excess of that hereinafter
designated.
   (B)   The speed zones established by this schedule and the maximum speeds
permitted therein are as follows.
Street or Highway Location Speed Limit
Street or Location                                                                       Speed
Highway                                                                                  Limit
                                                                                         15 mph
                                                                                         between
          Commencing at the east side of the intersection of 6th Street and Maple Street the
6th       to 150 feet west of the northeast corner of Lot 1, Hull’s Subdivision of 32- hours
Street    15-15                                                                          of 7:00
                                                                                         a.m.
                                                                                         and 5:
                                                                                         00 p.m.
South Oak Commencing 150 feet south of the intersection of 9th Street and Oak Street to  35 mph
Street    the intersection of Oak Street and Highway 71
State
Highway
71        Between a point 350 feet south of the south line of 9th Street and 6th Street  40 mph
(Chestnut
Street)
State
Highway
71        Between 6th Street and 3rd Street                                              30 mph
(Chestnut
Street)
State
Highway
71        Between 3rd Street and a point 40 feet north of the north line of Main Street  25 mph
(Chestnut
Street)
State
Highway   Between a point 40 feet north of the north line of Main Street and the north
71        city limits                                                                    40 mph
(Chestnut
Street)
U.S.
Highway   Between the east city limits and East County Road 43                           45 mph
30 (3rd
Street)
U.S.
Highway   Between East County Road 43 and a point 460 feet east of the east line of High 40 mph
30 (3rd   School Street
Street)
U.S.
Highway   Between a point 460 feet east of the east line of High School Street and       35 mph
30 (3rd   Myrtle Street
Street)
U.S.
Highway   Between Myrtle Street and Locust Street                                        30 mph
30 (3rd
Street)
U.S.
Highway   Between Locust Street and Pine Street                                          40 mph
30 (3rd
Street)
U.S.
Highway   Between Pine Street and the west city limits                                   50 mph
30 (3rd
Street)
 
(Ord. 524, passed 9-16-1997; Am. Ord. 633, passed 11-1-2006; Am. Ord. 655,
passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Speed Limits, see §§ 71.025 et seq.
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Truck parking; business zones
SCHEDULE I. TRUCK PARKING; BUSINESS ZONES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park trucks, tractor-trailer
units, truck trailers, pickups, or panel trucks on the streets and alleys and
other public places within the area encompassed by the following boundaries,
except on those streets in this area as are designated by the Mayor and Council
by resolution on which truck parking will be permitted.
 
Truck Parking Prohibited Zone
Commencing on the west line of Oak Street where it intersects the north line of
Third Street, thence west along the north line of Third Street to the point
where it intersects the east line of Howard Street, thence north along the east
line of Howard Street to the point where it intersects the north line of First
Street, thence east along the north line of First Street to the point where it
intersects the west line of Oak Street, thence south along the west line of Oak
Street to the point of beginning
 
   (B)   On those streets in this area where truck parking will be permitted,
appropriate signs will be erected. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to trucks, tractor-trailer units, pickups, or panel trucks in the area
making a service call, engaged in pickup or delivery of merchandise, or being
in connection with construction for which a permit has been issued by the city
as provided by law, and then only for such time as is reasonably required for
the purpose. The provisions of this section shall not apply to pickups having a
capacity of not to exceed 3/4 ton. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to panel trucks having a capacity of not to exceed 1 ton.
(1992 Code, § 5-502) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
91.   CEMETERY
      
92.   FIRE REGULATIONS
      
93.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
94.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
95.   ANIMALS
      
96.   TREE BOARD; TREES
      
97.   FAIR HOUSING
      
98.   ABANDONED AND WRECKED VEHICLES
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
City Library
   
90.01   Funding
   
90.02   Library Board; general powers and duties
   
90.03   Grounds and building
   
90.04   Sale and conveyance of real estate
   
90.05   Mortgages; release or renewal
   
90.06   Cost of use
   
90.07   Discrimination prohibited
   
90.08   Annual report
   
90.09   Penalties; recovery; disposition
   
90.10   Donations
   
90.11   Improper book removal
   
90.12   Surplus or damaged books
Parks and Recreational Facilities
   
90.25   Operation and funding
   
90.26   Injury to property prohibited
   
90.27   Animals; running loose; sanitary disposal of feces
Swimming Pool
   
90.40   Rules and regulations
**** CITY LIBRARY ****
§ 90.01 FUNDING.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council has established a public library free of
charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city or contracted for the use of
a public library already established, the Council may levy a tax of not more
than $0.105 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the taxable property in
the city annually to be levied and collected in like manner as other taxes in
the city. The levy shall be subject to Neb. RS 77-3442 and 77-3443. The amount
collected from such levy shall be known as the library fund.
(Neb. RS 51-201)
      (2)   The fund shall also include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests, or other valuable income-producing property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the public library.
   (B)   All taxes levied or collected and all funds donated or in any way
acquired for the erection, maintenance, or support of the public library shall
be kept for the use of the library separate and apart from all other funds of
the city, shall be drawn upon and paid out by the City Treasurer upon vouchers
signed by the president of the Library Board and authenticated by the secretary
of the Board, and shall not be used or disbursed for any other purpose or in
any other manner. The city may establish a public library sinking fund for
major capital expenditures.
(Neb. RS 51-209)
   (C)   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over at least
monthly by the Librarian to the City Treasurer along with a report of the
sources of the revenue.
(1992 Code, § 3-606)
§ 90.02 LIBRARY BOARD; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt such bylaws,
rules, and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the
library and reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with Neb.
RS 51-201 through 51-219.
(Neb. RS 51-205)
   (B)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all
money collected or donated to the credit of the library fund, of the renting
and construction of any library building, and the supervision, care, and
custody of the grounds, rooms, or buildings constructed, leased, or set apart
for that purpose.
(Neb. RS 51-207)
   (C)   The Library Board shall have the power to appoint a suitable Librarian
and assistants, to fix their compensation, and to remove such appointees at
pleasure. It shall have the power to establish rules and regulations for the
government of the library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and
to maintain its usefulness and efficiency. It shall have the power to fix and
impose, by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for trespasses upon or
injury to the library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, for failure to
return any book, or for violation of any bylaw, rule, or regulation. The Board
shall have and exercise such power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit
and intent of Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219 in establishing and maintaining the
library and reading room.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 90.03 GROUNDS AND BUILDING.
   (A)   The Library Board may purchase or lease grounds, exercise the power of
eminent domain, and condemn real estate for the purpose of securing a site for
a library building. The procedure to condemn property shall be exercised in the
manner set forth in Neb. RS 76-704 through 76-724.
(Neb. RS 51-210)
   (B)   The Board may erect, lease, or occupy an appropriate building for the
use of the library.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 90.04 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   The Library Board may, by resolution, direct the sale and conveyance
of any real estate owned by the Board or by the public library, which is not
used for library purposes, or of any real estate so donated or devised to the
Board or to the library upon such terms as the Board may deem best.
   (B)   Before any such sale is made the Library Board shall advertise the
sale once each week for 3 consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper published or,
if none is published, of general circulation in the city. The notice shall set
out the time, place, terms, manner of sale, legal description of such real
estate, and the right to reject any and all bids. If the bid or bids have not
been rejected, then the real estate shall be sold to the highest bidder for
cash, and the Chairperson of the Library Board, upon resolution of the Library
Board directing him or her so to do, shall convey the real estate to the
purchaser of such real estate upon his or her payment of his or her bid. If
within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a remonstrance against
the sale is signed by 30% of the registered voters of the city voting at the
last regular city election and is filed with the City Council, the property
shall not then, nor within 1 year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing
the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the
signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be
considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
(Neb. RS 51-216)
§ 90.05 MORTGAGES; RELEASE OR RENEWAL.
   The president of the Library Board shall have the power to release, upon
full payment, any mortgage constituting a credit to the library fund and
standing in the name of the Library Board. The signature of the president on
any such release shall be authenticated by the secretary of the Board. The
president and secretary in like manner, upon resolution duly passed and adopted
by the Board, may renew any such mortgage.
(Neb. RS 51-206)
§ 90.06 COST OF USE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the library and
reading room shall be free of charge for the use of the inhabitants of the
city, subject always to such reasonable regulations as the Library Board may
adopt to render the library of the greatest use to the inhabitants. The Library
Board may exclude from the use of the library and reading rooms any person who
willfully violates or refuses to comply with rules and regulations established
for the government thereof.
(Neb. RS 51-212)
   (B)   The public library shall make its basic services available without
charge to all residents of the city. The Board may fix and impose reasonable
fees, not to exceed the library’s actual cost, for nonbasic services.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, free loan of circulating
print and nonprint materials from the local collection and general reference
and information services.
      NONBASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, use of:
      (a)   Photocopying equipment;
      (b)   Telephones, facsimile equipment, and other telecommunications
equipment;
      (c)   Media equipment;
      (d)   Personal computers; and
      (e)   Videocassette recording and playing equipment.
(Neb. RS 51-201.01)
(1992 Code, § 3-605)
§ 90.07 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No library service shall be denied to any person because of race, sex,
religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, or marital
status.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 90.08 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February in each
year, make a report to the City Council of the condition of its trust on the
last day of the prior fiscal year. The report shall show all money received and
credited or expended; the number of materials held, including books, video and
audio materials, software programs, and materials in other formats; the number
of periodical subscriptions on record, including newspapers; the number of
materials added and the number withdrawn from the collection during the year;
the number of materials circulated during the year; and other statistics,
information, and suggestions as the Library Board may deem of general interest
or as the City Council may require. The report shall be verified by affidavit
of the president and secretary of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-213)
§ 90.09 PENALTIES; RECOVERY; DISPOSITION.
   Penalties imposed or accruing by any bylaw or regulation of the Library
Board and any court costs and attorney’s fees may be recovered in a civil
action before any court having jurisdiction, such action to be instituted in
the name of the Library Board. Money, other than any court costs and attorney’s
fees, collected in such actions shall be placed in the treasury of the city to
the credit of the library fund. Attorney’s fees collected pursuant to this
section shall be placed in the treasury of the city and credited to the budget
of the City Attorney’s office.
(Neb. RS 51-214)
§ 90.10 DONATIONS.
   Any person may make donation of money, lands, or other property for the
benefit of the public library. The title to property so donated may be made to
and shall vest in the Library Board and their successors in office, and the
Board shall thereby become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
public library.
(Neb. RS 51-215)
§ 90.11 IMPROPER BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book from the public library without the consent
of the Librarian or an authorized employee of the library. Any person removing
a book from the library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be
guilty of an offense.
(1992 Code, § 3-604) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.12 SURPLUS OR DAMAGED BOOKS.
   The Library Board may authorize the sale, exchange, or disposal of any
surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete, or duplicate books in the Library.
Records shall be kept of any surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete, or
duplicate books so disposed of.
(Neb. RS 51-207) (1992 Code, § 3-602)
**** PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES ****
§ 90.25 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   If the city has already acquired or hereafter acquires land for park
purposes or recreational facilities or has already built or hereafter builds
swimming pools, recreational facilities, or dams, the Mayor and City Council
may each year make and levy a tax upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property in the city. The levy shall be collected and put into the city
treasury and shall constitute the park and recreation fund of the city. The
funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements, for laying out,
improving, and beautifying such parks, for maintaining, improving, managing,
and beautifying such swimming pools, recreational facilities, or dams, and for
the payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the performance of
such labor.
(Neb. RS 17-951)
   (B)   (1)   Whether the title to real estate for parks, public grounds,
swimming pools, or dams, either for recreational or conservational purposes,
shall be acquired by gift, devise, or purchase as provided in Neb. RS 17-948,
the jurisdiction of the City Council shall at once be extended over such real
estate; and the City Council shall have power to enact bylaws, rules or
ordinances for the protection and preservation of any real estate acquired as
herein contemplated, and to provide rules and regulations for the closing of
the park or swimming pool, in whole or in part, to the general public, and
charge admission thereto during such closing, either by the city or by any
person, persons, or corporation leasing same. They may provide suitable
penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules, or ordinances; and the
police power of the city shall be at once extended over the same.
(Neb. RS 17-949)
      (2)   The City Administrator shall not enter into a contract of any
nature that involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating
expenses, unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority
of the members of the City Council prior to the contractual agreement.
(1992 Code, § 3-701)
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
   Parks and recreational facilities generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-
952
§ 90.26 INJURY TO PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub in any city park or recreational
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table, or any other property of any city park or recreational area. No
person shall commit any waste on or litter the city parks or other public
grounds.
(1992 Code, § 3-702) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 90.27 ANIMALS; RUNNING LOOSE; SANITARY DISPOSAL OF FECES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, or person having control of any
dog or domesticated animal to run at large anywhere within a park, street,
alley, sidewalk, other public property or recreation facility owned by or
maintained by the city. Provided, this prohibition shall not apply to dogs or
domesticated animals where the same are on a leash, in the hands of some person
or owner or tied to a permanent object. If an a dog or domesticated animal
defecates within the park, street, alley, sidewalk, other public property or
recreation facility, the owner or person having control of the animal or dog
shall remove and sanitarily dispose of any feces or defecation left by said dog
or animal while in any park, street, alley, sidewalk, other public property or
any recreational facility owned and maintained by the city.
(Ord. 767, passed 10-16-2018)
**** SWIMMING POOL ****
§ 90.40 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Council shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws, rules,
and regulations for the protection of those using the swimming pool and for the
efficient management thereof. (1992 Code, § 3-901) Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERY
Section
   
91.01   Operation and funding
   
91.02   Conveyance of lots
Cross-reference:
   Cemetery Board, see §
32.006
§ 91.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Cemetery Board shall manage the City Cemetery under the direction of the
Mayor and City Council. The Board shall have the power and authority to hire
and supervise such employees as it may deem necessary and to pass such rules
and regulations for the operation of the Cemetery as may be proper for its
efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under the supervision
and control of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 12-301 through 12-403) (1992 Code, § 3-1001)
§ 91.02 CONVEYANCE OF LOTS.
   The Cemetery Board, on behalf of the city, may convey Cemetery lots by
certificate signed by the chairperson, and countersigned by the Clerk under the
city seal specifying that the person to whom the same is issued is the owner of
the lot described therein by number for the purpose of interment. This
certificate shall give a right in fee simple to the proprietor, his or her
heirs, and assigns. The certificate may then be recorded in the office of the
County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-941) (1992 Code, § 3-1002)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
Fire Prevention
   
92.01   Fire Prevention Code
   
92.02   Enforcement
   
92.03   Inspection; right of entry
   
92.04   Notice of violation; correction
   
92.05   School drills
   
92.06   Fire on pavement prohibited
   
92.07   Open air fires prohibited
   
92.08   Burning refuse prohibited
   
92.09   Open burning ban; waiver
Fires
   
92.20   Preservation of property
   
92.21   Obstruction of hydrant
Fireworks
   
92.35   Definitions
   
92.36   Permitted fireworks
   
92.37   Throwing firecrackers
   
92.38   Sale restrictions
   
92.39   Discharges; when permitted
Poisonous and Flammable Gases; Explosives
   
92.50   Blasting permits
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see §§ et seq.
**** FIRE PREVENTION ****
§ 92.01 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal of this state relating to fire prevention are incorporated by reference
into this code and made a part of this chapter as though spread at large herein
together with all subsequent amendments thereto. Three copies of the Fire
Prevention Code shall be on file with the City Clerk and shall be available for
public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902, 19-922, and 81-502) (1992 Code, § 7-201)
§ 92.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all city officials to enforce the incorporated fire
code provisions, and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(1992 Code, § 7-202)
§ 92.03 INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary, that structure for
the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the city
ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(Neb. RS 81-512) (1992 Code, § 7-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; CORRECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the city ordinances, to correct the condition that violates the ordinance or
ordinances within 5 days from the date of receipt of that notice.
(1992 Code, § 7-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 SCHOOL DRILLS.
   It shall be the duty of the officials and teachers of all the schools in the
city to cooperate with the City Fire Department in conducting fire drills in
such number and at such times as the Fire Chief shall prescribe; provided, that
at least 1 fire drill shall be held each month. All doors and exits leading to
the outside of the school shall be kept unlocked during school hours.
(1992 Code, § 7-205) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 FIRE ON PAVEMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement, or
near any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the city.
(Neb. RS 17-556) (1992 Code, § 7-206) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 OPEN AIR FIRES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to start any fire in the open air or to
let burn any fire in the open air in the city. Any fire burning in the open air
shall give rise to the inference that the person owning, occupying, or
controlling the property shall have let the fire burn in the open air. This
presumption is not non-rebuttable. If any person shall require a fire in the
course of his or her business trade as a blacksmith, mechanic, or
manufacturing, used in the conduct of that trade or business, and not as an
ancillary activity such as burning refuse, the fire in the open air shall be
allowed, provided the fire is maintained in a safe and reasonable manner. The
practice of the trade or business in maintaining that fire may be inspected by
the City Fire Chief, or his or her designee, and if determined upon inspection
that it is not controlled in a safe and reasonable manner, the fire in the open
air shall not be permitted. If the owner or operator of the trade or business
contests the determination that the fire is not controlled in a safe and
reasonable manner, notice shall be filed with the City Clerk within 30 days of
the determination, and the City Council shall review the determination within
30 days after the notice is filed with the City Clerk. The City Council, by a
majority vote (or in the event of a tie vote, the Mayor shall cast the deciding
vote), shall affirm the determination of the Fire Chief, reverse that
determination, or set its own requirements for that trade or business.
(1992 Code, § 7-207) (Am. Ord. 558, passed 1-19-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 BURNING REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn within the city any garbage,
animal matter, vegetable matter, straw, hay, leaves, or brush, or any matter
generally defined as refuse in the open air.
(1992 Code, § 7-208) (Am. Ord. 558, passed 1-19-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.09 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be an open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor rubbish
fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The Fire Chief may waive an open burning ban under division (A) of
this section for an area under the city Fire Department’s jurisdiction by
issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct
open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief to a person desiring to
conduct open burning shall be in writing, signed by the Fire Chief, and on a
form provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Fire Chief may waive the open burning ban in the city Fire
Department’s jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Chief. Anyone
intending to burn in that jurisdiction when the open burning ban has been
waived shall notify the Fire Chief of his or her intention to burn prior to
starting the burn.
   (D)   The Fire Chief may adopt standards listing the conditions acceptable
for issuing a permit to conduct open burning under division (B) of this
section.
   (E)   The Fire Department may charge a fee not to exceed $10 for each such
permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the City Council for inclusion in
the general funds allocated to the Fire Department. These funds shall not
reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee shall be
collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a permit is
issued to conduct open burning under division (B) of this section in the course
of that state’s or political subdivision’s official duties.
(Neb. RS 81-520.01) (1992 Code, § 7-209) (Am. Ord. 510, passed 11-21-1995)
Penalty, see §
10.99
**** FIRES ****
§ 92.20 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life, or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the firefighters to remove any building, structure, or
fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The Fire Chief
shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with explosives
any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
checking the progress of the same.
(1992 Code, § 7-101)
§ 92.21 OBSTRUCTION OF HYDRANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant,
or have or place any material within 15 feet of a hydrant. Any vehicle or
material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire Chief
or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk, cost, and expense of the
owner or claimant.
(Neb. RS 39-672) (1992 Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** FIREWORKS ****
§ 92.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation and which
meets the definition of common or special fireworks set forth by the U.S.
Department of Transportation in 49 C.F.R.
(Neb. RS 28-1241) (1992 Code, § 7-301)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 92.36 PERMITTED FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except sparklers,
vesuvius fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet
type color aerial shells without explosive charges for the purpose of making a
noise, color wheels, lady fingers, not exceeding 7/8 inch in length or 1/8 inch
in diameter, total explosive composition not to exceed 50 milligrams each in
weight, color wheels, and any other fireworks approved under Neb. RS 28-1247.
(Neb. RS 28-1241(7))
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any fireworks to be
used for purpose of public exhibitions or display under authorization of the
City Council or to fireworks furnished for agricultural purposes pursuant to
written authorization from the State Fire Marshal.
(1992 Code, § 7-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-556
   Prohibitions not applicable, see Neb. RS 28-1245
   Unlawful fireworks, see Neb. RS 28-1244
§ 92.37 THROWING FIRECRACKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any firecracker, or any object
which explodes upon contact with another object, from or into a motor vehicle;
onto any street, highway, or sidewalk; at or near any person; into any
building; or into or at any group of persons.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.38 SALE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale, or offer
for sale as distributor, jobber, or retailer any fireworks without first
obtaining a license from the State Fire Marshal for that calendar year.
(Neb. RS 28-1246)
   (B)   Licensees shall only sell fireworks that have been approved by the
State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 28-1247)
   (C)   Permissible fireworks may be sold at retail only between June 24 and
July 5 of each year.
(Neb. RS 28-1249)
(1992 Code, § 7-303) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.39 DISCHARGES; WHEN PERMITTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to light, ignite or discharge any fireworks after
10:00 p.m. or before 10:00 a.m. except on July 4 when fireworks may be
discharged until 12:00 midnight.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to light, ignite or discharge any fireworks
except during the allowable days of sale dates between June 24 and July 5.
(Ord. 635, passed 6-6-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES; EXPLOSIVES ****
§ 92.50 BLASTING PERMITS.
   In addition to notifying the City Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS 28-
1233(3), any person desiring to discharge explosive materials within the city
shall secure a permit from the City Council and shall discharge those explosive
materials in conformance with the conditions specified in the permit. In no
case shall any person perform blasting operations unless operating under the
direct supervision of a person in possession of a valid user’s permit issued by
the State Patrol.
(1992 Code, § 7-402) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Health regulations
   
93.02   Enforcement official
   
93.03   County Board of Health
   
93.04   Smoking in designated city property prohibited
Nuisances
   
93.15   Definition
   
93.16   Abatement procedure
   
93.17   Adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
   
93.18   Dead or diseased trees
   
93.19   Weeds; litter; stagnant water
   
93.20   Garbage and refuse
Storage and Distribution of Anhydrous Ammonia
   
93.30   Establishments prohibited
   
93.31   License issuance
   
93.32   Inspection
   
93.33   License fee; application; revocation
   
93.34   Liability
Pollution
   
93.45   Air pollution prohibited
   
93.46   Water pollution prohibited
   
93.47   Noxious substances prohibited
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Board of Health, see §
32.004
   Garbage, see
Chapter 54
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 93.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
city, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(1992 Code, § 4-101)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 93.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Police Chief or other official designated by the City Council, as the
quarantine officer, shall be the chief health officer of the city. It shall be
his or her duty to notify the City Council and the Board of Health of health
nuisances within the city and its zoning jurisdiction.
(1992 Code, § 4-102)
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 93.03 COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the city.
§ 93.04 SMOKING IN DESIGNATED CITY PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in the following
locations:
      (1)   Any indoor area that is enclosed by a floor, ceiling and walls
owned or leased by the city.
      (2)   Any vehicle owned or leased by the city.
      (3)   Within 15 feet of any entry and exit door of any building owned or
leased by the city.
      (4)   Within the fenced area of the city swimming pool.
   (B)   Indoor area includes but is not limited to the city office building,
city garage and pole storage building, library, bath house and swimming pool,
city event center, city fitness center, storage buildings, Water Department
shop, Wastewater Department building, Police Department building, Electrical
Department shop and office, power plant, landfill building, cemetery building
and recycle station.
   (C)   Smoke or smoking means the lighting of any cigarette, cigar, pipe or
other smoking material or the possession of any lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe
or other smoking material, regardless of its composition.
(Ord. 651, passed 5-6-2009) Penalty, see §
93.99
**** NUISANCES ****
§ 93.15 DEFINITION.
   (A)   General definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
      (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
      (b)   Offends decency;
      (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street,
or highway in the city;
      (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving, or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions,
places, conditions, and things are hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish, or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable yards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the city;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher's trimmings
and offal, parts of fish, or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the Health Officer of
the city, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the Health Officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a- brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw, or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin, or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger, or which are so unsightly
as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (8)   Any unsightly building, billboard, or other structure, or any old,
abandoned, or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings, billboards, or other
structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or safety,
or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the vicinity
thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked, or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens,
or any other place, building, or enclosure, in which animals or fowl of any
kind are confined or on which is stored tankage or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is
being processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the
premises on which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and
kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom to the annoyance of inhabitants of the city or are maintained and
kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health; or
      (12)   Any tree with a diameter of 3 inches or greater growing within 3
feet of any commercial building;
      (13)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(1992 Code, § 4-302) (Am. Ord. 768, passed 1-15-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any real estate within the corporate limits
or zoning jurisdiction of the city shall keep such real estate free of
nuisances. Except to the extent that conflicting procedures are otherwise
provided, the procedures in this section shall apply to abatement of nuisances.
   (B)   Upon determination by the Board of Health or designated official that
the owner or occupant of any such real estate has failed to keep the real
estate free of nuisances, notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice
of the right to a hearing before the City Council and the manner in which it
may be requested shall be given to each owner or owner's duly authorized agent
and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or by certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be
given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city or by
conspicuously posting the notice on the real estate upon which the nuisance is
to be abated and removed. The notice shall describe the condition as found by
the Board of Health or designated official and state that the condition has
been declared a nuisance and must be remedied at once.
   (C)   If within 5 days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant of the real estate does
not request a hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to abate
and remove the nuisance, the city may have such work done.
   (D)   If within 5 days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant requests in writing a
hearing with the City Council, the Council shall fix a time and place at which
a hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal
service or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear before
the Council to show cause why such condition should not be found to be a
nuisance and remedied. The notice shall be given not less than 7 nor more than
14 days before the time of the hearing. Upon the date fixed for the hearing and
pursuant to the notice, the Council shall hear all objections made by the owner
or occupant and shall hear evidence submitted by the Board of Health or
designated official. If after consideration of all the evidence, the City
Council finds that the condition is a nuisance, it shall, by resolution, order
and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the nuisance at once. If the owner
or occupant refuses or neglects to promptly comply with the order to abate and
remove the nuisance, the Council may have such work done.
   (E)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner. If
unpaid for 2 months after such work is done, the city may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the real
estate so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements
are levied and assessed; or
   (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon the
real estate and the adjoining streets and alleys.
(1992 Code, § 4-303)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Nuisances prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-1321
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563
   Zoning jurisdiction, Neb. RS 17-1001
Cross reference:
   Authority to obtain injunction against nuisance, see §
10.99
§ 93.17 ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the City Council condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the city, the
owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before
trial.
(Neb. RS 19-710) (1992 Code, § 4-305)
§ 93.18 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of
streets within the corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to
a hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within 30 days after the receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the city
may have such work done and may levy and assess all or any portion of the costs
and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefitted in the
same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied or assessed.
(Neb. RS 17-555)
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the
corporate limits of the city. The provisions in division (A)(2) shall apply to
such nuisances. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section,
the city police shall have the authority to enter upon private property to
inspect the trees thereon.
(1992 Code, § 4-306) (Ord. 507, passed 11-21-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.19 WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the city shall be drained or filled so
as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the city
shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free
of any growth of 6 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless
vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the city is prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 6 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation
on any lot or piece of ground within the city or on the adjoining streets or
alleys or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon except in
proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. If notice by personal service or certified mail is
unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city or by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot or
ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. Within 5 days after
receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground may
request a hearing with the city or village to appeal the decision to abate or
remove a nuisance by filing a written appeal with the Office of the City or
Village Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14 days after the
filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an elected or appointed officer
as designated in the ordinance. The Hearing Officer shall render a decision on
the appeal within 5 business days after the conclusion of the hearing. If the
appeal fails, the city or village may have such work done. Within 5 days after
receipt of such notice or publication or posting, whichever is applicable, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
with the city or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the city may have such work done.
      (2)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for 2 months after such work is done, the city may either:
      (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or
piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessment for improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes but is not limited to:
      (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
      (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
      (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation except when used as ground
mulch or in a compost pile;
      (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
      (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a machine
or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      WEEDS. Include, but are not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. RS 17-563) (1992 Code, § 8-106) (Am. Ord. 738, passed 8-16-2016) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 93.20 GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   The owner, duly authorized agent, or tenant of any lot or land within
the corporate limits or zoning jurisdiction of the city shall remove garbage or
refuse found upon the lot or land or upon the streets, roads, or alleys
abutting the lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance.
   (B)   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given
to each owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the tenant if any. The
notice shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After
providing the notice, the city through its proper offices shall, in addition to
other proper remedies, remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed,
from the lot or land and streets, roads, or alleys.
   (C)   If the Mayor declares that the accumulation of garbage or refuse upon
any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public health
and safety, the city shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be
removed, from the lot or land within 48 hours after notice by personal service
or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with division (B) of
this section if the garbage or refuse has not been removed.
   (D)   Whenever the city removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be
removed, from any lot or land pursuant to this section, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the City Council, assess the cost of the removal against
the lot or land.
(Neb. RS 18-1752)
**** STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION OF ANHYDROUS AMMONIA ****
§ 93.30 ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or
association to lease, use or operate, erect, construct, or cause to be
constructed any building or premises, new or hereafter erected or existing in
this city, as a place for storage or distribution of anhydrous ammonia, except
as hereinafter provided.
(1992 Code, § 4-401) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.31 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   The Mayor and Council shall be authorized to issue licenses for the
operation and maintenance of premises for the distribution or storage of
anhydrous ammonia within the city limits; the license shall run and be in force
from the date of issuance until revoked, surrendered, or rescinded.
(1992 Code, § 4-402)
§ 93.32 INSPECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the City Administrator, or his or her designated,
qualified agent, to inspect the premises at such times as he or she may be
called upon to do so by the Mayor and Council, and he or she shall submit a
report of the inspection to the Mayor and Council.
(1992 Code, § 4-403)
§ 93.33 LICENSE FEE; APPLICATION; REVOCATION.
   The city license fee for the operation of premises for the distribution and
storage of anhydrous ammonia shall be established by resolution of the City
Council, payable when the application is made. Notice of the application shall
be published in the legal newspaper of the city 1 time, after which a public
hearing shall be held upon the application for the license. In the event the
storage and distribution of anhydrous ammonia becomes a nuisance as defined in
this chapter, the City Administrator shall have the right and power to
immediately suspend all operations conducted under that license, and the
suspension shall be enforced by the Chief of Police upon notice to him or her
of the action of the City Administrator. Thereafter, at the next regular
meeting of the Council, or at a special meeting called for the purpose, a
hearing shall be had before the Council to determine whether or not the license
granted shall be revoked, at which hearing the licensee and all interested
persons shall have the right to be heard.
(1992 Code, § 4-404)
§ 93.34 LIABILITY.
   The issuance of this license by the Mayor and Council shall not limit the
liability of the licensee for damage caused by the distribution and storage of
anhydrous ammonia.
(1992 Code, § 4-405)
**** POLLUTION ****
§ 93.45 AIR POLLUTION PROHIBITED.
   Air shall be considered to be polluted when the discharge into the open air
of dust, fumes, gases, mist, odors, smoke, or any combination thereof is of
such a character and in a quantity which to any group of persons interferes
with their health, repose, or safety, or causes severe annoyance or discomfort
or is offensive and objectionable to normal persons and causes injury to real
and personal property of any kind. The standards for air pollution established
or adopted by the state shall be presumptive evidence as to when the air is
deemed to be polluted under this section. It is hereby unlawful for any person,
firm, or corporation to permit or cause the escape of the nuisances mentioned
above, and the escape of this type of dust, fumes, gases, mists, odors, and
smoke is hereby declared to be a nuisance and shall be summarily abated upon
written notice by the Board of Health to the violator. The abatement may be in
addition to the penalty for air pollution in the city.
(Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321) (1992 Code, § 4-501) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.46 WATER POLLUTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct or
impede without legal authority any river or collection of water, or to corrupt
and render unwholesome or impure any watercourse, stream, or other water. The
standards for water quality established or adopted by the state shall be
presumptive evidence as to when the water is deemed to be polluted under this
section. Such a corruption of the water in or about the city shall constitute a
nuisance and shall be summarily abated upon written notice to the violator by
the Board of Health. The abatement may be in addition to the penalty for water
pollution.
(Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321) (1992 Code, § 4-502) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.47 NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or permit the accumulation of
any foul, decaying, or rotting substance, including stagnant water, in or upon
any lot, street, public way, or private property in the city. It shall be also
unlawful to permit the overflow of any foul liquids to the extent that they may
be hazardous to the public health or a source of discomfort to persons living
or passing in the vicinity thereof. Such noxious substances constitute a
nuisance and shall be removed or otherwise made safe and inoffensive for the
residents of the city upon the written notice of the Board of Health. The
notice shall allow 5 days to remove the nuisance. At the expiration of that
date, the property owner shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor if he or
she has failed, neglected, or refused to remove the nuisance.
(Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321) (1992 Code, § 4-503) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter for which no
other specific penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
93.04 shall be fined not less than $25 for each violation.
(Ord. 651, passed 5-6-2009)
CHAPTER 94: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
City Property
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Streets, alleys, walks, malls, and other improvements
   
94.03   Maintenance and control
   
94.04   Regulation of obstructions
   
94.05   Regulation of snow, ice, and other encroachments
   
94.06   Permitted use of public street space
   
94.07   Poles, wires, and pipe lines
   
94.08   Dangerous stairways and entrances
   
94.09   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
   
94.10   Guttering and eave spouts
   
94.11   Prohibited obstructions
   
94.12   Trees in sidewalk space
   
94.13   Overhanging branches
   
94.14   Signs and canopies
   
94.15   Cutting into paving, curb, or sidewalk
   
94.16   Heavy equipment
   
94.17   Improvement district; land adjacent
   
94.18   Special improvement district; assessment procedure
   
94.19   Weeds
Sale and Acquisition of Property; Public Works
   
94.30   Sale and conveyance; real property
   
94.31   Sale and conveyance; personal property
   
94.32   Acquisition or construction of public buildings; election requirements
   
94.33   Acquisition of real property; appraisal
   
94.34   Acquisition of real property; public meeting; access for recreational
use
   
94.35   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
   
94.36   pecial assessments for public works or improvements; notice to
nonresident property owners
Sidewalks
   
94.50   Requirement to keep clean
   
94.51   Use of space beneath
   
94.52   Construction at owner's initiative
   
94.53   Construction and repair at city direction
   
94.54   Construction bids
   
94.55   Obstruction
Streets and Alleys
   
94.65   Dedication to public use
   
94.66   Grading, paving, and other improvements
   
94.67   Improvements without petition or creation of district
   
94.68   Opening, widening, improving, or vacating
   
94.69   (Reserved)
   
94.70   Crossings
   
94.71   Names and numbers
   
94.72   Driveway approaches
   
94.73   Excavation
   
94.74   Driving stakes
   
94.75   Mixing concrete
   
94.76   Harmful liquids
   
94.77   Snow, debris, and the like on street prohibited
   
94.78   Construction notice
   
94.79   Construction assessment
   
94.80   Improvement districts; objections
   
94.81   Improvement of streets on corporate limits
   
94.82   Improvement of main thoroughfares
   
94.83   Petition for improvements
   
94.84   Deferral from special assessments
**** CITY PROPERTY ****
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   CITY STREET SUPERINTENDENT. The city official with charge, direction,
and control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for
streets and another official is responsible for sidewalks, CITY STREET
SUPERINTENDENT shall mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the terms
is used.
      (1)   The City Street Superintendent shall, subject to the order of the
Mayor and Council, have general charge, direction, and control of all works on
the streets, sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the city, and shall perform
such other duties as the Council may require.
(Neb. RS 17-119)
      (2)   It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and
drains in the city function properly and that they are kept in good repair.
      (3)   He or she shall, at the request of the City Council, make a
detailed report to the Council on the condition of the streets, sidewalks,
culverts, alleys, and bridges of the city and shall direct their attention to
such improvements, repairs, and extension thereof as he or she may think
proper.
      (4)   The City Street Superintendent shall issue such permits and perform
such other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
(1992 Code § 1-217)
   (B)   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and
adjacent property lines.
(1992 Code, § 8-101) (Am. Ord. 802, passed 12-7-2021)
Statutory reference
   For incentive payments to street superintendents, see Neb. RS 39-2512
§ 94.02 STREETS, ALLEYS, WALKS, MALLS, AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City Council may grade, partially or to an established grade, change
grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel, macadamize,
remacadamize, widen, or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or re-lay
existing pavement, or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public grounds,
public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the city corporate
area and the area adjoining the city; construct or reconstruct pedestrian
walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler systems, fountains,
decorative water ponds, lighting systems, and permanent facilities; and
construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space. These projects may be
funded at public cost or by the levy of special assessments on the property
especially benefitted in proportion to such benefits, except as provided in
Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431. The City Council may by ordinance create
paving, repaving, grading, curbing, recurbing, resurfacing, graveling, or
improvement districts, to be consecutively numbered, which may include 2 or
more connecting or intersecting streets, alleys, or public ways, and may
include 2 or more of the improvements in 1 proceeding. All of the improvements
which are to be funded by a levy of special assessment on the property
especially benefitted shall be ordered as provided in Neb. RS 17-510 to 17-512,
except as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 17-509.
(Neb. RS 17-509)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on improvements, assessments, and bonds, see Neb. RS 17-513
to 17-524, 18-1751, 19-2401, and 19-2408 to 19-2415
§ 94.03 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The City Council shall have the care, supervision, and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within the city
and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567) (1992 Code, § 8-102)
§ 94.04 REGULATION OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   The city shall have the power to remove all obstructions from the
sidewalks, curbstones, gutters, and crosswalks at the expense of the person
placing them there or of the city and to require and regulate the planting and
protection of shade trees in and along the streets and the trimming and
removing of such trees.
(1992 Code, § 8-103)
   (B)   The city shall have the power to regulate the building of bulkheads,
cellar and basement ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways, awnings,
hitching posts and rails, lampposts, awning posts, all other structures
projecting upon or over and adjoining, and all other excavations through and
under the sidewalks in the city.
(1992 Code, § 8-105)
(Neb. RS 17-555)
§ 94.05 REGULATION OF SNOW, ICE, AND OTHER ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall have power to prevent and remove all encroachments,
including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon all sidewalks,
streets, avenues, alleys, and other city property.
(Neb. RS 17-557)
   (B)   In case such abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after 5
days' notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such
notice, to remove all encroachments from sidewalks, as provided in division
(A), the city through the proper officers may cause such encroachments to be
removed, and the cost of removal paid out of the street fund. The City Council
shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the encroachment against the
abutting property. The special assessment shall be known as a special sidewalk
assessment and, together with the cost of notice, shall be levied and collected
as special taxes in addition to the general revenue taxes, and shall be subject
to the same penalties and shall draw interest from the date of the assessment.
Upon payment of the assessment, the same shall be credited to the street fund.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
§ 94.06 PERMITTED USE OF PUBLIC STREET SPACE.
   Any person engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking,
or repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with the building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such person makes application to and
receives a permit to do so in writing from the Street Superintendent. No permit
shall authorize the occupancy of more than 1/3 of the roadway of the public
space adjacent to the real estate on which the building or sidewalk is to be
erected, constructed, reconstructed, wrecked, or repaired. A suitable
passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included
in the permit, which passageway shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the Street Superintendent.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.07 POLES, WIRES, AND PIPE LINES.
   (A)   Poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances
of public service companies shall be located or erected over, upon, or under
the streets, alleys, and common grounds of the city. Application for location
of such appurtenances shall be made to the City Council in writing. Approval by
the Council shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances shall at all times erect and locate
their appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be designated by
the Council.
   (B)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines, and other
appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the Council. Any such removal or relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the Council and the City Clerk shall notify
any and all companies affected. The companies shall, within 24 hours after
receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances to be removed or relocated. The
Council shall designate another location as closely as possible where the
appurtenances may be reset or placed.
   (C)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines, or other
appurtenances shall be reset, placed, or erected in such a manner that they
will not interfere with the water system; the sewerage system; any poles,
wires, conduits, mains, lines, or other appurtenances of any public utility;
any adjacent buildings; or travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines, and appurtenances
shall be confined to the alleys of the city.
(1992 Code, § 8-311)
§ 94.08 DANGEROUS STAIRWAYS AND ENTRANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any stairway,
open cellarway, open basement way, or open entrance thereto in or adjacent to
any sidewalk, pavement, or street, and any such entrance is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, except that all existing stairways, open cellarways, open
basement ways, or open entrances thereto in or adjacent to sidewalks,
pavements, or streets may be permitted to remain from and after the adoption of
this prohibition if the person owning or using the opening in the sidewalk,
pavement, or street satisfies the Street Superintendent that the opening is
properly protected by a balustrade, or coping of durable material, and
furnishes the city with a bond in the amount set by the City Council for the
benefit of any person who might suffer an injury or damage by reason of the use
of the stairway, cellarway, basement way, or entrance.
§ 94.09 EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner or occupant engaged in construction or demolition of any building
or improvement upon or near the public ways and property shall protect all
excavations or exposures of any kind by suitable barricades or guards by day
and by warning lights at night. The failure, neglect, or refusal of the owner
or occupant to erect and maintain such protections shall constitute a violation
of this section, and the city may stop all work upon the buildings and
improvements until suitable protections are erected and maintained in the
required manner.
§ 94.10 GUTTERING AND EAVE SPOUTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any dwelling house
or business building within the limits of the city where the dwelling or
building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper guttering and
eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on the sidewalks and
streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or business building
shall be constructed to drain into the alleys or shall be buried beneath the
sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be impossible to
drain the eave spouts into the alley.
(1992 Code, § 8-308)
§ 94.11 PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, or encumber, by
fences, gates, buildings, structures, or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys,
or sidewalks.
   (B)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when
the owner or occupant of the adjacent property permits or suffers to remain on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush, or
similar growth within 2 feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground
and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting property,
and interfering with the use, making, or construction of any public improvement
or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wire or pipe shall be
deemed an obstruction. Such trees and shrubs and their roots may be removed by
the city at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the trees or
shrubs are partially or wholly located if the owner fails or neglects, after
notice, to do so.
   (D)   When any obstruction described in this section is determined to exist,
the city may proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to
the sidewalk space as provided in §
94.05.
(Am. Ord. 730, passed 9-1-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.12 TREES IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   (A)   No person shall plant any tree or allow any tree to grow within the
sidewalk space without first making a written or verbal application to and
receiving a written permit from the Street Superintendent upon payment of the
fee, if any, established by the City Council.
   (B)   Any tree planted within the sidewalk space after the adoption of this
prohibition shall be deemed to be unlawfully planted and growing and may be
determined to be a nuisance. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
apply to any trees growing within the sidewalk space prior to the adoption of
this prohibition.
   (C)   When any such tree is determined to be a nuisance, the city may
proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to the sidewalk
space as provided in §
94.05.
(Am. Ord. 730, passed 9-1-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.13 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extend the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least 8 feet above the surface of the walk and at least 14 feet
above the surface of the street or to the heights otherwise specified by the
City Council.
   (B)   Whenever the branches or limbs of any tree extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to such provisions so as to interfere with the lighting of
the street from street lights or with the convenience of the public using the
street or sidewalk, the city may proceed against the owner or occupant of the
property abutting or adjacent to the street or sidewalk as provided in §
94.05.
(1992 Code, § 8-110) (Am. Ord. 730, passed 9-1-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.14 SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   (A)   No person shall erect or maintain any sign, signboard, poster, or
rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, or alley or on other public property
without having first obtained a permit therefor. Permits for signs, signboards,
posters, and canopies shall be issued by the City Clerk, subject to the
approval of the City Council, upon the payment of the fee, if any, established
by the City Council.
   (B)   All signs, signboards, posters, and canopies extending over any public
sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place must be securely fastened and
constructed so that there will be no danger of the them being dislodged by
ordinary winds or falling from other causes.
   (C)   No sign, signboard, poster, or canopy shall be erected or maintained
which extends over any public sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place in
such a location as to obstruct the view of any traffic light, sign, or signal.
   (D)   Upon a determination that a sign, signboard, poster, or canopy is in
violation of this section, the city may proceed against the owner or occupant
of the premises where such the sign, signboard, poster, or canopy is located as
provided in §
94.05.
(Am. Ord. 730, passed 9-1-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.15 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB, OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the Zoning
Administrator and/or Street Superintendent. Before any person obtains a permit,
he or she shall inform the City Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be
done and it shall be the duty of the Street Superintendent to inspect the
proposed place of entry into the paving, sidewalk, or curb.
   (B)   When cutting into any paving, curb, or sidewalk, it shall be the duty
of the party to comply with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Zoning Administrator and/or Street Superintendent. When the applicant is
ready to close the opening made, he or she shall inform the Street
Superintendent, who shall supervise and inspect the materials used and the work
done in closing the opening.
   (C)   It shall be discretionary with the Zoning Administrator to order the
Street Superintendent to do the cutting and closing of the paving, curb, or
sidewalk and charge the costs thereof to the party who obtained the permit. The
Zoning Administrator may consent to the cutting and closing of the paving,
curb, or sidewalk by the party holding the permit.
(1992 Code, § 8-401) (Am. Ord. 703, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 94.16 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or operate heavy equipment
across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing on
any unpaved street without first having protected such curb, gutter, bridge,
culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk, or crossing with heavy plank sufficient in
strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such curb, gutter,
bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing.
   (B)   Except as provided in § 71.05, it shall be unlawful to run, drive,
move, operate, or convey over or across any paved street a vehicle, machine, or
implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels that bear upon the pavement; with
wheels having cutting edges; with wheels having lugs, any protruding parts, or
bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent,
or otherwise injure or damage any pavement, gutter, or curb, except that where
heavy vehicles, structures, and machines move along paved or unpaved streets
the city police are hereby authorized and empowered to choose the route over
which the moving of such vehicles, structures, or machines will be permitted
and allowed.
(1992 Code, § 8-309)
§ 94.17 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; LAND ADJACENT.
   Supplemental to any existing law on the subject, a city may include land
adjacent to the city when creating an improvement district, such as a sewer,
paving, water, water extension, or sanitary sewer extension district. The City
Council shall have power to assess, to the extent of special benefits, the
costs of those improvements upon the properties found especially benefitted
thereby, except as provided in §
94.72.
(Neb. RS 19-2427) (1992 Code, § 8-108)
§ 94.18 SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   The City Council may, by ordinance, create a special improvement district
for the purpose of replacing, reconstructing, or repairing an existing street,
alley, water line, sewer line, or any other such improvement. Except as
provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431, the City Council shall have power
to assess, to the extent of the benefits, the costs of the improvements upon
the properties found especially benefitted thereby, whether or not the
properties were previously assessed for the same general purpose. In creating a
special improvement district, the City Council shall follow procedures
applicable to the creation and assessment of the same type of improvement
district as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 18-1751) (1992 Code, § 8-109)
§ 94.19 WEEDS.
   It is hereby the duty of the Street Superintendent or his or her duly
authorized agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the corporate
limits for growing weeds during the growing season, and if rank and noxious
weeds are found growing thereon, he or she shall notify the owner or occupant
thereof to cut down the weeds as close to the ground as can be practicably done
and keep the weeds cut thereon in like manner during the growing season for
weeds; provided, that any weeds growing in access of 6 inches on any sidewalk
space shall be considered a violation of this section. In the event that the
owner of the lot or parcel of land abutting that sidewalk space within the city
is a nonresident of the city or cannot be found therein, the notice may be
given to any person having the care, custody, or control of that lot or parcel
of land. In the event that there can be found no one within the city to whom
notice can be given, it shall be the duty of the Street Superintendent or his
or her agent to post a copy of the notice on the premises and then to cut or
cause the weeds thereon to be cut as therein provided and report the cost
thereof in writing to the City Council. The cost shall then be audited and paid
by the city, and the amount thereof shall be assessed against the lot or parcel
of land as a special tax thereon and shall be collected as are other taxes of
the city or may be recovered by civil suit brought by the city against the
owner of the parcel of land. In the event the property owner is a nonresident
of the county in which the property lies, the city shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by
law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known
address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time the
required notice was first published.
(1992 Code, § 8-106) (Am. Ord. 738, passed 8-16-2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-563
SALE AND ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS
§ 94.30 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (F) and (G) of this section, the power
ofthe city to convey any real property owned by it, including land used for
park purposes and public squares, shall be exercised by resolution directing
the sale of such real property.
   (B)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of real property described in division (A) of this section and
the terms thereof shall be published once each week for 3 consecutive weeks in
a legal newspaper published in or for general circulation in the city.
   (C)   (1)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance against the sale is signed by registered voters of the city equal
in number to 30 of the registered voters of the city voting at the last regular
city election held therein and is filed with the City Council, that property
shall not then, nor within 1 year thereafter, be sold. Ifthe date for filing
the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the
signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be
considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the City Council, with the
aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the remonstrance. The
City Council shall deliver the remonstrance to the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk by hand carrier, by use oflaw enforcement officials, or by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the remonstrance, the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall issue to the City Council a written receipt that the
remonstrance is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each
person signing the remonstrance with the voter registration records to
determine if each signer was a registered voter on or before the date on which
the remonstrance was filed with the City Council. The Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall also compare the signer's printed name, street and number or
voting precinct, and city or post office address with the voter registration
records to determine whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature
and address shall be presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk determines that the printed name, street and number or voting
precinct, and city or post office address match the registration records and
that the registration was received on or before the date on which the
remonstrance was filed with the City Council. The determinations of the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence
which the City Council finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison
of names and addresses with the voter registration records, in addition to
helping to determine the validity of the remonstrance, the sufficiency of the
remonstrance, and the qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud,
deception, and misrepresentation in the remonstrance process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the non-registration of
the signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the
reason for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more
than once to the remonstrance and that only 1 person is registered by that
name, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a
certification under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and
shall count only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the City
Council the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a valid
remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the City Council within 40 days after
the receipt ofthe remonstrance from the City Council. The delivery shall be by
hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail, return
receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on 1 signature page shall be
counted.
      (6)   The City Council shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The City Council shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (D)   Real property now owned or hereafter owned by the city may be conveyed
without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if acquired for
state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with the
conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18 1006.
   (E)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the real property shall then be sold. The sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (F)   Notwithstanding the procedures in divisions (A) through (E) of this
section, real property owned by the city may be conveyed when such real
property:
      (1)   Is sold in compliance with the requirements of federal or state
grants or programs;
      (2)   Is conveyed to another public agency;
      (3)   Consists of streets and alleys; or
      (4)   Is used in the operation of public utilities.
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (E) of this section shall not apply to the sale
of real property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real
property, the total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following
passage of the resolution directing the sale of the real property, notice of
the sale shall be posted in 3 prominent places within the city for a period of
not less than 7 days prior to the sale of the real property. The notice shall
give a general description of the real property offered for sale and state the
terms and conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an
ordinance may be required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01)
(1992 Code, § 1-804) (Am. Ord. 494, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 775, passed 10-28-
2019)
§ 94.31 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The power of the city to convey any personal property owned by it
shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms of
the sale. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in 3 prominent places within the
city for a period of not less than 7 days prior to the sale of the property. If
the fair market value of the property is greater than $5,000, notice of the
sale shall also be published once in a legal newspaper published in or of
general circulation in the city at least 7 days prior to the sale of the
property. The notice shall give a general description of the property offered
for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
   (B)   Personal property may be conveyed notwithstanding the procedure in
division (A) of this section when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs; or
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency.
(Neb. RS 17-503.02) (1992 Code, § 8-104) (Am. Ord. 494, passed - - )
§ 94.32 ACQUISITION OR CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS; ELECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect, and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, city building, or community house
for housing city enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and other
public buildings, including the construction of buildings authorized to be
constructed by Neb. RS Chapter 72, article 14, and including construction of
buildings to be leased in whole or in part by the city to any other political
or governmental subdivision of the state authorized by law to lease such
buildings, and maintain, manage, and operate the same for the benefit of the
inhabitants of the city.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, before any such
purchase can be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to
the electors of the city at a general city election or at an election duly
called for that purpose, or as set forth in division (D) of this section, and
be adopted by a majority of the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. RS 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the city and no election shall be
required to approve the purchase or construction unless within 30 days after
the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the purchase or
construction is signed by registered voters of the city equal in number to 15%
of the registered voters of the city voting at the last regular city election
held therein and is filed with the City Council. If the date for filing the
remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures
shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered
timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day. If a
remonstrance with the necessary number of qualified signatures is timely filed,
the question shall be submitted to the voters of the city at a general city
election or a special election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or
construction is not approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within
1 year following the election, be purchased or constructed; or
      (2)   The City Council may proceed without providing the notice and right
of remonstrance required in division (C)(1) of this section if the property can
be purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there
is a willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase
shall be approved by the City Council after notice and public hearing as
provided in §
94.34.
(Neb. RS 17-953.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council adopting the proposition to make such
purchase or erect such building or buildings for the purposes set forth in
division (A) of this section shall have the power to borrow money and pledge
the property and credit of the city upon its negotiable bonds. No such bonds
shall be issued until after the same have been authorized by a majority vote of
the electors voting on the proposition of their issuance, at a general city
election or at a special election called for the submission of such
proposition. The question of such purchase or erection of such a building or
buildings, as set forth in division (A) of this section, and the question of
the issuance of the negotiable bonds referred to in this division may be
submitted as 1 question at a general city or special election if so ordered by
resolution or ordinance.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the election shall be given by
publication in some legal newspaper printed in or of general circulation in the
city 3 successive weeks immediately prior thereto.
      (3)   No such election for the issuance of such bonds shall be called
until a petition therefor signed by at least 10% of the legal voters of the
city has been presented to the City Council. The number of voters voting at the
last regular city election prior to the presenting of the petition shall be
deemed the number of votes in the city for the purpose of determining the
sufficiency of the petition.
      (4)   The question of bond issues for such purpose in the city when
defeated shall not be resubmitted for 6 months from and after the date of such
election.
      (5)   When the building to be constructed is to be used by the state or
its agency or agencies under a lease authorized by Neb. RS Chapter 72, article
14, or the building is to be leased by any other political or governmental
subdivision of the state, when the combined area of the building to be leased
by the state or its agency or agencies and the political or governmental
subdivision of the state is more than 50% of the area of the building, and when
such sum does not exceed $2,000,000, then no such vote of the electors will be
required.
(Neb. RS 17-954)
(1992 Code, § 8-107)
§ 94.33 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the city shall not purchase,
lease-purchase, or acquire for consideration real property having an estimated
value of $100,000 or more unless an appraisal of such property has been
performed by a certified real property appraiser.
(Neb. RS 13-403) (1992 Code, § 8-112) (Ord. 512, passed 11-21-1995)
§ 94.34 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; PUBLIC MEETING; ACCESS FOR RECREATIONAL
USE.
   (A)   The city shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the City Council has authorized the acquisition by
action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
   (B)   The city shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners. The right of
access granted to the public for recreational use shall meet or exceed such
right held by a private landowner adjacent to the real property.
(Neb. RS 18-1755) (1992 Code, § 8-111) (Ord. 511, passed 11-21-1995)
§ 94.35 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and Neb. RS 81-3449
and 81-3453, the city shall not engage in the construction of any public works
involving architecture or engineering unless the plans, specifications, and
estimates have been prepared and the construction has been observed by an
architect, a professional engineer, or a person under the direct supervision of
an architect, professional engineer, or those under the direct supervision of
an architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not apply to any public work in which the
contemplated expenditure for the complete project does not exceed $100,000 or
the adjusted dollar amount set by the Board of Engineers and Architects.
(Neb. RS 81-3445)
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) of this section regulating the practice
of architecture do not apply to the following activities or the other
activities specified in Neb. RS 81-3449:
      (1)   Any alteration, renovation, or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation, or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (2)   A public service provider who employs a design professional
performing professional services for itself;
      (3)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (4)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed any land owned by the city that is not subject
to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources; and
      (5)   The work of employees and agents of the city performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs, and land-use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation, and maintenance.
(Neb. RS 81-3449)
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) of this section regulating the practice
of engineering do not apply to the following activities, the activities
specified in division (B) of this section, or the other activities specified in
Neb. RS 81-3453:
      (1)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers, or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant; and
      (2)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells, and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation, or
decommissioning is required by the city to be designed or supervised by an
engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the city as a part of a
public water supply;
(Neb. RS 81-3453)
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the city is considered a public
service provider if it appoints a City Engineer or employs a full-time person
licensed under the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act who is in
responsible charge of architectural or engineering work.
(Neb. RS 81-3423)
§ 94.36 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FOR PUBLIC WORKS OR IMPROVEMENTS; NOTICE TO
NONRESIDENT PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Before any political subdivision or special taxing district for public
works or public improvements shall be formed, and before the city or any
political subdivision or special taxing district may impose any special
assessment for public works or public improvements, a copy of any notice
required to be published by law shall be mailed to the last-known address of
all nonresident property owners as shown on the current tax rolls at the time
such notice is first published.
(Neb. RS 13-310)
   (B)   The City Clerk or any other person upon whom the duty is imposed by
law to publish notice required by law in regard to the formation of a special
taxing district for public works or public improvements shall mail by certified
mail with return receipt requested a copy of the published notice in regard to
the formation of any special taxing district within the city to the last-known
address as shown on the current tax rolls of each nonresident property owner.
(Neb. RS 13-311)
   (C)   The City Clerk or any other person upon whom the duty is imposed by
law to publish notice required by law in regard to any special assessment by a
special taxing district shall mail by certified mail with return receipt
requested a copy of such notice to be published to the last-known address as
shown on the current tax rolls of each nonresident property owner.
(Neb. RS 13-312)
   (D)   The failure of the City Clerk any other person upon whom the duty is
imposed by law to mail a copy of a published notice as provided in this section
shall invalidate the assessment against the property involved while permitting
all other assessments and procedures to be lawful.
(Neb. RS 13-313)
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NONRESIDENT PROPERTY OWNER. Any person or corporation whose residence and
mailing address as shown on the current tax rolls is outside the boundaries of
the county and who is a record owner of property within the boundaries of the
city, special assessment district, or taxing district involved.
(Neb. RS 13-314)
**** SIDEWALKS ****
§ 94.50 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice,
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. Unless the City
Council has provided otherwise, all sidewalks within the business district
shall be cleaned within 5 hours after the cessation of a storm, unless the
storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the night, in which case
the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the following day, and sidewalks
within the residential areas of the city shall be cleaned within 24 hours after
the cessation of the storm.
(1992 Code, § 8-201) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.51 USE OF SPACE BENEATH.
   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the sidewalk
lying between lot line and curb line unless a permit has been obtained from the
City Council. Before any permit is granted, the applicant shall submit plans
and specifications of any present or proposed construction to the City
Engineer. If the plans or specifications are disapproved by the Engineer, no
permit shall be granted. All permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon
the condition that the party receiving them builds, maintains, and keeps in
repair a sidewalk over the space used or constructed to be used and pays all
damages that may be sustained by any person by reason of such use or by reason
of the sidewalk being defective or in a dangerous condition. As a condition
precedent to the issuance or continuance of any permit for the use of any space
underneath the city sidewalks as contemplated in this section, the City Council
may require the applicant to furnish a bond to the city as obligee for the
benefit of any person who may suffer an injury or damage by reason of such use.
The bond shall be in such sum as the City Council, in its discretion, may
designate.
(1992 Code, § 8-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.52 CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER'S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the City Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Street Superintendent shall issue the desired permit unless
good cause appears why the permit should be denied, except that if it is
desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed
location, grade, or elevation, the Street Superintendent shall submit the
application to the City Council for determination as to whether the permit
should be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
or cause to be constructed, such sidewalk at any other location, grade, or
elevation than so designated by the city. All sidewalks shall be built and
constructed on the established grade or elevation, and if there is no
established grade, then on the grade or elevation indicated by the Street
Superintendent.
(1992 Code, § 8-206)
§ 94.53 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR AT CITY DIRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Mayor and
City Council deem necessary and assess the expense thereof on the property in
front of which such construction or repairs are made, after having given
notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises 10 days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 to 17-521 and may be exercised without creating an
improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner's
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Mayor and City Council, after having received due notice to do so, the Mayor
and City Council may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may
assess the cost thereof against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the City Council.
   (C)   (1)   Before the city imposes any special assessments for sidewalk
construction or repair, a copy of the notice that is required to be published
shall be mailed to the last-known address of all nonresident property owners as
shown on the current tax rolls at the time such notice is first published.
(Neb. RS 13-310)
      (2)   The City Clerk shall mail the notice by certified mail with return
receipt requested.
(Neb. RS 13-312)
      (3)   For purposes of this division (C), the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NONRESIDENT PROPERTY OWNER.  Any person or corporation whose residence and
mailing address as shown on the current tax rolls is outside the boundaries of
the county in which the property  subject to assessment is located and who is a
record owner of the property.
(Neb. RS 13-314)
   (D)   Assessments made under this section shall be made and assessed in the
manner provided in Neb. RS 17-524.
(Neb. RS 17-524) (1992 Code, §§ 8-204, 8-205 and 8-207)
Statutory reference:
    Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. RS 19-2417 through
19-2419
§ 94.54 CONSTRUCTION BIDS.
   Whenever the city shall construct, widen, replace, or reconstruct any
sidewalk, notice prepared by the City Attorney, specifying the work to be done
and calling for bids for doing the work and supplying the necessary materials
and labor, shall be published in at least 1 issue of a legal newspaper of
general circulation in the city; provided, bids so invited shall be filed in
the office of the City Clerk within 10 days after the date of publication. Bids
shall be opened at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council, and
the City Council shall then award the work to the lowest responsible bidder.
Upon approval of the work, the City Council may require the contractor to
accept payment in certificates issued to him or her by the City Clerk entitling
him or her to all assessments or special taxes against the real estate whenever
those assessments or special taxes shall be collected, together with the
interest or penalty collected thereon. Each certificate shall give the legal
description of the lot, lots, or parcel of ground against which the assessments
or special taxes are assessed. The certificate or certificates may be assigned
and transferred, entitling the holder to the same rights as if held by the
original contractor. The County Treasurer shall pay over to the contractor or
other holder of the certificate or certificates all assessments or special
taxes against the real estate, together with the interest and penalty thereon,
at any time upon presentation of the certificate or certificates after the
assessments or special taxes against the real estate, together with interest or
penalty thereon, shall have been collected.
(1992 Code, § 8-208)
§ 94.55 OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   OBSTRUCTION OF A SIDEWALK. The placing of any material or objects on the
sidewalk or sidewalk area which prohibits or inhibits the passage of
pedestrians.
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   It is found and declared that an obstruction on the sidewalks in
the city creates an inconvenience and endangerment to pedestrian traffic within
the city, causing pedestrians to walk in the street, enhances the probability
of tripping and falling and causes other dangers to pedestrians within the
city.
      (2)   It is the purpose of this section to regulate the obstruction of
sidewalks within the city.
   (C)   No obstruction shall be placed or allowed to remain on any sidewalk
within the city, except as set forth in divisions (D) and (E). The
responsibility to maintain an obstruction free sidewalk shall be with the
abutting property owner.
   (D)   Central Business District exception. Obstructions may be placed on
sidewalks in the Central Business Zoning District of the city provided a clear,
unobstructed passageway of not less than 5 feet in width at all points,
parallel to the line of the street, abutting the edge of the street, and
generally in the line of pedestrian traffic shall be maintained at all times.
   (E)   Special circumstances. If the City Council shall find that
circumstances exist involving site characteristics or the flow of pedestrian
traffic at locations within the city that reasonably require it, the City
Council may require a passageway of greater than 5 feet, or, if the City
Council finds that circumstances exist that reasonably require the allowance of
a obstruction on sidewalks outside of the Central Business District, such
obstruction may be allowed for specific periods or for indefinite periods of
time.
(Ord. 654, passed 10-7-2009) Penalty, see §
94.99
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 94.65 DEDICATION TO PUBLIC USE.
   No street or alley which shall hereafter be dedicated to public use, by the
proprietor of ground in the city, shall be deemed a public street or alley, or
be under the use or control of the City Council, unless the dedication shall be
accepted and confirmed by an ordinance especially passed for such purpose.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 94.66 GRADING, PAVING, AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The city has the power to provide for the grading and repair of any street,
avenue, or alley and the construction of bridges, culverts, and sewers. No
street, avenue, or alley shall be graded unless the grading is ordered to be
done by the affirmative vote of 2/3 of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-508)
Statutory reference:
   Acquisition of additional land or easement, see Neb. RS 18-1705
   Boundary street with county or another municipality, see Neb. RS 18-2005
   Limited street improvement districts, see Neb. RS 19-2416
§ 94.67 IMPROVEMENTS WITHOUT PETITION OR CREATION OF DISTRICT.
   (A)   The city may, without petition or creating a street improvement
district, grade, curb, gutter, and pave:
      (1)   Any portion of a street otherwise paved so as to make 1 continuous
paved street, but the portion to be so improved shall not exceed 2 blocks,
including intersections, or 1,325 feet, whichever is the lesser;
      (2)   Any unpaved street or alley which intersects a paved street for a
distance of not to exceed 1 block on either side of that paved street; and
      (3)   Any side street or alley within its corporate limits connecting
with a major traffic street for a distance not to exceed 1 block from that
major traffic street.
   (B)   Those improvements may be performed upon any portion of a street or
alley or any unpaved street or alley not previously improved to meet or exceed
the minimum standards for pavement set by the city for its paved streets.
   (C)   In order to defray the costs and expenses of these improvements, the
Mayor and City Council may levy and collect special taxes and assessments or
issue paving bonds as provided in Neb. RS 18-2003.
(Neb. RS 18-2001 through 18-2004)
§ 94.68 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING, OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall have power to open, widen, or otherwise improve
or vacate any street, avenue, alley, or lane within the limits of the city and
also to create, open, and improve any new street, avenue, alley, or lane. All
damages sustained by the citizens of the city, or by the owners of the property
therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated, the same
shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate, ½ on each side thereof,
and become a part of that property, unless the city reserves title in the
ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by the city, such
property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged, or leased upon such terms and
conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the city.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated only
on 1 side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the owner
of the abutting property and become a part of that property, unless the city
reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street or alley. If
title is retained by the city, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged,
or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best
interests of the city.
      (4)   When the city vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley, or lane, the city shall, within 30 days after the effective date of the
vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register of
Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the city the right to maintain, operate,
repair, and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property
is vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the city, any public utilities, and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew, and operate
water mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines,
sound and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and equipment
and appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on, or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The city shall have power to create, open, widen, or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area, or other public way, or annul,
vacate, or discontinue the same.
(Neb. RS 17-559)
(1992 Code, § 8-303)
§ 94.69 (RESERVED).
§ 94.70 CROSSINGS.
   The City Council may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Street Superintendent, those street, avenue, and alley
crossings as the City Council deems necessary. When a petition for the
construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in the
office of the City Clerk, the City Clerk shall refer the application to the
Street Superintendent, who shall investigate and make a recommendation to the
City Council. Action by the City Council on the application, whether the
application is approved or rejected, shall be considered final.
(1992 Code, § 8-302)
§ 94.71 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The City Council may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or provide
a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business purposes
and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the City Council
may require. It shall be the duty of the Street Superintendent, upon the
erection of any new building, to assign the proper numbers to the building and
give notice to the owner and occupant of the same.
(1992 Code, § 8-301) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.72 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Street Superintendent may require the owner of property served by
a driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken, or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure, including pavement or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of the owner or
the agent of the owner, directing the repair or replacement of the driveway
approach. If within 30 days of mailing the notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause the repairs or replacements to be made, the Street
Superintendent may cause the work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by the approach.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) (1992 Code, § 8-318) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.73 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Street Superintendent authorizing those excavations.
(1992 Code, § 8-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.74 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Street Superintendent.
(1992 Code, § 8-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.75 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(1992 Code, § 8-306) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.76 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
(1992 Code, § 8-307) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.77 SNOW, DEBRIS, AND THE LIKE ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to place, push, or deposit snow, sleet, ice, or mud, or
any debris, including leaves, grass, and branches, from private property onto
the streets of the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557 
§ 94.78 CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   The Street Superintendent shall notify the owners in fee simple of real
estate abutting a street, alley, or a part thereof which is to be put under
contract for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas,
electric service, and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all
consumers of gas, water, and sewer services which will be discontinued during
the construction. The notice shall be published 1 time in a legal newspaper at
least 20 days prior to the beginning of construction by the party undertaking
the construction, and the notice shall state at what date connections must be
made and excavation completed. All gas, water, sewer, and underground
connections must be made prior to the paving or repaving of the street under
construction. After expiration of that time, permits for excavation will not be
issued, nor will excavation be allowed, until after the completion of the
pavement in that street or alley, and the formal final acceptance thereof by
the proper officials of the city.
(1992 Code, § 8-310)
§ 94.79 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the City Council shall have power and authority to levy and
collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon, or especially benefitting from the street, avenue,
alley, or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed, or otherwise improved or repaired. The City Council sitting as the
Board of Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with the
procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the City
Council at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into account the
benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of the improvements and
the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in the minutes.
Notice of the time of holding the meeting and the purpose for which it is to be
held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or of general
circulation, in the city at least 4 weeks before the same shall be held. In
lieu of the aforementioned notice, personal service may be had upon the persons
owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such assessments shall be
known as “special assessments for improvements,” and with the cost of notice
shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition to the taxes for
general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and collected in like
manner as other city taxes, and shall be certified to the County Clerk by the
City Clerk forthwith after the date of levy, for collection by the Treasurer of
the county unless otherwise specified. After it shall become delinquent, the
assessment shall draw interest at the legal interest rate per annum. In the
event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the property
lies, the city shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the
nonresident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed
on the current tax rolls at the time the required notice was first published.
(Neb. RS 17-511, 17-524, 19-2428 through 19-2431, and 45-104.01) (1992 Code, §
8-312)
§ 94.80 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; OBJECTIONS.
   Whenever the City Council shall deem it necessary to make any improvements
allowed by statute, the City Council shall by ordinance create a paving,
graveling, or other improvement district or districts, and after the passage,
approval, and publication or posting of that ordinance, shall publish notice of
the creation of any such district or districts for 6 days in a legal newspaper
of the city, if a daily newspaper, or for 2 consecutive weeks if the same be a
weekly newspaper. If the owners of the record title representing more than 50%
of the front footage of the property directly abutting on the street, streets,
alley, or alleys to be improved shall file with the City Clerk, within 20 days
after the first publication of that notice, written objections to the creation
of the district or districts, the improvements shall not be made as provided in
the ordinance, but the ordinance shall be repealed. If objections are not filed
against the district in the time and manner stated above, the City Council
shall forthwith cause the work to be done or the improvement to be made, and
shall contract therefor, and shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of
land abutting on or adjacent to the street, streets, alley, or alleys
especially benefitted thereby in the district in proportion to the benefits, to
pay the cost of the improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-511) (1992 Code, § 8-313)
§ 94.81 IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS ON CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The Mayor and Council shall have the power to improve any street or part
thereof which divides the city corporate area and the area adjoining the city.
When creating an improvement district including land adjacent to the city, the
Council shall have power to assess, to the extent of special benefits, the
costs of the improvements upon the properties found especially benefitted
thereby.
(Neb. RS 17-509) (1992 Code, § 8-314)
§ 94.82 IMPROVEMENT OF MAIN THOROUGHFARES.
   The Mayor and City Council shall have the power by a 3/4 vote of the City
Council to create by ordinance a paving, graveling, or other improvement
district and to order that work done upon any federal or state highway in the
city or upon a street or route designated by the Mayor and City Council as a
main thoroughfare that connects, on both ends, to either a federal or state
highway or a county road. The City Council shall contract therefor and shall
have the power to assess, to the extent of special benefits, the costs of the
improvements upon the properties found especially benefitted thereby.
(Neb. RS 17-512) (1992 Code, § 8-315)
§ 94.83 PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing more
than 60% of the front footage of the property directly abutting upon the
street, streets, alley, alleys, public way, or the public grounds proposed to
be improved shall be presented and filed with the City Clerk, petitioning
therefor, the City Council shall by ordinance create a paving, graveling, or
other improvement district or districts, and shall cause the work to be done or
the improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor, and shall levy
assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to the
street, streets, alley, or alleys especially benefitted thereby in the district
in proportion to the benefits, to pay the cost of the improvement. The City
Council shall have the discretion to deny the formation of the proposed
district when the area has not previously been improved with a water system,
sewer system, and grading of streets. If the City Council should deny a
requested improvement district formation, it shall state the grounds for the
denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Neb. RS 17-510) (1992 Code, § 8-316)
§ 94.84 DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council creates an improvement district as specified
in §
94.13 which includes land adjacent to the city which is within an agricultural
use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners of record
title of that adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special assessments.
For purposes of this section, the terms agricultural use and agricultural use
zone shall have the meaning specified in Neb. RS 77-1343.
   (B)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
section shall, to secure the assessment, make application to the City Council
within 90 days after creation of an improvement district as specified in §
94.14. Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral
provided by this section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of the
application in writing prior to approval by the City Council. The City Council
shall approve the application of any owner of record title upon determination
that the property:
      (1)   Is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use; and
      (2)   The owner has met the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the City Council to
remove the deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in division (C)(3)
of this section;
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for that deferral, the owner of record title of
the property shall pay to the city an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against the property, to the extent of special benefits, had the
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of 6% from the dates at which the assessments would have been payable if
no deferral had been granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this
section, the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day
preceding the sale or transfer.
(Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431) (1992 Code, § 8-317)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter for which no
other specific penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of § 94.55 shall be liable
to prosecution and upon conviction thereof shall be liable to a fine that shall
not exceed $500. Each day of violation shall be a separate violation.
(Ord. 654, passed 10-7-2009)
CHAPTER 95: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Running at large
   
95.03   Wild animals
   
95.04   Killing, poisoning, and injuring
   
95.05   Enclosures
   
95.06   Abandonment, neglect, and mistreatment
   
95.07   Equine; bovine; prohibited acts
   
95.08   Pitting
   
95.09   Impoundment
   
95.10   Officer's compensation
   
95.11   Interference with police
   
95.12   Miniature pigs; licensing; regulations
   
95.13   Animal, dog or domesticated animal; sanitary disposition of defecation
   
95.14   Special uses; keeping of animals
Rabies
   
95.20   Definitions
   
95.21   Vaccination required; cost; exemptions
   
95.22   Seizure by authority; confinement by owner; testing
   
95.23   Domestic animal bitten by rabid animal
   
95.24   Animal pound; impoundment; release; fees
   
95.25   Proclamation of danger
   
95.26   Enforcement
Dogs
   
95.40   License and tax required; exemption; tags
   
95.41   Collar or harness required
   
95.42   Removal of collar, harness, or tags
   
95.43   Liability of owner
   
95.44   Barking and chasing dogs
   
95.45   Dangerous dogs
   
95.46   Animal Warden; interference prohibited
   
95.47   Vicious dogs
   
95.48   Number of dogs restricted; kennels
   
95.49   License application; false statements
 
   
95.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom other than an uncaptured
wild creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.  Any person authorized by law or employed or
appointed for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this chapter or any
other law or ordinance relating to the licensing, control, seizure, or
impoundment of animals.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, harbors, or has charge,
custody, or control of an animal or permits an animal to habitually remain or
be lodged or fed within his or her house, store, building, enclosure, yard,
lot, grounds, or premises. OWNER does not include any veterinarian or kennel
operator temporarily maintaining on his or her premises an animal owned by
another person for not more than 30 days.
   RUN AT LARGE.  Not being under the actual control of the owner by means of:
   (a)   A leash, cord, chain, or other suitable means of physical restraint
which is securely fastened or tethered in a manner sufficient to keep the
animal on the premises where tethered;
   (b)   A leash, cord, chain, or other suitable means of physical restraint of
6 feet or less in length physically held by the owner;
   (c)   Being confined within a cage, receptacle, enclosed vehicle, fenced
enclosure, or shelter; or
   (d)   Being within the real property limits of the owner and in the owner's
presence and under direct and effective voice or other control.
(1992 Code, § 6-101)
§ 95.02 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any animal, or any
person having the charge, custody, or control thereof, to permit a horse, mule,
cow, sheep, goat, swine, or other animal to be driven or run at large on any of
the public ways and property, or upon the property of another, or to be
tethered or staked out in such a manner so as to allow such animal to reach or
pass into any public way. Provided, this section shall not be construed to
prohibit the herding, driving, or running at large of an animal or animals on
public ways when prior approval of the City Council has been granted, and is
part of a parade, festival, community celebration, fair, or community activity.
(1992 Code, § 6-201) (Am. Ord. 674, passed 7-20-2011) Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-547
§ 95.03 WILD ANIMALS.
   No wild animals may be kept within the corporate limits except wild animals
kept for exhibition purposes by circuses and educational institutions.
(1992 Code, § 6-202) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 KILLING, POISONING, AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort to, or in any manner injure, maim, or destroy
or attempt to injure, maim, or destroy any animal or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal, except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous, or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this chapter
or other provisions of law.
Penalty, see §
95.99
(1992 Code, § 6-112)
§ 95.05 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards, or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement or animals not specifically barred within the corporate limits
shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace or
nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
Penalty, see §
95.99 
§ 95.06 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ABANDON.  To leave any animal in one’s care, whether as owner or custodian,
for any length of time without making effective provision for its food, water,
or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal's health.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not include
an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this section.
   BOVINE.  A cow, an ox, or a bison.
   CRUELLY MISTREAT.  To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any
animal.
   CRUELLY NEGLECT.  To fail to provide any animal in one's care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal's health.
   HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any county
or deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the city or any other city
or village, or any other public official authorized by the city or any other
city or village to enforce state or local animal control laws, rules,
regulations, or ordinances.
   LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds, or poultry.
(Neb. RS 28-1008) (1992 Code, § 6-205)
   (B) Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may seek a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care
for, or impound the animal.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may issue a citation to the owner as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 to 29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer's
negligence.
(Neb. RS 28-1012)
   (C) Violation.  A person who intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly
abandons, cruelly neglects, or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1009) (1992 Code, § 6-207) Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit cruelty to animals, see Neb. RS 17-138
   Serious illness or injury to animal; death of animal; felony, see Neb. RS
28-1008 and 28-1009
   Exemptions, see Neb. RS 28-1013
§ 95.07 EQUINE; BOVINE; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip or cause to fall, or lasso or
rope the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment,
sport, practice, or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping or causing to fall, or lassoing or roping
the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing, or pulling
contests.
(Neb. RS 54-911)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip, cause to fall, or drag any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping, causing to fall, or dragging of any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing, or pulling
contests.
(Neb. RS 54-912) Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   Livestock Animal Welfare Act, see Neb. RS 54-907 through 54-912
§ 95.08 PITTING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEARBAITING.  The pitting of any animal against a bear.
   COCKFIGHTING.  The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
   DOGFIGHTING.  The pitting of a dog against another dog.
   PITTING.  Bringing animals together in combat.
(Neb. RS 28-1004) (1992 Code, § 6-208)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall knowingly:
      (a)   Promote, engage in, or be employed at dogfighting, cockfighting,
bearbaiting, or pitting an animal against another;
      (b)   Receive money for the admission of another person to a place kept
for such purpose;
      (c)   Own, use, train, sell, or possess an animal for such purpose; or
      (d)   Permit any act as described in this division (B)(1) to occur on any
premises owned or controlled by him or her.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly and willingly be present at and witness
as a spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting, or the pitting of an
animal against another as prohibited in division (B)(1) of this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1005) (1992 Code, § 6-209)
   (C)   (1)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally own or possess animal
fighting paraphernalia with the intent to commit a violation of this section.
      (2)   (a)   For purposes of this section, except as provided in
subdivision (C)(2)(b) of this subsection, ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA means
equipment, products, and materials of any kind that are used, intended for use,
or designed for use in the training, preparation, conditioning, or furtherance
of the pitting of an animal against another as defined in division (A) of this
section. ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
            (i)   A breaking stick, which means a device designed for insertion
behind the molars of a dog for the purpose of breaking the dog’s grip on
another animal or object;
            (ii)   A cat mill, which means a device that rotates around a
central support with one arm designed to secure a dog and one arm designed to
secure a cat, rabbit, or other small animal beyond the grasp of the dog;
            (iii)   A treadmill, which means an exercise device consisting of
an endless belt on which the animal walks or runs without changing place;
            (iv)   A fighting pit, which means a walled area designed to
contain an animal fight;
            (v)   A springpole, which means a biting surface attached to a
stretchable device, suspended at a height sufficient to prevent a dog from
reaching the biting surface while touching the ground;
            (vi)   A heel, which means any edged or pointed instrument designed
to be attached to the leg of a fowl;
            (vii)   A boxing glove or muff, which means a fitted protective
covering for the spurs of a fowl; and
            (viii)   Any other instrument commonly used in the furtherance of
pitting an animal against another.
         (b)   ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA does not include equipment,
products, or materials of any kind used by a veterinarian licensed to practice
veterinary medicine and surgery in this state.
      (3)   Any person violating division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of a
Class I misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 28-1005.04) (1992 Code, § 6-210)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.09 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the impoundment of animals to which §
95.24 does not apply.
   (B)   Any animal found in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
be impounded. All impounded domestic animals shall be given proper care,
treatment, and maintenance.
   (C)   Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant marks
of identification, shall be posted at the pound.
   (D)   Each impounded domestic animal shall be kept and maintained at the
pound for a period of not less than 5 days after public notice has been given
unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. The owner may reclaim the animal during
the period of impoundment by payment of any general impoundment and daily board
fees set by resolution of the City Council and on file in the office of the
City Clerk, except that in addition, an unusual or other nondomesticated or
wild animal shall only be released upon condition that the owner shall
immediately remove the animal from the city or destroy it. A diseased animal
may be released upon a determination that the health and safely of the public
is no longer threatened. The owner of any released animal shall be required to
comply with any licensing and rabies vaccination requirements applicable to
such animal within 72 hours after release.
   (E)   If the animal is unclaimed at the end of required waiting period after
public notice has been given, the animal control officer may destroy and
dispose of the animal in a humane manner in accordance with applicable rules
and regulations, except that if in the judgment of the officer a suitable home
can be found for the animal, the animal shall be turned over to the person who
can provide such home and the new owner shall be required to pay all fees and
meet all applicable licensing and vaccinating requirements. The city shall
acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog or any other animal impounded in the
animal shelter for a period longer than the required waiting period after
giving notice. The owner of the animal shall remain liable for payment of the
fees established by the City Council.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish pens and pounds, see Neb. RS 17-548 and 71-4408
   Authority to impound and sell animals, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
§ 95.10 OFFICER'S COMPENSATION.
   If the City Council so provides, any official appointed or designated to
destroy and dispose of animals under the provisions of this chapter shall be
paid, in addition to his or her regular salary or other compensation, the sum
set by the Council for each animal so destroyed and disposed of.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to compensate keeper of pound, see Neb. RS 17-548
§ 95.11 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with any
police officer or animal control officer who is performing any duty enjoined
upon that person by the provisions of this chapter or to break open, or in any
manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the breaking open, of the
animal shelter, any ambulance wagon, or any other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of animals to the shelter.
(1992 Code, § 6-111)
§ 95.12 MINIATURE PIGS; LICENSING; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MINIATURE PIG. Any registered purebred miniature Vietnamese potbelly pig,
or other similar registered purebred miniature pig that does not exceed 100
pounds.
   (B)   No more than 2 miniature pigs shall be allowed per household.
   (C)   Any person, group of persons, or corporation owning, keeping, or
harboring 1 or more miniature pigs shall confine within a building or secure
enclosure the miniature pigs and shall not take a miniature pig out of the
building or secure enclosure unless that pig is under restraint, and shall not
permit a pig to be at large, off the premises or property of the owner, unless
under the control of a competent person.
   (D)   No person shall own, keep, or harbor any miniature pig within the city
limits unless the miniature pig is licensed as herein provided. Written
application for this license shall be made to the City Clerk, and shall state
the name and address of the owner and a description of the miniature pig
including age and sex of the pig. In addition, the applicant shall present to
the City Clerk a certificate of immunization against pseudo-rabies or a
certificate indicating that the miniature pig does not have pseudo-rabies
signed by a licensed veterinarian showing a brief description of the pig, the
name of the owner, and the date of the vaccination or certification that the
pig does not have pseudo-rabies. Upon furnishing the written application, the
required veterinarian’s certificate, and the payment of the license fee, a
receipt shall be given to the applicant and a metallic tag shall be issued to
the owner. This metallic tag shall be worn by the miniature pig at all times
that the miniature pig is not confined within the house of the owner of the
miniature pig.
   (E)   The yearly license fee shall be $2 for each miniature pig over the age
of 3 months. Miniature pigs 3 months or older shall be licensed as provided by
the ordinances of the city.
   (F)   All licenses shall be issued for 1 year beginning the first day of
May. Applications for licenses may be made prior to and for 30 days after the
start of the licensing year has lapsed, or after the miniature pig has attained
the age of 3 months, whichever is later, the applicant shall be assessed a
penalty of $1 which amount shall be added and collected with the regular
license fee for each miniature pig.
   (G)   Miniature pigs found running at large and unlicensed shall be taken up
by the Animal Warden and impounded and confined in a humane manner for a period
of not less than 72 hours, and may thereafter be destroyed in a humane manner,
if not claimed by their owners. The Animal Warden may transfer title to
miniature pigs held by the Animal Warden after 72 hours have expired and the
animal has not been claimed by its owner. When a miniature pig is found running
at large and its ownership is known to the Animal Warden, the pig need not be
impounded, but the Animal Warden may, at his or her discretion, cite the owner
of the miniature pig to appear in court to answer to charges of violation of
this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 6-203) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.13 ANIMAL, DOG OR DOMESTICATED ANIMAL; SANITARY DISPOSITION OF DEFECATION.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person having control of any animal,
including a dog, cat or any other domesticated animal to fail to remove or
sanitarily dispose of feces or defecation left by said animal, dog or other
domesticated animal in any street, public park, alley, sidewalk or other public
property or on any private property other than that of the owner.
(Ord. 767, passed 10-16-2018) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.14 SPECIAL USES; KEEPING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   The City Administrator may issue a special use permit for the keeping
of domestic hoofed livestock, small livestock, fowl, or other animals not
otherwise prohibited or regulated by this code of ordinances. Such special use
permits shall be issued after placing appropriate conditions upon the permit,
including the term of the permit and the conditions of confinement and care of
the animal. Criteria to be considered in the issuance of the permit shall
include but not be limited to noise, smell, proximity to adjacent property, the
kind and number of animals, the size of animals, the facilities of the
applicant, sanitation facilities and requirements, and other neighborhood
considerations. The special use permit may not be transferred to another owner
or property. For all permits under this section other than backyard chicken
hens, property owners within 300 feet of any lot line of the premises of the
applicant shall be given written notice by first-class mail, not less than ten
days prior to the date of issuance of the permit. The application fee for a
special use permit shall be $50, which is not refundable and includes the
city’s cost to mail the notices to adjacent property owners. The denial of a
permit under this section may be appealed to the City Council.
   (B)   A special use permit for keeping of animals may be revoked for failure
to comply with the requirements stated in the special use permit or for other
good cause. Revocation is administrative following investigation and fact-
finding by the City Administrator. An appeal of the revocation may be made to
the City Council, which following a public hearing for that purpose, may uphold
the revocation, or modify the order of the City Administrator, or repeal the
revocation.
   (C)   Backyard chicken hens. Backyard chicken hens may only be kept within
the corporate limits of the City of Kimball pursuant to a special use permit.
The City Administrator may develop a special use permit application form and
issue such special us permits for the keeping of backyard chicken hens. Such
special use permit may be issued without requiring a public hearing and subject
to the following criteria:
      (1)   No more than 4 chicken hens are permitted per parcel.
      (2)   Roosters are prohibited. No person may own or keep a rooster in any
district not zoned agricultural. Upon determining that a chick is actually a
rooster, the permit holder shall have 7 days to remove the rooster from the
permitted property.
      (3)   Backyard chicken hens are restricted to the rear or backyard of any
lot in a residential zoning district.
      (4)   All chicken hens shall be provided a coop that shall meet the
following requirements:
         (a)   Be predator-proof with a solid top;
         (b)   Be provided water at all times;
         (c)   Be limited to a maximum of 120 square feet (including coop and
chicken run) with at least 4 square feet of space per chicken for the chicken
coop and run;
         (d)   Be no taller than 7 feet at the highest point of the roof;
         (e)   Not be located between the front of the structure and the front
yard lot line;
         (f)   Meet the setback requirement for the zoning district in which
the property is located;
         (g)   All coops shall be regularly cleaned not less than monthly to
control dust, odor, waste and not constitute a nuisance, safety hazard, or
health problem to surrounding properties. All waste shall be removed from the
premises;
         (h)   No slaughtering allowed;
         (i)   Chicken feed must be stored in a re-sealable, air-tight, metal,
rat-proof container to discourage attracting mice, rats and other vermin.
(Ord. 832, passed 11-19-2024)
RABIES
§ 95.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAT. A cat which is a household pet.
   DEPARTMENT. The state Department of Health and Human Services.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any dog or cat.
   HYBRID ANIMAL. Any animal which is the product of the breeding of a domestic
dog with a nondomestic canine species.
   OWN. To possess, keep, harbor, or have control of, charge of, or custody of
a domestic or hybrid animal. This term does not apply to domestic or hybrid
animals owned by other persons which are temporarily maintained on the premises
of a veterinarian or kennel operator for a period of not more than 30 days.
   OWNER. Any person possessing, keeping, harboring, or having charge or
control of any domestic or hybrid animal or permitting any domestic animal to
habitually be or remain on or be lodged or fed within the person's house, yard,
or premises. This term does not apply to veterinarians or kennel operators
temporarily maintaining on their premises domestic or hybrid animals owned by
other persons for a period of not more than 30 days.
   RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY. City health and law enforcement officials who
shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter relating to the vaccination and
impoundment of domestic or hybrid animals. Such public officials shall not be
responsible for any accident or disease of a domestic or hybrid animal
resulting from the enforcement of such sections.
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. The inoculation of a domestic or hybrid animal
with a rabies vaccine as approved by the rules and regulations adopted and
promulgated by the department. The vaccination shall be performed by a
veterinarian duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the state.
(Neb. RS 71-4401)
§ 95.21 VACCINATION REQUIRED; COST; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Every domestic animal in the city shall be vaccinated against rabies
with a licensed vaccine and revaccinated at intervals specified by rules and
regulations adopted and promulgated by the department. Young domestic animals
shall be initially vaccinated at the age specified in the rules and
regulations. Unvaccinated domestic animals acquired or moved into the city
shall be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or arrival unless under the
age for initial vaccination.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, every
hybrid animal in the city shall be vaccinated against rabies and shall be
revaccinated at intervals specified by rules and regulations adopted and
promulgated by the department. A young hybrid animal shall be initially
vaccinated at the age specified in such rules and regulations. An unvaccinated
hybrid animal acquired or moved into the city shall be vaccinated within 30
after purchase or arrival unless under the age for initial vaccination.
      (2)   The rabies vaccine used to vaccinate a hybrid animal pursuant to
this section shall be sold only to licensed veterinarians.
      (3)   An owner of a hybrid animal in the city prior to the date of
development of a licensed vaccine determined scientifically to be reliable in
preventing rabies in a hybrid animal shall have one year after such date to
comply with this section.
(Neb. RS 71-4402)
   (C)   The cost of rabies vaccination shall be borne by the owner of the
domestic or hybrid animal.
(Neb. RS 71-4404)
   (D)   (1)   The provisions of this subchapter with respect to vaccination
shall not apply to any domestic or hybrid animal owned by a person temporarily
remaining within the city for less than 30 days, to any domestic or hybrid
animal brought into the city for field trial or show purposes, or to any
domestic or hybrid animal brought into the city for hunting purposes for a
period of less than 30 days. Such domestic or hybrid animals shall be kept
under strict supervision of the owner. It shall be unlawful to bring any
domestic or hybrid animal into the city which does not comply with the animal
health laws and import rules and regulations of the state which are applicable
to domestic or hybrid animals.
      (2)   Domestic or hybrid animals assigned to a research institution or a
similar facility shall be exempt from this subchapter.
(Neb. RS 71-4405) Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.22 SEIZURE BY AUTHORITY; CONFINEMENT BY OWNER; TESTING.
   (A)   (1)   Any animal which is owned by a person and has bitten any person
or caused an abrasion of the skin of any person shall be seized by the rabies
control authority for a period of not less than 10 days if:
         (a)   The animal is suspected of having rabies, regardless of the
species and whether or not the animal has been vaccinated;
         (b)   The animal is not vaccinated and is a dog, cat, or another
animal of a species determined by the department to be a rabid species; or
         (c)   The animal is of a species which has been determined by the
department to be a rabid species not amenable to rabies protection by
immunization, whether or not the animal has been vaccinated.
      (2)   If, after observation and examination by a veterinarian, at the end
of the 10-day period the animal shows no clinical signs of rabies, the animal
may be released to its owner.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whenever
any person has been bitten or has an abrasion of the skin caused by an animal
owned by another person, which animal has been vaccinated in accordance with §
95.21, or if such an injury to a person is caused by an owned dog, cat, or
other animal determined by the department to be a rabid species amenable to
rabies protection by immunization which has been vaccinated, the animal shall
be confined by the owner or other responsible person as required by the rabies
control authority for a period of at least 10 days and shall be observed and
examined by a veterinarian at the end of the 10-day period. If no clinical
signs of rabies are found by the veterinarian, the animal may be released from
confinement.
      (2)   A vaccinated animal owned by a law enforcement or governmental
military agency which bites or causes an abrasion of the skin of any person
during training or the performance of the animal's duties may be confined as
provided in division (B)(1) of this section. The agency shall maintain
ownership of and shall control and supervise the actions of the animal for a
period of 15 days following the injury. If during such period the death of the
animal occurs for any reason, a veterinarian shall within 24 hours of the death
examine the tissues of the animal for clinical signs of rabies.
   (C)   Any dog, cat, or other animal of a rabid species which has bitten a
person or caused an abrasion of the skin of a person and which is unowned or
the ownership of which cannot be determined within 72 hours of the time of the
bite or abrasion shall be immediately subject to any tests which the department
believes are necessary to determine whether the animal is afflicted with
rabies. The 72-hour period shall include holidays and weekends and shall not be
extended for any reason. The tests required by this subsection may include
tests which require the animal to be destroyed.
(Neb. RS 71-4406) (1992 Code, § 6-116) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.23 DOMESTIC ANIMAL BITTEN BY RABID ANIMAL.
   In the case of domestic or hybrid animals known to have been bitten by a
rabid animal, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   If the bitten or exposed domestic or hybrid animal has not been
vaccinated in accordance with §
95.21, the bitten or exposed domestic or hybrid animal shall be immediately
destroyed unless the owner is willing to place the domestic or hybrid animal in
strict isolation in a kennel under veterinary supervision for a period of not
less than 6 months; and
   (B)   If the bitten or exposed domestic or hybrid animal has been vaccinated
in accordance with §
95.21, the domestic or hybrid animal shall be subject to the following
procedure:
      (1)   The domestic or hybrid animal shall be immediately revaccinated and
confined for a period of not less than 30 days following vaccination;
      (2)   If the domestic or hybrid animal is not immediately revaccinated,
the domestic or hybrid animal shall be confined in strict isolation in a kennel
for a period of not less than 6 months under the supervision of a veterinarian;
or
      (3)   The domestic or hybrid animal shall be destroyed if the owner does
not comply with either division (B)(1) or (2) of this section.
(Neb. RS 71-4407) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.24 ANIMAL POUND; IMPOUNDMENT; RELEASE; FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The rabies control authority may authorize an animal pound or
pounds or may enter into a cooperative agreement with a licensed veterinarian
for the establishment and operation of a pound.
      (2)   Any dog or hybrid of the family Canidae found outside the owner's
premises whose owner does not possess a valid certificate of rabies vaccination
and valid rabies vaccination tag for the dog or hybrid of the family Canidae
shall be impounded. The rabies control authority may require the impoundment of
domestic or hybrid animals other than dogs or hybrid of the family Canidae. All
impounded domestic or hybrid animals shall be given proper care, treatment, and
maintenance. Each impounded domestic or hybrid animal shall be kept and
maintained at the pound for a period of not less than 72 hours unless reclaimed
earlier by the owner.
      (3)   Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant
marks of identification, shall be posted at the pound as public notification of
impoundment. Any unvaccinated domestic or hybrid animal may be reclaimed by its
owner during the period of impoundment by payment of prescribed pound fees and
by complying with the rabies vaccination requirement of this subchapter within
72 hours of release. Any vaccinated domestic or hybrid animal impounded because
its owner has not presented a valid certificate of rabies vaccination and a
valid rabies vaccination tag for the domestic or hybrid animal may be reclaimed
by its owner by furnishing proof of rabies vaccination and payment of all
impoundment fees prior to release.
      (4)   At the expiration of impoundment a domestic or hybrid animal may be
claimed by payment of established pound fees and by compliance with the rabies
vaccination requirement of this subchapter within 72 hours of release. If the
domestic or hybrid animal is unclaimed at the end of 5 days, the authorities
may dispose of the domestic or hybrid animal in accordance with applicable laws
or rules and regulations.
(Neb. RS 71-4408)
   (B)   Impoundment fees shall be paid by the owner. Fees for impoundment at
public facilities shall be established by the rabies control authority.
(Neb. RS 71-4411)
§ 95.25 PROCLAMATION OF DANGER.
   Whenever in its opinion the danger to the public safety from a species of
rabid animals is great or imminent, the City Council shall issue a proclamation
ordering all owners of any such species to muzzle the animal or to confine it
for a period of not less than 30 days or more than 90 days from the date of the
proclamation or until the danger is passed. The animal may be harbored by any
good and sufficient means in a house, garage, or yard on the premises on which
the owner may reside. Upon issuance of a proclamation, all owners of any such
species shall muzzle or confine the animal as provided in this section.
(1992 Code, § 6-108) Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.26 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   When the owner of any domestic or hybrid animal or other animal fails
or refuses to comply with §
95.22 or
95.23, the rabies control authority shall obtain an order for seizure of the
animal pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 29, article 8.
(Neb. RS 71-4410)
   (B)   In the city, all ordinances, codes, or rules and regulations
concerning the control of rabies or the vaccination of domestic or hybrid
animals against rabies shall be enforced by the city health and law enforcement
officials or those other officers with regulatory authority as specified by the
City Council.
(Neb. RS 71-4412)
DOGS
§ 95.40 LICENSE AND TAX REQUIRED; EXEMPTION; TAGS.
   (A)   Any owner of a dog over the age of 6 months within the city shall,
within 30 days after acquisition of the dog, acquire a license for the dog
annually be or before May 1 of each year. Licenses shall be issued by the City
Clerk upon payment of a license tax in the amount established by the City
Council, plus the fee required under Neb. RS 54-603(3). It shall be unlawful
for the owner of a dog to wrongfully and knowingly license an unspayed female
dog as a male or spayed female dog if the Council has established different
license taxes for such dogs.
   (B)   The tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10. The owner of any
dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to May 1 of
any year shall be liable for payment of the dog tax, and such tax shall be
delinquent if not paid within 10 days thereafter. The license shall not be
transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale, or other
disposition of the licensed dog.
   (C)   The owner shall state, at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned by him or her. A certificate of
rabies vaccination, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be
presented when application for a license is made, and no license or tag shall
be issued until the certificate is shown.
   (D)   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by this section,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
(Neb. RS 54-603)
   (E)   (1)   Upon the payment of the license tax, the Clerk shall issue to
the owner of the dog a license certificate and a metallic tag, which shall be
valid until April 30 following such licensing. The Clerk shall issue tags of a
suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
      (2)   The metallic tag and the rabies tag shall be properly attached to
the collar or harness of the dog. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog
to permit or allow such dog to wear any licensing identification other than the
metallic tag issued by the Clerk.
      (3)   If a license tag is lost, upon satisfactory evidence that the
original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions of this section, the
Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which
the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee established by
the City Council for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
   (F)   All license taxes, fees, and other collections shall be credited to
the general fund of the city, except as otherwise provided by Neb. RS 54-603.
(1992 Code, §§ 6-104, 6-105) (Am. Ord. 732, passed 1-5-2016) Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose license tax, require rabies certificate, and destroy
unlicensed dogs, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603, and 71-4412
§ 95.41 COLLAR OR HARNESS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of a dog to securely place upon
the neck of the dog a good and sufficient collar with a metallic plate thereon.
The plate shall be plainly inscribed with the name of the owner.
(Neb. RS 54-605)
   (B)   The owner of a dog may use a harness instead of a collar as long as
the harness meets all other requirements of division (A) of this section.
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.42 REMOVAL OF COLLAR, HARNESS, OR TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, metallic license tag, or rabies tag from any dog without the
consent of the owner of the dog.
(1992 Code, § 6-115) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.43 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner of the dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon conviction, may be
made to be liable to the person injured in an amount equal to the value of the
damage sustained.
(1992 Code, § 6-114) Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against injuries or annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
   Statutory liability for damages, see Neb. RS 54-601, 56-602, and 54-606
§ 95.44 BARKING AND CHASING DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog
which by virtue of loud, continued, or frequent noise, such as barking,
howling, or yelping, shall disturb the peace and quiet of any person or
neighborhood.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog
which: molests or attacks passerby or passing vehicles; attacks other animals;
is repeatedly at large; disturbs the peace and quiet of any person by barking,
snapping, or chasing such person; or destroys or damages private or public
property.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to any
city animal shelter.
   (D)   Violation of this section shall be deemed an offense punishable
pursuant to §
95.99(E) of this chapter, and a new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply with this section.
(1992 Code, § 6-113) (Am. Ord. 577, passed 2-22-2000; Am. Ord. 809, passed 10-
18-2022) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.45 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A) Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the city, and includes any local law enforcement agency or
other agency designated by the city to enforce the animal control laws of the
city.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.  Any individual employed, appointed, or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this section or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals and includes
any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in whole or
in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
      (a)   Any dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
         (i)   Has killed a human being;
         (ii)   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
         (iii)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
         (iii)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer,
and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      (b)   A dog shall not be defined as a  DANGEROUS DOG if the individual
was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or
has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or
assaulted the dog.
      (c)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the injury,
damage, or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520, or 28-521,
was committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, was
tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been observed
or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog, or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime.
      (d)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the dog is a
police animal as defined in Neb. RS 28-1008.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL.  A cat, a dog, or livestock. Livestock includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl, and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area, or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER.  Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political
subdivision, or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or
custody of a dog.
         (a)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
            (i)    Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment; or
            (ii)   Injures a domestic animal; or
            (iii)   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or
any public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
(Neb. RS 54-617) (1992 Code, § 6-121)
   (B)   (1)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed
or neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
      (2)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or
leash.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) of this section or for a
reasonable veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such
dog or permit such dog to be transported to another county, city, or village in
this state.
      (4)   An owner of a dangerous dog may transport such dog or permit such
dog to be transported to another county, city, or village in this state for the
purpose of permanent relocation of the owner if the owner has obtained written
permission prior to such relocation from the animal control authority of the
county, city, or village in which the owner resides and from the county, city,
or village in which the owner will reside. Each animal control authority may
grant such permission based upon a reasonable evaluation of both the owner and
the dog, including if the owner has complied with the laws of this state and of
the county, city, or village in which he or she resides with regard to
dangerous dogs after the dog was declared dangerous. An animal control
authority shall not grant permission under this section if the county, city, or
village has an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the relocation of dangerous
dogs. After the permanent relocation, the animal control authority of the
county, city, or village in which the owner resides shall monitor the owner and
such dog for a period of at least 30 days but not to exceed 90 days to ensure
the owner’s compliance with the laws of this state and of such county, city, or
village with regard to dangerous dogs. Nothing in this division shall permit
the rescindment of the declaration of dangerous dog.
(Neb. RS 54-618) (1992 Code, § 6-122)
   (C)   (1)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation shall own, keep, or harbor or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her, or it or under his, her, or its charge or control any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
      (2)   While unattended on the owner's property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at least one foot. The
pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The pen or
structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the owner. The
owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the property where the dog
is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of public access and that
inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property.
Each warning sign shall be no less than ten inches by twelve inches and shall
contain the words warning and dangerous animal in high-contrast lettering at
least three inches high on a black background.
(Neb. RS 54-619) (1992 Code, § 6-123)
   (D)   Failure to comply.
      (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The owner shall
be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control
authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control
officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal
control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section.
(Neb. RS 54-620)
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane
manner.
(Neb. RS 54-621) (1992 Code, § 6-124)
   (E)   (1)   Any owner whose dangerous dog inflicts on a human being a
serious bodily injury as defined in Neb. RS 28-109 is guilty of a Class I
misdemeanor for the first offense, whether or not the same dangerous dog is
involved.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation of division (E)(1) of this section
that the dangerous dog was, at the time of the infliction of the serious bodily
injury, in the custody of or under the direct control of a person other than
the owner or the owner’s immediate family.
(Neb. RS 54-622.01)
   (F)   Effect of prior conviction. If a dangerous dog of an owner with a
prior conviction under this section attacks or bites a human being or domestic
animal, in addition to any other penalty, the dangerous dog shall be
immediately confiscated by an animal control authority, placed in quarantine
for the proper length of time, and thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and
humane manner.
(Neb. RS 54-623)
(Am. Ord. 590, passed 2-22-2000) Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   Owner felony liability; serious bodily injury second offense, see Neb. RS
54-622.01
   Prior conviction; ownership of dangerous dog prohibited for ten years after,
see Neb. RS 54-623
§ 95.46 ANIMAL WARDEN; INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The Mayor may appoint an Animal Warden and give him or her the
authority of a police officer under the supervision of the City Council, to be
responsible for the enforcement of all dog regulations as well as other stray
animals. He or she shall operate the animal shelter and all fees collected by
him or her shall be turned over to the Treasurer. In the absence of such an
appointment the Chief of Police shall serve as Animal Warden.
(1992 Code, § 6-102)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere
with the Animal Warden while performing any duty enjoined upon him or her by
the provisions of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 28-906) (1992 Code, § 6-103)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.47 VICIOUS DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog of a
dangerous or ferocious disposition that habitually snaps or manifests a
disposition to bite, without that dog being securely held by a chain. If any
vicious or dangerous dog is allowed to run at large, the city police shall have
the authority to put the dog to death. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply.
(1992 Code, § 6-110) (Am. Ord. 579, passed 2-22-2000) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.48 NUMBER OF DOGS RESTRICTED; KENNELS.
   (A)   Number of dogs restricted. No residence within any residential area of
the city, unless licensed as a kennel, shall be allowed to have more than 4
dogs over the age of 9 months on the premises. The residence shall include the
entire tract with common ownership, regardless of the number of lots or the
area of the tract. All adults residing at any residence with a dog shall have
the joint and several responsibility for the compliance with the licensing
requirements. The person licensing the dog shall fill out the licensing form
and shall present proof that the dog has received the vaccinations required by
resolution.
   (B)   Kennels. A person or entity may operate a kennel within the city,
provided:
      (1)   An application for a conditional use permit has been approved;
      (2)   Each dog over 9 months of age is kept in a separate enclosure;
      (3)   Each dog has access to a separate area that is sheltered from the
weather;
      (4)   The kennel is kept in a clean and sanitary condition and all animal
waste is removed from the premises on at least a daily basis;
      (5)   All dogs must have the vaccinations required for licensing dogs;
      (6)   The person or entity operating a kennel obtains a kennel license
having an annual license as provided by resolution; and
      (7)   The kennel license shall authorize the licensee to keep up to 8
dogs over 9 months of age on the licensed premises. The City Council may grant
a waiver of the maximum number of dogs set forth in this division.
(Ord. 498, passed 5-16-1995; Am. Ord. 737, passed 8-16-2016) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.49 LICENSE APPLICATION; FALSE STATEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make a false statement or to falsely
represent any facts in any application for a dog license.
(1992 Code, § 6-107) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter for which no other penalty is prescribed
shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of §
95.02 shall be liable for a civil monetary penalty in the amount of $100
together with the costs of the action.
      (2)   Any person who has, within 90 days, twice violated or refused to
comply with the enforcement, as adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction,
shall be liable for a civil monetary penalty in the amount of $250 together
with the costs of the action.
(1992 Code, § 6-109) (Am. Ord. 595, passed 2-22-2000)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of §
95.45 shall be liable for a civil monetary penalty in the amount of $500
together with the costs of the action.
(1992 Code, § 6-122) (Am. Ord. 590, passed 2-22-2000)
   (D)   (1)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of §
95.47 shall be liable for a civil monetary penalty in the amount of $250
together with the costs of the action.
      (2)   Any person who has, within 365 days, twice violated or refused to
comply with the enforcement, as adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction
shall be liable for a civil monetary penalty in the amount of $500 together
with the costs of the action.
(1992 Code, § 6-110) (Am. Ord. 579, passed 2-22-2000)
   (E)   (1)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with §
95.44 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined in a sum no greater than $250 for a first offense,
together with the costs of the action.
      (2)   Any person who shall twice violate or refuse to comply with §
95.44 of this chapter within any 365-day period shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in a sum no less than $250
and no greater than $500, together with the costs of the action.
      (3)   Any person who shall three times violate or refuse to comply with §
95.44 of this chapter within any 365-day period shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in a sum no less than $500
and no greater than $1,000, together with the costs of the action.
(1992 Code, § 6-113) (Am. Ord. 577, passed 2-22-2000; Am. Ord. 809, passed 10-
18-2022)
CHAPTER 96: TREE BOARD; TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   City Tree Board
Trees
   
96.15   Tree species list
   
96.16   Distances and clearances for planting public trees
   
96.17   Public tree care
   
96.18   Public tree topping
   
96.19   Street tree clearance
   
96.20   Removal of dead public trees
   
96.21   Interference with Tree Board; right of access
   
96.22   Tree service registration
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees in public parks or other city property.
   PRIVATE TREES. All trees within city boundaries but not owned by the city.
   PUBLIC TREES. All street and park trees and other trees owned by the city.
   STREET TREES. Trees on land lying between the property lines on either side
of all streets and avenues within the city.
(1992 Code, § 2-109)
§ 96.02 CITY TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby created and established a City Tree
Board for this city, which shall consist of 3 members, citizens and residents
of this city, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City
Council.
(1992 Code, § 2-110)
   (B)   Term of office; compensation. The term of the 3 persons to be
appointed by the Mayor shall be 3 years. In the event that a vacancy shall
occur during the term of any member, a successor shall be appointed for the
remaining term. The initial Board shall consist of 1 member being appointed for
1 year, 1 member being appointed for 2 years, and 1 member being appointed for
3 years. Members of the Tree Board shall serve without compensation.
(1992 Code, § 2-111)
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities; operation. It shall be the responsibility
of the Tree Board to develop and administer an active comprehensive city tree
program. The Tree Board, when requested by the City Council, shall consider,
investigate, make finding, report, and recommend upon any special matter or
question relating to trees. The Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make
its own rules and regulations, and keep minutes of its proceedings. The minutes
shall be filed with the City Clerk. A majority of the members shall be a quorum
for the transaction of business.
(1992 Code, § 2-112)
**** TREES ****
§ 96.15 TREE SPECIES LIST.
   The city shall maintain a list of recommended trees for planting in public
areas. The purpose of this list will be to maintain diversity in the total tree
population. This list shall be available to residents of the city to aid in the
selection of trees for private and public properties. The list of recommended
trees shall be updated periodically to reflect new developments or species that
will affect the population of the community forest.
(1992 Code, § 2-113)
§ 96.16 DISTANCES AND CLEARANCES FOR PLANTING PUBLIC TREES.
   (A)   Trees may be planted in the tree lawn where there are at least 6 feet
between the edge of the sidewalk and the curb of the street. Trees shall be
planted no closer than 3 feet from a sidewalk, driveway, or street.
   (B)   No tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet from any street corner,
measured from the point of the nearest intersection of curbs or curb lines.
   (C)   No tree shall be planted closer than 10 feet from any fireplug.
   (D)   No trees other than small trees recommended per the tree species list
under §
96.15 herein may be planted under or within 10 lateral feet of any overhead
utility line, nor over or within 5 lateral feet of any underground utility
line.
   (E)   The spacing of trees will be in accordance with the 2 species size
classes recommended per the tree species list under §
96.15 herein, and no trees may be planted closer together than 20 feet for
small trees and 40 feet for large trees.
(1992 Code, § 2-114) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.17 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove
trees, plants, and shrubs within the right-of-way or bounds of all public parks
as may be necessary to ensure the public safety.
   (B)   The city may remove any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe
condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to electric power lines
or other public improvements, or is seriously affected with any fatal disease.
(1992 Code, § 2-115)
§ 96.18 PUBLIC TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or city
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than 3
inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to remove the
normal canopy and disfigure the trees. Trees severely damaged by storms or
other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where
other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this section at
the determination of the Tree Board.
(1992 Code, § 2-116) (Am. Ord. 629, passed 3-22-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.19 STREET TREE CLEARANCE.
   Clearance over streets and walkways shall be the responsibility of the
abutting property owner. A clearance of 10 feet must be maintained over
walkways, and a clearance of 15 feet must be maintained over streets and
alleys. Property owners are responsible for trees on their own property as well
as trees on the public way that abuts their property.
(1992 Code, § 2-117) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.20 REMOVAL OF DEAD PUBLIC TREES.
   The city shall have the right to cause to be removed any dead public tree.
Removal is the responsibility of the city.
(1992 Code, § 2-118)
§ 96.21 INTERFERENCE WITH TREE BOARD; RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere
with the Tree Board or any of its representatives or agents, while engaging in
and about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing
of any public trees.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere
with the access to private property by the city or its representative in the
legal performance of any section of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 2-119) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.22 TREE SERVICE REGISTRATION.
   Persons or firms engaged in the business or occupation of pruning, treating,
or removing any street tree, park tree, or other privately owned tree must be
registered at the City Office. Criteria for registration includes physical
evidence of liability insurance, worker’s compensation, and a valid EPA
certified pesticide applicator license number. No registration shall be
required by any public employee doing this work in the pursuit of their public
service endeavors.
(1992 Code, § 2-120) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 97: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
97.01   Public policy
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Discriminatory practices
   
97.04   Commission established; membership
   
97.05   Complaint procedures
   
97.06   State law
   
97.07   Time limit for complaint
§ 97.01 PUBLIC POLICY.
   It is hereby declared that discriminatory practices as defined in §
97.03 are against the public policy of the city.
(1992 Code, § 10-901)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. A bona fide resident of the city, including persons who
have accepted employment in the city, and students admitted to educational
programs in the city, who is acting in good faith in his or her attempt to
provide himself or herself or his or her family with housing in the city. When
the Fair Housing Commission finds a person has acted in bad faith, the person
cannot invoke the provisions of this chapter in any subsequent proceeding.
   DISCRIMINATE. To make distinctions in treatment.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, partnership, or corporation.
(1992 Code, § 10-902)
§ 97.03 DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES.
   (A)   It shall be a discriminatory practice:
      (1)   For any person having the right, responsibility, or authority to
sell, rent, lease, assign, or sublease any dwelling unit, commercial unit, or
real property, or any part or portion thereof or interest therein, to refuse to
sell, rent, lease, assign, or sublease any dwelling unit, commercial unit, real
property, or part or portions thereof or interest therein, to any person
because of the race, color, creed, religion, sex, or national origin of that
person;
      (2)   For any person having the right, responsibility, or authority to
sell, rent, lease, assign, or sublease any dwelling unit, commercial unit, or
real property, or any part or portion thereof or interest therein, to impose
upon any person because of the race, color, creed, religion, sex, or national
origin of that person unusual, extraordinarily onerous terms, conditions, or
privileges in the sale, rental, leasing, assignment, or subleasing of any
dwelling unit, commercial unit, or real property, or any part or portion
thereof or interest therein;
      (3)   For any person having the right, responsibility, or authority to
sell, rent, lease, assign, or sublease any dwelling unit, commercial unit, or
real property, or any part or portion thereof or interest therein, to directly
or indirectly advertise, or in any manner indicate or publicize that the
purchase, rental, lease, sublease, or assignment, listing, showing, or the
lending of funds in connection with any dwelling unit, commercial unit, real
property, or any part or portion thereof or interest therein, by persons of any
particular race, color, creed, religion, sex, or national origin is unwelcome,
objectionable, not acceptable, or not solicited;
      (4)   For any person engaged in lending money, guaranteeing loans,
accepting mortgages, or otherwise making available funds for the purchase,
acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair, or maintenance of any
dwelling unit, commercial unit, or real property, or any part or portion
thereof or interest therein, to discriminate because of race, color, creed,
religion, sex, or national origin of any person applying for loans or
guarantees or mortgages in lending money, guaranteeing loans, accepting
mortgages, or otherwise making available funds for the purchase, acquisition,
construction, rehabilitation, repair, or maintenance of any dwelling unit,
commercial unit, or real property, or any part or portion thereof or interest
therein, or to place unusual, extraordinary, onerous rates of interest, terms,
or conditions on the lending of that money, the guaranteeing of those loans,
the acceptance of those mortgages, or the availability of those funds;
      (5)   For any person to discriminate in furnishing any facilities or
services to any dwelling unit, commercial unit, real property, or part or
portion thereof, because of the race, color, creed, religion, sex, or national
origin of any person making application for those facilities or services;
      (6)   For any person in the real estate business in any capacity
whatsoever to discriminate in the selling, renting, leasing, assigning, or
subleasing of any dwelling unit, commercial unit, real property, or any part or
portion thereof or interest therein, to any person because of race, color,
creed, religion, sex, or national origin of any person, that any dwelling unit,
commercial unit, real property, or any part or portion thereof or interest
therein is not available for inspection, sale, rental, lease, assignment, or
sublease; or otherwise to deny or withhold any dwelling unit, commercial unit,
real property, or any part or portion thereof or interest therein, to any
person because of race, color, creed, religion, sex, or national origin of that
person;
      (7)   For any person to include in any sale, rental, lease, assignment,
or sublease of any dwelling unit, commercial unit, or real property, or any
part or portion thereof or interest therein, as a condition of the transaction,
that the purchaser, renter, tenant, occupant, or assignee agree not to sell,
rent, lease, assign, or sublease the dwelling unit, commercial unit, or real
property, or part or portion thereof or interest therein, to any person because
of race, color, creed, religion, sex, or national origin of that person;
      (8)   For any person to discriminate against another person in any of the
rights protected under the provisions of this chapter because that person
complies with the provisions of this chapter or has opposed any practice
forbidden under this chapter, or has filed a complaint, testified, or assisted
in any proceeding under this chapter; or
      (9)   For any person to aid, abet, incite, compel, coerce, cooperate, or
participate in the doing of any act declared to be a discriminatory practice
under the provisions of this chapter, or to obstruct or prevent compliance with
the provisions of this chapter or any proceedings of the Fair Housing
Commission pursuant to this chapter, or to attempt directly or indirectly to
commit any act declared by this chapter to be a discriminatory practice.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter and particularly this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   Any bona fide religious institution with respect to any
qualifications it may impose based upon religion, when those qualifications are
related to bona fide religious purpose;
      (2)   A rental or leasing of a housing accommodation in a building which
contained housing accommodations for not more than 2 families living
independently of each other, if the owner or members of his or her family
reside in 1 of those housing units; or
      (3)   The rental or leasing to less than 7 persons within a single
housing accommodation by the occupant or owner of the housing accommodation if
he or she or members of his or her family reside therein.
(1992 Code, § 10-903) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.04 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby established the Fair Housing Commission which shall consist
of 5 members appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City
Council. Appointments shall take into consideration the various racial,
religious, cultural, and social groups and geographical areas within the city
insofar as may be practicable. The term of appointment shall be 3 years from
the first meeting in December of the year in which the appointment is made,
except that for the purpose of maintaining an appropriate staggering of terms,
the Mayor may prescribe a shorter term for any appointment or reappointment. In
the event that a vacancy occurs in the membership of the Board by death,
resignation, or otherwise prior to the normal expiration of the appointee’s
term, the Mayor, with the approval of the City Board, shall appoint a person to
serve out the remainder of the unexpired term. Any member or all members of the
Commission may be removed from office at any time by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council. No person shall serve on the Commission for more
than 6 years.
(1992 Code, § 10-904)
§ 97.05 COMPLAINT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Purpose. In order to ensure that the rights of all parties will be
adequately protected, the following procedures have been formulated for the
filing, investigating, and hearing of complaints involving discrimination.
These procedures are designed to ensure all parties concerned an adequate and
fair opportunity to present their case.
   (B)   Complaints. In the event any person is alleged to have committed an
act of discrimination, any aggrieved person may file a sworn complaint in
writing with the secretary of the Fair Housing Commission. The complaint shall
set out the name or names of the person or persons alleged to have committed
the act of discrimination, the statement of the act, and the time and place of
the commission of the act.
   (C)   Investigation and conciliation. The Fair Housing Commission of the
city, sitting in executive session, shall consider each complaint and in each
instance where a 2/3 majority of the members of the Commission are of the
opinion that an act of discrimination under the provisions of this chapter may
have been committed, it shall appoint a committee of 1 or more members of the
Commission to call upon the person alleged to have committed the act of
discrimination (hereinafter referred to as respondent) and attempt to determine
whether or not such an act has in fact been committed, and to effect
conciliation between the parties in the event a discriminatory act has been
committed, and to obtain commitments designed to prevent the recurrence of the
matter complained of. In the event that the committee is successful in
effecting conciliation between the parties and becomes convinced that no
discriminatory act was committed, the complaint and all proceedings by the
Commission and the committee shall be and remain confidential; and any
disclosure thereof except as hereinafter authorized, by the secretary or any
member of the Commission, shall be grounds for removal from office. The
Commission may, however, publish results of its work in official reports
omitting the names of the parties and any factual items which would identify
the parties.
   (D)   Waiting period. Before a public hearing is held, under division (E)
below, a 30-day period of time shall pass in an attempt to effect a
reconciliation.
   (E)   Public hearing. In the event the respondent refuses to meet with the
committee selected by the Fair Housing Commission, or conciliation and the
obtaining of the commitments against recurrence fails, the committee shall so
report the matter to the Fair Housing Commission, at which time the Mayor may
fix a time and place for public hearing on the complaint. The Commission shall
serve upon the respondent a written statement of the charges made in the
complaint and a written notice of the time and place of the hearing. The
hearing shall be held not less than 20 days after the service of the statement
of charges. The respondent shall have the right to file an answer to the
statement of charges, to appear at the hearing in person or to be represented
by an attorney, and to examine and cross-examine witnesses. The hearing shall
not be conducted following the strict rules of evidence prevailing in courts of
law, except that the respondent shall have the right to confront any and all
witnesses against him or her and the right to refuse to testify against himself
or herself. All testimony taken at the hearing shall be under oath. If, upon
all the evidence presented, the Commission finds that the respondent has
committed an act of discrimination, the Commission shall set forth its findings
of fact and shall issue and cause to be served upon the respondent such orders
as the Commission deems just and equitable.
   (F)   Enforcement. In the event the respondent fails to comply with any
order issued by the Commission, the Commission shall certify the matter to the
City Council for appropriate action including enforcement proceedings in the
District Court.
(1992 Code, § 10-905)
§ 97.06 STATE LAW.
   Nothing in this chapter shall diminish or restrict the city, the Commission,
or any person exercising the rights provided for and the procedures set out in
Neb. RS 20-101 et seq., and the Commission or the City Council may at any stage
of the proceedings provided for herein decline to take further action and refer
the matter to the State Equal Opportunity Commission.
(1992 Code, § 10-906)
§ 97.07 TIME LIMIT FOR COMPLAINT.
   No action shall be brought under the provisions of this chapter unless the
written complaint shall have been filed within 30 days of the commission of the
alleged offense.
(1992 Code, § 10-907)
CHAPTER 98: ABANDONED AND WRECKED VEHICLES
Section
   
98.01   Title
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Storage prohibited; exceptions
   
98.04   Notice to remove
   
98.05   Responsibility for removal
   
98.06   Notice procedure
   
98.07   Notice content
   
98.08   Request for hearing
   
98.09   Hearing procedure
   
98.10   Removal by city
   
98.11   Notice of removal
   
98.12   Disposition of removed vehicles
   
98.13   Notice of public sale; content
   
98.14   Public sale; certificate
   
98.15   Redemption of impounded vehicles
   
98.16   Liability of owner or occupant
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Abandoned, Wrecked,
Dismantled, or Inoperative Motor Vehicle Chapter.”
(1992 Code, § 4-601)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle is an  ABANDONED VEHICLE:
         (a)   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In Transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than 6 hours on any public property;
         (b)   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
         (c)   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
         (d)   If left unattended for more than 7 days on private property if
left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission of the
owner is terminated;
         (e)   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of the City Police
Department after the Police Department has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner; or
         (f)   If removed from private property by the Chief of Police pursuant
to this Code.
      (2)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
         (a)   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
         (b)   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
         (c)   If left unattended for more than 7 days on private property if
left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission of the
owner is terminated;
         (d)   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of the City Police
Department after the Police Department has sent a letter to the last registered
owner; or
         (e)   If removed from private property by the Chief of Police pursuant
to this Code.
      (3)   A MOBILE HOME is an abandoned vehicle if left in place on private
property for more than 30 days after the city has sent a certified letter to
each of the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home,
stating that the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
      (4)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431 shall
be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the city.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, as defined by this section, which
does not have lawfully affixed thereto an unexpired license plate or plates,
and the condition of which is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled,
inoperative, abandoned, or discarded.
   MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on its
own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a permanent
foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units that can
be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity, or of 2 or
more units, separately towable but deigned to be joined into one integral unit,
and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-4603. Mobile
home does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which an affidavit
of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground, including, but not limited to, automobiles, buses, motor
bikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, campers, and
trailers.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the city and the zoning
jurisdiction which is privately owned which is not public property as defined
in this section.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street or highway, which shall include the entire width
between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for the purposes of
vehicular travel, and also any other publicly owned property or facility.
(1992 Code, § 4-602) (Am. Ord. 724, passed 6-2-2015)
§ 98.03 STORAGE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall park, store, leave, or permit the parking, storing, or
leaving of any motor vehicle of any kind which is in an abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked, or partially dismantled condition
whether attended or not upon any public or private property within the city or
its zoning jurisdiction for a period of time in excess of 48 hours. The
presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked, or
partially dismantled vehicle or parts thereof, on private or public property,
is hereby declared a public nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. This section shall not apply to any
vehicle enclosed within a building on private property or to any vehicle held
in connection with a business enterprise lawfully licensed by the city and
property operated in the appropriate business zone, pursuant to the zoning laws
of the city, or to any motor vehicle in operable condition specifically adopted
or designed for operation on drag strips or raceways.
(1992 Code, § 4-603) (Am. Ord. 724, passed 6-2-2015) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.04 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   Whenever it comes to the attention of the Chief of Police that any nuisance
as defined in §
98.03 of this code exists in the city, a notice in writing shall be served upon
the occupant of the land where the nuisance exists, or in case there is no such
occupant, then upon the owner of the property or his or her
agent, notifying them of the existence of the nuisance and requesting its
removal in the time specified in §
98.06.
(1992 Code, § 4-604)
§ 98.05 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL.
   Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard, the owner of the abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative vehicle and the owner or occupant of the
private property on which the same is located, or either or all of them, shall
be responsible for its removal. In the event of removal and disposition by the
city, the owner or occupant of the private property where same is located shall
be liable for the expenses incurred.
(1992 Code, § 4-605) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.06 NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   The Chief of Police of the city shall give notice of removal to the owner or
occupant of the private property where it is located, at least 10 days before
the time of compliance. It shall constitute sufficient notice when a copy of
same is posted in a conspicuous place upon the private property on which the
vehicle is located and duplicate copies are sent by registered mail to the
owner or occupant of the private property at his or her last known address.
(1992 Code, § 4-606)
§ 98.07 NOTICE CONTENT.
   The notice shall contain the request for removal within the time specified
in § 98.06, and the notice shall advise that upon failure to comply with the
notice to remove, the city or its designee shall undertake the removal with the
cost of removal to be levied against the owner or occupant of the property.
(1992 Code, § 4-607)
§ 98.08 REQUEST FOR HEARING.
   The persons to whom the notices are directed, or their duly authorized
agents, may file a written request for hearing before the City Council or the
City Clerk and/or City Administrator, if so designated by the City Council,
within the 10-day period of compliance prescribed in §
98.06 for the purpose of defending the charges by the city.
(1992 Code, § 4-608) (Am. Ord. 724, passed 6-2-2015)
§ 98.09 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   The hearing shall be held as soon as practicable after the filing of the
request, and the persons to whom the notices are directed shall be advised of
the time and place of the hearing at least 10 days in advance thereof. At any
such hearing the city and the persons to whom the notices have been directed
may introduce such witnesses and evidence as either party deems necessary.
(1992 Code, § 4-609)
§ 98.10 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   If the violation described in the notice has not been remedied within the
10-day period of compliance, or in the event that a notice requesting a hearing
is timely filed, a hearing is had, and the existence of the violation is
affirmed by the City Council or the City Clerk as its designee, the Chief of
Police or his or her designee shall have the right to take possession of the
junked motor vehicle and remove it from the premises. It shall be unlawful for
any person to interfere with, hinder, or refuse to allow such person or persons
to enter upon private property for the purpose of removing a vehicle under the
provisions of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 4-610) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.11 NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
   Within 48 hours of the removal of the vehicle, the Chief of Police shall
give notice to the registered owner of the vehicle, if known, and also to the
owner or occupant of the private property from which the vehicle was removed,
that the vehicle, or vehicles, has been impounded and stored for violation of
this chapter. The notice shall give the location of where the vehicle, or
vehicles, is stored and the costs incurred by the city for removal.
(1992 Code, § 4-611)
§ 98.12 DISPOSITION OF REMOVED VEHICLES.
   Upon removing a vehicle under the provisions of §
98.10, the city shall after 10 days cause it to be appraised. If the vehicle is
appraised at $250 or less, the Chief of Police shall execute an affidavit so
attesting and describing the vehicle, including the license plates, if any, and
stating the location and appraised value of the vehicle. The Chief of Police,
after complying with the above, may summarily dispose of the vehicle and
execute a certificate of sale. If the vehicle is appraised at over $250, the
Chief of Police shall give notice of public sale not less than 10 days before
the date of the proposed sale.
(1992 Code, § 4-612) (Am. Ord. 724, passed 6-2-2015)
§ 98.13 NOTICE OF PUBLIC SALE; CONTENT.
   The notice of sale shall state:
   (A)   The sale is of abandoned property in the possession of the city;
   (B)   A description of the vehicle, including make, model, license number,
and any other information which will accurately identify the vehicle;
   (C)   The terms of the sale; and
   (D)   The date, time, and place of the sale.
(1992 Code, § 4-613)
§ 98.14 PUBLIC SALE; CERTIFICATE.
   The vehicle shall be sold to the highest and best bidder. At the time of
payment of the purchase price, the Chief of Police shall execute a certificate
of sale in duplicate, the original of which to be given to the purchaser, and
the copy thereof to be filed with the City Clerk. Should the sale for any
reason be invalid, the city’s liability shall be limited to the return of the
purchase price.
(1992 Code, § 4-614)
§ 98.15 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   The owner of any vehicle seized under the provisions of this chapter may
redeem the vehicle at any time after its removal but prior to the sale or
destruction thereof upon proof of ownership and payment to the Chief of Police
of such sum as he or she may determine and fix for the actual and reasonable
expense of removal, and any preliminary sale advertising expenses, not to
exceed $10 plus $5 per day for storage for each vehicle redeemed.
(1992 Code, § 4-615)
§ 98.16 LIABILITY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   Upon the failure of the owner or occupant of property on which abandoned
vehicles have been removed by the city to pay the unrecovered expenses incurred
by the city in that removal, a lien shall be placed upon the property for the
amount of the expenses.
(1992 Code, § 4-616) (Ord. 321, passed 10-2-1973)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter for which no other penalty is prescribed
shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any provisions of this chapter shall be liable for a civil monetary penalty
in the amount of $100, together with the costs of the action. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply. Any
person who has twice violated or refused to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter within 180 days, as adjudged by a court of
competent jurisdiction, shall be liable for a civil monetary penalty in the
amount of $500, together with the costs of the action.
(1992 Code, § 4-617) (Ord. 594, passed 2-22-2000)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS
      
114.   LOTTERY
      
115.   RAILROAD COMPANIES
      
116.   FOOD SERVICE
      
117.   SPECIAL EVENTS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Sale of water or electricity
Building Contractors; Registration
   
110.20   Definition
   
110.21   Registration required
   
110.22   Notice
   
110.23   Compliance required
   
110.24   Revocation; procedure
   
110.25   Appeal
   
110.26   Violations
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 110.01 SALE OF WATER OR ELECTRICITY.
   (A)   Commencing November 1, 2003, there is hereby levied upon every person,
firm, partnership, corporation, municipality, or association engaged in the
business of offering or providing water or electricity to the public in the
city an occupation tax of 4% on the gross receipts resulting from the sale of
water or electricity.
   (B)   On or before the last day of each and every month, any company
providing water or electricity shall pay to the city 4% of the gross receipts
as provided in division (A) herein from the preceding month as an occupation
tax. All deferred payments shall draw interest at the rate of 1% per month.
After default for 6 months, a penalty of 5% shall be added in addition to the
interest charges.
   (C)   All companies providing electricity or water on the last day of each
month shall submit to the City Treasurer a full, complete, and detailed
statement of the income and gross receipts for the sale of water and
electricity. All businesses of this type shall at any reasonable times during
business hours permit the city, through its officers, agents, or
representatives, to inspect the books and records of any such business for the
purpose of verifying the report or reports.
   (D)   The occupation taxes levied and provided for by this section shall be
paid to the City Treasurer, who shall, upon payment thereof, give a receipt,
properly dated, and specifying the person paying the same, and the amount
thereof, and the time for which the same takes effect. The Treasurer shall keep
a record of the receipts so issued.
   (E)   It is hereby made the duty of any person, firm, partnership,
corporation, municipality, or association desiring to exercise, carry on, or
engage in any occupation within the provisions of this section to pay to the
City Treasurer the amounts specified for the occupation tax, as provided for in
this chapter. The amount of the occupation tax shall be due and payable to the
City Treasurer immediately after the person shall begin business in any
occupation within the provisions of this section.
   (F)   The City Attorney may bring suit in the name of the city against any
person, corporation, firm, partnership, municipality, or association in any
court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of the tax levied by this
section upon the failure of that person, corporation, firm, partnership,
municipality, or association to pay the same as provided.
(Ord. 613, passed 10-21-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** BUILDING CONTRACTORS; REGISTRATION ****
§ 110.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING CONTRACTOR. An individual or other legal entity engaged in the
business of contracting with an owner or with another building contractor to
provide labor for the construction, alteration, repair or improvement of
buildings or other structures, including sidewalks and streets. An employee of
a building contractor who does not directly contract with an owner or another
building contractor is not a building contractor within this definition.
(Ord. 670, passed 3-2-2011)
§ 110.21 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to engage in the business of a
building contractor within the city or its zoning jurisdiction without having
first registered with the city as follows:
   (B)   The City Administrator or the city employee designated by the City
Administrator may register building contractors to do business in the city or
its zoning jurisdiction. Before registering a contractor, the City
Administrator or his or her designee will require the building contractor to
complete an application to:
      (1)   Furnish references;
      (2)   Describe the general nature of the work the applicant proposes to
do;
      (3)   Describe the applicant’s experience;
      (4)   Identify the employees of the applicant;
      (5)   Describe any liability insurance insuring the applicant (such
insurance is not required);
      (6)   Describe whether a license to conduct business as a building
contractor has been revoked or suspended by any other jurisdiction, and if so,
to fully describe the circumstances; and
      (7)   State the applicant’s business and residence addresses, and
telephone numbers, including cell phones if any.
   (C)   Upon the applicant’s furnishing the required information on an
application and paying a fee in the amount of $25 per year for the initial
registration, and $15 per year to renew such registration, the applicant shall
be registered unless the City Administrator or the designee of the City
Administrator articulates written reasons why, for reasons associated with the
competence or integrity of the applicant, it is not in the best interest of the
city that applicant be registered. The applicant shall either be registered or
shall be sent a written explanation why the applicant will not be registered
within 14 days after the date of application.
   (D)   Such registration will be valid for 1 calendar year after the date of
issuance, after which time it will expire without further notice to the
registrant. Upon application for renewal of such registration, the applicant
will advise the City Administrator or the designee of the City Administrator in
writing if any statement in the original application is no longer accurate.
(Ord. 670, passed 3-2-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.22 NOTICE.
   In the event of a change of address, the City Administrator shall be
notified in writing of any such change. Any notice required by this chapter to
be sent to an applicant or building contractor shall be properly given if sent
by regular U.S. mail to the address shown on the application or, in the event
the City Administrator has been given written notice of a change of address, to
such changed address. Notice may also be given in any other manner reasonably
calculated to give the recipient of the notice actual knowledge of its
contents.
(Ord. 670, passed 3-2-2011)
§ 110.23 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   All building contractors shall comply with all applicable provisions of this
code and all building codes adopted by the city, and shall comply with all
lawful orders given by employees of the city. All building contractors shall be
responsible to insure that their employees comply with the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 670, passed 3-2-2011)
§ 110.24 REVOCATION; PROCEDURE.
   Any registration issued or granted to a building contractor may be revoked
by the City Administrator or the designee of the City Administrator in writing
upon a showing of good cause after notice and a hearing. Good cause for
revocation shall include but not be limited to:
   (A)   Falsification of information on the application for registration; and
   (B)    Any improper construction practice that endangers life or property.
(Ord. 670, passed 3-2-2011)
§ 110.25 APPEAL.
   If registration is denied or revoked by a designee of the City
Administrator, the applicant may appeal to the City Clerk by filing a notice of
appeal with the City Clerk within 14 days of the revocation or denial. The City
Clerk, after an appropriate hearing in which the Nebraska Rules of Evidence
shall not apply, may affirm or reverse the decision denying or revoking the
registration. The hearing shall be de novo. Evidence shall not be restricted to
the evidence presented to the City Administrator or designee, and the City
Clerk shall owe no deference to the decision of the City Administrator or
designee. If registration was denied or revoked by the City Clerk, any appeal
shall be to an appropriate court.
(Ord. 670, passed 3-2-2011)
§ 110.26 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who falsifies information on an application for a building
contractor registration, or who violates any provision of §§
110.20 through
110.25 shall be guilty of violating this code and shall be subject to the
penalty as set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 670, passed 3-2-2011)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
111.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
111.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses Required
   
111.20   Manufacture, sale, delivery, and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
111.21   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
111.22   Licensee requirements
   
111.23   Licenses; city powers and duties
   
111.24   Licensed premises; inspections
   
111.25   License renewal; city powers and duties
   
111.26   Catering licenses
   
111.27   Display of license
   
111.28   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
111.29   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent, or employee
   
111.30   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
111.45   Location
   
111.46   Access to dwellings
   
111.47   Sanitary conditions
   
111.48   Hours of sale
   
111.49   Credit sales prohibited
   
111.50   Original package required
   
111.51   Minor’s presence restricted
   
111.52   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.42 shall be used.
§ 111.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange, or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift, or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-135
§ 111.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08,
it is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned
or controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open to the
general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon
the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant
to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor in any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open
to the general public except as permitted by a license issued for such premises
pursuant to the Act. This division does not apply to a retail licensee while
lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or
buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
§ 111.04 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic, alcoholism center, or with a medical doctor as may be
necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury. The effort at placement shall
be deemed reasonable if the officer contacts such facilities or doctor which
have previously represented a willingness to accept and treat such individuals
and which regularly do accept such individuals. If these efforts are
unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer may then place the intoxicated
person in civil protective custody, except that civil protective custody shall
be used only as long as is necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury, and
under no circumstances longer than 24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park,
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** LICENSES REQUIRED ****
§ 111.20 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY, AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish, or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables, or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual, or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment; or
      (8)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.21 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept, or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act unless within specific exemptions or exceptions
provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship,
or cause to be transported, imported, brought, or shipped into this state for
the personal use of the possessor, his or her family, or guests a quantity of
alcoholic liquor in excess of 9 liters in any 1 calendar month.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.22 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, or boat licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Chapter 28, art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or
12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division on May 18,
1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless 1 of the partners is a resident of this state
and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless 1 of the members is a resident
of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) of this
section, or if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive
a license under this section for any reason. This division shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division, an applicant whose spouse is
ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b) The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
§ 111.23 LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the City Council may make
and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to licenses within the corporate limits
of the city, has the following powers, functions, and duties with respect to
retail, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor issued to persons
for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the right of appeal to the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the City Council has been or is being violated, and at
that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, craft brewery, and microdistillery license fees
as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same, after the license
has been delivered to the applicant, to the City Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of cancellation or
revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine or cause to be
examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee, and to hear
testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the City
Council may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
111.30, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting ordinance,
resolution, rule, or regulation duly enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating
to alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or revocation may be appealed to
the Commission within 30 days after the date of the order by filing a notice of
appeal with the Commission. The Commission shall handle the appeal in the
manner provided for hearing on an application in Neb. RS 53-133; and
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the City Council shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, 1
time not less than 7 and not more than 14 days before the time of the hearing.
The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all persons
desiring to give evidence before the City Council in support of or in protest
against the issuance of the license may do so at the time of the hearing. The
hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date of receipt of the
notice from the Commission, and after the hearing the City Council shall cause
to be recorded in the minute record of its proceedings a resolution
recommending either issuance or refusal of the license. The City Clerk shall
mail to the Commission by first class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of the
resolution which shall state the cost of the published notice, except that
failure to comply with this provision shall not void any license issued by the
Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue such a license, the cost of
publication of notice shall be paid by the Commission from the security for
costs.
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the City Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the City Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the City
Council upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm, or
corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the city in any sum which exceeds 2 times the
amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that
license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
§ 111.24 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the premises
of all retail licensees. If it is found that any such licensee is violating any
provision of this chapter, the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, or the rules and
regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission, or is failing to observe
in good faith the purposes of this chapter or the Act, the license may be
suspended, canceled, or revoked after the licensee is given an opportunity to
be heard in his or her defense.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 111.25 LICENSE RENEWAL; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail license issued by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission and
outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in the absence of a
written request by the City Council to require the licensee to submit an
application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an area which
is annexed to the city shall file a formal application for a license, and while
the application is pending, the licensee may continue all license privileges
until the original license expires or is canceled or revoked. If that license
expires within 60 days following the annexation date of the area, the license
may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more than 1 year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the city, 1 time between January 10 and January 30 of
each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of
automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the city,
except that notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall
be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written
protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a license are filed in the
office of the City Clerk by 3 or more residents of the city on or before
February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the City Council shall hold a
hearing to determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed.
Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the City Council
may request a licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 111.26 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license, or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the City Council shall process
the application in the same manner as provided in §
111.23.
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The City Council may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
City Council. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
§ 111.27 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.28 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any city
ordinance, that owner, agent, or other person shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the licensee and be
subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.29 LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT, OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any city ordinance by
any officer, director, manager, or other agent or employee of any licensee, if
the act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge, or
approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.30 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any 5 residents of the city shall have the right to file a complaint with
the City Council stating that any retail licensee subject to the jurisdiction
of the City Council has been or is violating any provision of the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act or the rules or regulations issued pursuant to the Act. The
complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the City Council and
shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining. The complaint shall
state the particular provision, rule, or regulation believed to have been
violated and the facts in detail upon which belief is based. If the City
Council is satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a violation and
that from the facts alleged there is reasonable cause for that belief, it shall
set the matter for hearing within 10 days from the date of the filing of the
complaint and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of the
hearing and of the particular charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in
all cases be disposed of by the City Council within 30 days from the date the
complaint was filed by resolution thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the
final order for purposes of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission as
provided in Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
**** RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS ****
§ 111.45 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, no
license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor within
150 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home for aged or indigent persons
or for veterans, their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail has been
granted by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission for two years continuously
prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued if the commission
gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as prescribed in Neb.
RS 53-133.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premises within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university
within the city, except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
   (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   State commission may waive 300-feet requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01
§ 111.46 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premises which have any access which leads from the premises to
any other portion of the same building or structure used for dwelling or
lodging purposes, and which is permitted to be used or kept accessible for use
by the public. This provision shall not prevent any connection between the
premises and such other portion of the building or structure which is used only
by the licensee, his or her family, or personal guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.47 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the City Council or the city police may
make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall be viewed
in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report concerning
the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 111.48 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)    No alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or
dispensed within the city on any day between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m.
   (B)   No alcoholic liquor, except for beer and wine, shall be sold at retail
or dispensed between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sunday.
   (C)   Beer and wine may be sold at retail or dispensed within the city
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on the following Monday.
   (D)   Alcoholic liquor may be sold at retail and dispensed from 12:00 noon
on Sunday to 2:00 a.m. on the following Monday.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful on property licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open containers to remain or be in
possession or control of any person for purposes of consumption between the
hours of 15 minutes after the closing hour applicable to the licensed premises
and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit licensed premises from being
open for other business on days and hours during which the sale or dispensing
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section.
(Neb. RS 53-179) (Am. Ord. 723, passed 5-19-2015; Am. Ord. 770, passed 2-19-
2019)
§ 111.49 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine from issuing
wine-tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.50 ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks, or
other containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of
alcoholic liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.51 MINOR’S PRESENCE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 111.52 KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells beer
for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity of 5 or
more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the date of the
sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s name and address, and the
number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license, state
identification card, or military identification, if the military identification
contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the purchaser’s signature.
This record shall be on a form prescribed by the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the retail establishment where
the purchase was made for not less than 6 months. The records kept pursuant to
this section shall be available for inspection by any law enforcement officer
during normal business hours or at any other reasonable time. Any person
violating this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.02)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters, or removes the keg
identification number from a beer container or is in possession of a beer
container described in division (A) with an altered or removed keg
identification number after the container has been taken from the licensed
premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the licensed
premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Exemptions
   
112.03   Permit
   
112.04   Permit application
   
112.05   Permit fee
   
112.06   Refusal to leave premises unlawful
   
112.07   Sale of goods on public ways unlawful
   
112.08   Permit revocation; notice and hearing
   
112.09   Permit revocation; appeal
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER or HAWKER. Any person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner,
agent, consignee, or employee, and whether a resident of the city or not, who
engages temporarily within the city in the business of selling and delivering
goods, wares, and merchandise or taking orders for goods or merchandise.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who requests orders as described above for charitable,
civic, religious, or patriotic purposes or who engages in requesting financial
assistance for such purposes.
(Neb. RS 17-134 and 75-323) (1992 Code, § 10-301) (Am. Ord. 462, passed 12-7-
1993)
§ 112.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to any established organization organized
and operated exclusively for charitable, civic, religious, or patriotic
purposes, and not operated for the pecuniary profit of any person, if the
solicitations by that established person or organization are conducted among
the members thereof by other members or officers thereof, voluntarily and
without remuneration for making such solicitations, or if the solicitations are
in the form of collections or contributions at the regular assemblies or
services of any such established organization.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to any person who has been invited to a
house by an occupant thereof. The invitation must be extended prior to the
person entering upon the premises.
   (C)   This chapter shall not apply to persons exercising First Amendment
rights under the U.S. Constitution, such as those who represent religious
organizations, and incidentally sell religious tracts or take orders for
religious periodicals, or those who are circulating petitions.
(1992 Code, § 10-302)
§ 112.03 PERMIT.
   (A)   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous, and unhealthful goods
and services, and to protect the public by maintaining records of the products
sold and the persons and companies responsible for those sales, all peddlers
and hawkers shall, before doing business within the city, make application for,
and be issued a permit.
   (B)   Application for this permit shall be made to the City Police
Department, and shall contain all the necessary information and documents
required for the protection of the residents of the city. Any person or persons
granted a permit shall be subject to any fees, occupation taxes, and other
rules and regulations which the City Council deems appropriate for the purposes
stated herein. Any permit so granted shall be subject to revocation for good
and sufficient cause by the City Police Department.
(Neb. RS 17-134 and 17-525) (1992 Code, § 10-303) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person required to obtain a permit under the above provisions
shall first fill out an application for the same upon a form to be prescribed
by the City Police Department.
   (B)   Applicants for a permit shall file a written, sworn application signed
by the applicant if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, and by the
president if a corporation, with the Police Department, showing:
      (1)   The name or names of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed
that it will be carried on in the city; the local address or addresses of the
person or persons while engaged in that business; the permanent address or
addresses of the person or persons: the capacity in which the person or persons
will act (that is, whether as proprietor, agent, or otherwise); the name and
address of the person, firm, or corporation for whose account the business will
be carried on, if any; and if a corporation, under the law of what state the
same is incorporated;
      (2)   The place or places in the city where it is proposed to carry on
the applicant’s business, and the length of time during which it is proposed
that the business shall be conducted;
      (3)   A statement of the nature of merchandise to be sold or offered for
sale by the applicant;
      (4)   A brief statement of the nature of the advertising done or proposed
to be done in order to attract customers;
      (5)   Credentials from the person for whom the applicant proposes to do
business, authorizing the applicant to act as a representative; and
      (6)   Such other reasonable information as to the identity or character
of the person or persons having the management or supervision of the
applicant’s business or the method or plan of doing that business as the Police
Department may deem proper.
(Neb. RS 17-134) (1992 Code, § 10-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 PERMIT FEE.
   The applicant shall pay a permit fee set by resolution of the City Council
to cover the cost of processing the application and issuing the permit. These
fees may be waived by the Police Department for any charity, public, or
nonprofit group or organization as provided in §
112.02.
(Neb. RS 17-134 and 17-525) (1992 Code, § 10-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 REFUSAL TO LEAVE PREMISES UNLAWFUL.
   Any solicitor, peddler, or hawker of goods or merchandise who enters upon
premises owned or leased by another and willfully refuses to leave the premises
after having been notified by the owner or possessor of the premises or his or
her agent to leave the same, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1992 Code, § 10-307) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.07 SALE OF GOODS ON PUBLIC WAYS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale or peddle
goods, wares, or merchandise upon the public streets, alleys, or sidewalks in
the city without first having obtained a permit as provided in this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 10-308) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.08 PERMIT REVOCATION; NOTICE AND HEARING.
   (A)   The permits issued may be revoked by the City Council after notice and
a hearing, for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for a permit;
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares, or merchandise;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of the permit holder of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude; or
      (5)   Conducting the business permitted under this chapter in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or a menace
to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of a hearing for the revocation of a permit shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. The notice shall be sent by registered mail, postage
prepaid, to the permit holder, at his or her last known address, at least 5
days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Neb. RS 17-134) (1992 Code, § 10-309)
§ 112.09 PERMIT REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City Police Department in regard
to the denial of an application for a permit, or in connection with the
revocation of a permit, shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The
appeal shall be taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Council shall
set the time and place for a hearing on the appeal, and notice shall be given
to the person by registered mail, postage prepaid, at his or her last known
address. The order of the City Council on the appeal shall be final.
(Neb. RS 17-134) (1992 Code, § 10-310)
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Pool Halls, Bowling Alleys, and Skating Rinks
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Hours of operation
   
113.03   Gambling prohibited
**** POOL HALLS, BOWLING ALLEYS, AND SKATING RINKS ****
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOWLING ALLEY. Any room, building, or structure in which a game consisting
of rolling a heavy ball down a wooden lane in an attempt to knock over wooden
pins set upright at the opposite end of the lane is played, whether or not it
is in connection with any other business.
   POOL AND BILLIARDS. A game played on a table in which the object is to drive
balls into the pockets, and which is conducted for profit or gain. All
ordinances relating to POOL AND BILLIARDS shall apply to any such game whether
or not it is conducted in connection with any other business.
   POOL HALL. Any building or place in which any pool, snooker, or billiard
table shall be offered for use for hire, profit, or gain.
   SKATING RINK. Any building or place in which facilities for roller skating
or ice skating are offered for use for hire, profit, or gain.
(1992 Code, § 10-201)
§ 113.02 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a pool hall, bowling
alley, or skating rink to open or make available for public use that pool hall,
bowling alley, or skating rink between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(1992 Code, § 10-203) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.03 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any patron of his or her
business, in which pool or bowling, or other mechanical devices used for
amusement purposes are present, to use those machines for gambling purposes.
(Neb. RS 17-134 and 17-207) (1992 Code, § 10-204) Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 114: LOTTERY
Section
   
114.01   Participation; restrictions
   
114.02   Allotment of net proceeds
§ 114.01 PARTICIPATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person under 19 years of age shall play or participate in any way
in the lottery established and conducted by the city.
   (B)   No owner or officer of a lottery operator with whom the city contracts
to conduct its lottery shall play any lottery conducted by the city. No
employee or agent of the city, lottery operator, or authorized sales outlet
location shall play the lottery of the city for which he or she performs work
during such time as he or she is actually working at the lottery or while on
duty.
   (C)   Nothing shall prohibit any member of the City Council, a city
official, or the immediate family of such a member or official, or an owner or
officer of an authorized sales outlet location for the city, from playing any
lottery conducted by the city; provided that the person is 19 years of age or
older.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. Includes:
      (a)   A person who is related to the member or official by blood,
marriage, or adoption and resides in the same household; or
      (b)   A person who is claimed by the member or official, or spouse of the
member or official, as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 9-646) (Ord. 495, passed
) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.02 ALLOTMENT OF NET PROCEEDS.
   (A)   The city currently conducts a lottery pursuant to the provisions of
the Nebraska County and City Lottery Act, Neb. RS 9-601 through 9-612. Pursuant
to Neb. RS 9-609, the gross proceeds can be used only for community betterment
purposes, awarding prizes, taxes, and expenses. The city now establishes the
community betterment purposes, pursuant to Neb. RS 9-604, for which the
proceeds, after awarding prizes, taxes, and expenses, will be used.
   (B)   All net proceeds from the city lottery, otherwise known as KENO, after
payment of prizes, taxes, and expenses as allowed by law, shall be used for
community betterment purposes as follows:
      (1)   Seventy-five percent shall be used for structures in parks and play
structures and capital improvements to the municipal pool; and
      (2)   Twenty-five percent shall be kept in a trust fund and may be
donated or paid over to other entities in the community (including but not
limited to charitable organizations or foundations) for purposes allowed
pursuant to Neb. RS 9-604, including but not limited to initiating, performing,
or fostering worthy public works or enabling or furthering the erection or
maintenance of public structures and voluntarily supporting, augmenting, or
supplementing services which government would normally render to the people;
however, such gifts shall be conditioned on the requirement that the funds
remain as an endowment and that only the interest or other income from the
funds be used and not the principal.
(1992 Code, § 10-1001) (Ord. 442, passed 4-21-1992; Am. Ord. 463, passed 10-19-
1993; Am. Ord. 774, passed 10-15-2019)
CHAPTER 115: RAILROAD COMPANIES
Section
   
115.01   Safe street crossing conditions
   
115.02   Obstruction of streets prohibited
§ 115.01 SAFE STREET CROSSING CONDITIONS.
   It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing business in, or
traveling through, the city to keep in a suitable and safe condition the
crossings and right-of-way in the city. If any such crossing shall at any time
fall into disrepair and become unsafe or inconvenient for public travel, the
City Council may, by resolution, call upon the company to make whatever repairs
that it may deem necessary to correct the dangerous condition. Notice of this
resolution shall be served upon the local agent of the company. In the event
that the railroad shall fail or neglect to repair and correct the condition as
mentioned above within 48 hours, neglect for each 24 hours thereafter shall be
deemed and is hereby made a separate and distinct offense against the
provisions herein.
(Neb. RS 17-143, 17-144, 17-551, 17-552, and 75-414) (1992 Code, § 10-801)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.02 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company, or its employees, agents, or
servants, operating a railroad through the city to obstruct any of the public
streets within the city by leaving trains or cars standing thereon so as to
prevent the public from crossing the railroad tracks, for a longer period at 1
time than 5 minutes, except in cases of inevitable accident or emergency.
(Neb. RS 17-552) (1992 Code, § 10-802) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 116: FOOD SERVICE
Section
Sidewalk Cafes
   
116.01   Definition
   
116.02   Purpose
   
116.03   Permits
   
116.04   Applications
   
116.05   Indemnity; insurance
   
116.06   Exterior lighting
   
116.07   Permits; conditions for issuance authorized
   
116.08   Permits; transfer prohibited
   
116.09   Fees
   
116.10   Term; revocation
   
116.11   Location
   
116.12   Clear passageway required
   
116.13   Immediate consumption
   
116.14   Use not exclusive
   
116.15   Alcoholic beverages; fence required
   
116.16   No alcohol; designation of area
   
116.17   Advertising
   
116.18   Excessive noise
   
116.19   Standards; maintenance
   
116.20   Litter
   
116.21   Adverse impact
   
116.22   Density
   
116.23   Alcoholic beverages; consumption
   
116.24   Waiver authorized
 
   
116.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see
Ch. 111
**** SIDEWALK CAFES ****
§ 116.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchpater, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK CAFÉ. The portion of the public right of way-kept, used, maintained
and held out to the public as a place where food and\or drinks are served on a
public right of way, which is public through dedication or easement, or public
right-of-way that provides waiter or waitress service and contains tables and
chairs and may contain railings and planters. It is otherwise unenclosed by
fixed walls and open to the air, except that it shall be designated and marked
as hereinafter described.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 116.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is found and declared that a sidewalk café promotes the public
interests by:
      (1)   Making the downtown area an active and attractive pedestrian
environment.
      (2)   Providing the opportunity for creative, colorful pedestrian focused
commercial activities on a day, night and seasonal basis.
      (3)   Encouraging commercial activities which add excitement, charm,
vitality, diversity and good design to the downtown area.
      (4)   Encouraging the upgrading of store fronts and the development of
complete and well designed elements within the downtown area.
      (5)   Promoting land conservation, redevelopment, energy savings and
indirect tax revenue.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to regulate the conditions under
which a merchant in the downtown area may request and receive a permit to vend
food and\or alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages for consumption at tables
placed in a designated area on a public sidewalk. The City Council is aware
that the public sidewalk is intended for the orderly passage of pedestrians in
the downtown area and that any conflict between users of the sidewalk and
sidewalk eating areas is undesirable.
   (C)   The sidewalk café regulations as established in this ordinance are
designed to allow sidewalk cafes on public property in locations where they are
determined to be appropriate by the City Council and to promote and protect the
public health, safety, general welfare and amenity. These general goals include
the following specific purposes:
      (1)   To provide adequate space for pedestrians on the sidewalk adjacent
to sidewalk cafes and to ensure access to adjacent commercial and retail uses.
      (2)   To promote sidewalk cafes as useful and properly planned visual
amenities which better relate to the streetscape.
      (3)   To promote the most desirable use of land and buildings and thereby
protect the city’s tax revenues.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 116.03 PERMITS.
   (A)   Sidewalk cafes may be located on public sidewalks subject to a permit
or license issued by the City Council. Any establishment which is licensed by
the state to sell food on its premises may apply to the city for a special
permit, to conduct a portion of such licensed business on a sidewalk.
   (B)   No person shall operate a sidewalk café upon the streets, sidewalks,
neutral grounds or other public lands in the city without a permit being
granted by the City Council. The business must have a licensed kitchen and
offer a wide selection of food and drinks during the hours and days of
operation. Sidewalk cafes may only be an incidental use to an existing
restaurant.
   (C)   The permit for a sidewalk café is temporary and the permit holder
acquires no right, title or interest in the space permitted to be used.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a sidewalk café permit shall be made to the City Clerk
upon a form to be furnished by the City which application shall set forth the
following:
      (1)   Owner and manager of applicant business.
      (2)   Hours and days of operation.
      (3)   How the extended premises will be supervised and maintained.
      (4)   Maximum number of patrons to be accommodated and description of the
seating to accommodate the maximum number of patrons.
      (5)   Description of the food and drink (alcoholic and\or nonalcoholic)
to be offered for sale. If alcoholic drinks are to be offered for sale,
documentation must be included with the application demonstrating to the
satisfaction of the city that the business will and can obtain the proper
license to sell alcoholic beverages on the sidewalk café area.
      (6)   Such application shall also contain a statement by applicant that
the applicant will, in consideration of being issued a permit for the use of
surface space, agree to hold harmless the city and officers and employees of
the city for any loss or damage arising out of the use, or the discontinuance
of any use; that the applicant understands that the use of the surface space is
to be temporary and that the applicant shall not acquire any right, title or
interest in such space; that the applicant may be required by the city at any
time to vacate all or any part of the surface space that the applicant has been
given permission to use; that upon demand to vacate the area permitted, or
demand to reimburse the city for the cost of removing any personal property and
restoring the surface space to its prior condition the permit holder shall do
so within 15 days and that the applicant shall have no recourse against either
the city nor its officers or agents, either for any loss or damage occasioned
by being requested to vacate all or any part of the surface space which said
applicant has been granted permission to use.
      (7)   Provide a plan, drawn to scale which illustrates the exact location
of the proposed sidewalk café together with the distances and dimensions of
adjoining buildings, the sidewalk, the clear area of the sidewalk, the distance
to the curb and the distance to all obstructions in the vicinity.
   (B)   The application for the permit to establish a sidewalk café must be
submitted to the City Clerk who shall set the application for review by the
City Council.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 116.05 INDEMNITY; INSURANCE.
   Prior to the issuance of the permit, the applicant shall file with the City
Clerk an agreement to indemnify and save harmless the city, its officers and
employees against any loss or liability for damage, including expenses and
costs for bodily injury, and for property damage, sustained by any person as a
result of the applicants operation of a sidewalk café on public property. The
applicant shall also file with the City Clerk a certificate of insurance
demonstrating that the applicant has a satisfactory amount of public liability
and property damage insurance and naming the city as coinsured for such
insurance covering the operation of a sidewalk café in a sum not less than
$1,000,000 and if alcoholic beverages are served, dram shop insurance in a sum
not less than $300,000.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 116.06 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   All exterior lighting shall be shown on the plan submitted with the
application and shall provide such shading as will prevent the source of the
light from being seen from any adjacent residential property, nor shall it
cause illumination beyond the boundaries of the property on which it is located
in excess of 0.5 foot candle, nor shall it have an adverse impact on the flow
of traffic nor shall its design and color be such as may be easily be confused
with a traffic signal.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.07 PERMITS; CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The City Council may impose conditions upon the permit which, in the
judgment of the City Council, protect and promote the health, safety and
welfare of the public or prevent a nuisance from occurring.
   (B)   The conditions may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Restrictions on hours, days and months of operation.
      (2)   Special sanitation and clean up procedures.
      (3)   Types of furnishings or fixtures to be used.
      (4)   Restrictions upon audio, video or communication equipment.
      (5)   Lighting, plantings or ornaments
      (6)   Signage.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 116.08 PERMITS; TRANSFER PROHIBITED.
   The permit issued under this subchapter shall be personal and cannot be
assigned. In the event of the transfer of the supporting business, the new
owner shall make application for a permit hereunder.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.09 FEES.
   (A)   The fee for the first permit granted for the use of the public
sidewalk shall be $100 and the fee for the renewal of a permit shall be $50. If
the ownership of the business is changed or the manner of use of the sidewalk
is changed, application for a new permit shall be made, the fee for which shall
$100. In the event any permit is revoked or suspended, no portion of the fee
shall be refunded.
   (B)   A $1 per square foot license and administration fee shall be paid
annually in addition to the fee for application for a permit. The fee shall be
based on the area of the public sidewalk permitted for sidewalk café purposes.
The square footage shall be based on the designated area in the application
filed herein.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 116.10 TERM; REVOCATION.
   (A)   All permits granted hereunder shall expire on December 31 of the year
for which it is granted. It may be renewed each year as long as all
requirements of this subchapter and the rules and regulations established
continue to be met. The City Council may revoke any permit issued hereunder at
any time if it finds the use of the sidewalk area covered by the permit has
been in violation of the provisions of the ordinances of the city, the rules
and regulations established or the specific conditions of the permit. Prior to
revoking a permit, the City Council shall hold a hearing and shall give notice
of the hearing in writing to the permit holder as hereinafter provided. Any
permit issued hereunder may also be revoked at any time the City Council finds
it is in the public interest to amend or repeal this ordinance so as to not
permit the use of public sidewalks or any portion thereof or determines to
otherwise limit the use thereof.
   (B)   The permit may be revoked with or without cause by written notice to
the address of the applicant contained on the application or latest written
address change provided by the applicant. The city will provide 30 days written
notice of revocation without cause and 10 days notice of revocation with cause.
The following shall constitute grounds for immediate revocation with cause:
      (1)   Failure to use the area for 90 consecutive days.
      (2)   Violation of any the terms and conditions of the permit or
violation of any local state or federal laws, ordinances or regulations
applicable to the licensed area.
      (3)   Failure to maintain the primary business use and required licenses.
      (4)   Violation of alcoholic beverage laws and regulations.
      (5)   Conviction of the applicant for a felony or for violation of a
state, federal or local law involving moral turpitude.
   (C)   Any permit issued pursuant to this section may be revoked at any time
by the City Council when, in the judgment of the City Council such action is
required to protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare. Any
permit may be suspended for such period of time during which the City Council
determines adequate grounds exist.
   (D)   A permit holder does not acquire any right of any nature or kind to
receive a permit or renew an existing permit in a subsequent or successive
year. Every application to renew a permit shall be reviewed annually based on
the criteria set forth in this subchpater. The past performance of the permit
holder and current circumstances may be taken into consideration when
determining whether to approve, deny, suspend or revoke a permit for an
applicant who has previously been granted such a permit.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 116.11 LOCATION.
   The area occupied by the sidewalk café shall abut and shall be operated as
part of the food establishment and drink establishment operated by the
applicant. No part of the sidewalk café shall extend from any premises other
than the applicants' food and drink establishment.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.12 CLEAR PASSAGEWAY REQUIRED.
   A clear, unobstructed passage way of not less than 5 feet in width at all
points, entirely across the frontage of the property to be occupied under the
permit, parallel to the line of the street and generally in the line of
pedestrian traffic shall be maintained at all times, except if the City Council
shall find special circumstances involving site characteristics or the flow of
pedestrian traffic at such location, the conditions of approval may require a
passage way greater than 5 feet or may prohibit operation of the sidewalk café
for certain specified periods. The 5 feet of clear distance shall be free of
all obstructions (such as trees, parking meters, utility poles, and the like)
in order to allow adequate pedestrian movement. The placement of tables, chairs
or other items within the 5-foot clear passage, area is prohibited.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.13 IMMEDIATE CONSUMPTION.
   Only food or beverages for immediate consumption on the premises may be
offered for sale. Intoxicating liquors, beer or wine shall not be consumed
outside of the permitted area on the public right- of-way.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.14 NOT AN EXCLUSIVE USE.
   The permit for the use of a designated area of a public sidewalk as a
sidewalk café shall not be an exclusive use. All public improvements including
but not limited to trees, light poles, planters, traffic signals, refuse
containers, benches or any other public initiated maintenance procedure shall
take precedence on the sidewalk café area used at all times.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.15 FENCE FOR AREAS WHICH SERVE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   If alcoholic beverages are served, the perimeter of the sidewalk café
area shall be separated from the pedestrian passage way of the sidewalk by a
fence or barrier not less than 48 inches in height and not more than 60 inches
in height. The barrier shall be approved by the City Council and the applicant
shall be fully responsible for the proper maintenance and removal of any such
barrier.
   (B)   Sidewalk cafes approved for the sale of alcohol shall have no more
than one open entrance not exceeding 6 feet in width, which shall be within the
view of the manager, owner or employees of the eating and\or drinking
establishment at all times.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.16 NO ALCOHOL; DESIGNATION OF AREA.
   If no alcoholic beverages are served in the permitted area, the permitted
area shall be designated in a proper manner by markings, plants, or other means
approved by City Council.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.17 ADVERTISING.
   No advertising signs, banners or other advertising items shall be permitted
in the sidewalk café area.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.18 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   No bell, chime, siren, whistle or devise for non-emergency purpose shall be
emitted. No loud speaker, public address, radio, sound amplifier or similar
devise may be heard beyond 50 feet form its source.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.19 STANDARDS; MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All tables, chairs, trash receptacles, umbrellas and bases shall be of
a high quality and maintained in a neat, clean and orderly manner and located
in accordance with the application filed by the permit holder. Colors shall be
harmonious and bright or brilliant colors shall be used only for accent.
   (B)   Sidewalk cafes and the public property on which they are located shall
be kept neat and clean at all times and free from any substance that may damage
the sidewalk or cause pedestrian injury.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.20 LITTER.
   The permitee shall promptly remove any litter deposited on or in the
vicinity of the sidewalk café space used by the permitee resulting from the
activity or activities conducted by the permitee on or adjoining such sidewalk
café space.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.21 ADVERSE IMPACT.
   Operation of a sidewalk café shall not adversely impact on adjacent or
nearby residential, religious, educational or commercial properties and shall
be in accordance with all applicable codes and regulations.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 116.22 DENSITY.
   To assure accessibility to commercial, retail and residential premises,
sidewalk cafes located on the same side of the street shall be separated by 2
store fronts or uses or 40 feet along the frontage, whichever is the lesser,
unless the operator of the sidewalk café obtains a written consent of the
owners and tenants of the premises which are located between the restaurants
proposing the sidewalk cafes. Where the above situation is created, the
applicant who must obtain this permission shall be the applicant who last filed
the application or the applicant seeking to locate near an existing sidewalk
café. Restaurants located next to each other, without intervening uses or
entrance ways to buildings may have sidewalk cafes that abut each other.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 116.23 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   All alcoholic beverages to be served at sidewalk cafes shall be prepared
within the existing restaurant and alcoholic drinks shall only be served to
patrons seated at tables. The drinking of alcoholic beverages by a member of
the public while a patron at a sidewalk café, within the confines of the
sidewalk café area, shall not be construed as violation of any ordinance
controlling open containers in a public area. The operator of the sidewalk café
shall take whatever steps are necessary to procure the appropriate license from
the State Liquor Control Commission if it intends to serve alcoholic beverages
in the sidewalk café area and shall comply with all other laws and regulations
concerning the serving of alcoholic beverages in this state.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.24 WAIVER.
   Any of the conditions and requirements of this subchapter may be waived by
the City Council for good cause shown, provided, the health, safety and welfare
of the community must always be held paramount, and the waiver shall not
restrict the safe passage on the sidewalk by the public after taking into
consideration the circumstances surrounding the application.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §§
116.01 through
116.24 shall be liable to prosecution and upon conviction thereof shall be
liable to a fine that shall not exceed $500. Each day of violation shall be a
separate violation.
(Ord. 652, passed 8-19-2009)
CHAPTER 117: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
117.01   Use of city property
   
117.02   Permit required
   
117.03   Permit application
   
117.04   Permit conditions
   
117.05   Compliance required
   
117.06   Revocation of permit
§ 117.01 USE OF CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   The City Council hereby authorizes the City Administrator to
administer at his or her discretion, this chapter, unless otherwise directed by
the City Council.
   (B)   Community or business. Public streets, sidewalks, parks, parking lots
and other public property and facilities may be used temporarily for the
purpose of conducting an organized community or business event.
(Ord. 696, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 117.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No community or business special event shall be conducted on city property
and facilities unless a permit is obtained from the office of the City Clerk
and approved by the City Administrator.
(Ord. 696, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 117.03 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   An organization or individual seeking a permit to request use of city
property or facilities for a special event shall file an application with the
City Clerk on forms provided for a permit. The application shall be filed not
less than 15 days before the date of the proposed special event. The City
Administrator may, if good cause is shown by the organization or individual,
consider an application which has been filed less than 15 days before the date
of the proposed special event.
(Ord. 696, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 117.04 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The City Administrator (or in his absence, the City Clerk or Police
Chief) may approve the permit as submitted or may set additional conditions
upon the request for use of city property or facilities.
   (B)   The City Administrator may approve the permit as submitted or may set
additional conditions upon the request for use of the public street or
sidewalk.
(Ord. 696, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 117.05 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   An organization or individual to which a permit has been issued for a
special event shall comply with all permit conditions and with all applicable
laws and ordinances, unless otherwise directed by the City Administrator in his
or her discretion.
(Ord. 696, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 117.06 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued to an organization or individual for use of city property
or facility for a special event may be revoked by the municipal police or City
Administrator in the event that the permittee is or has engaged in deceitful,
shady or unlawful practices.
(Ord. 696, passed 7-2-2013)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130: PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Criminal mischief
   
130.02   Criminal trespass
   
130.03   Electrical interference
   
130.04   Injury to trees
   
130.05   Posting
   
130.06   Trespassing
   
130.07   Malicious destruction of property
   
130.08   Admission fee; fraudulent avoidance of payment
   
130.09   Shoplifting
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly; or
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
$200 or more but less than $1,500; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously, or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $200 or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(Neb. RS 28-519) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
      (1)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
      (2)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power infrastructure
facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a person who has
the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
   (B)   First degree criminal trespass is a Class I misdemeanor.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation, or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103 to
support the generation, transmission, or distribution of electricity and which
is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (B)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, to enter or remain in
any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
      (a)   Actual communication to the actor; or
      (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to come
to the attention of intruders; or
      (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class III misdemeanor, except
as provided for in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (3)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person.
(Neb. RS 28-521) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE.
   Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign, or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference, provided that the provisions herein shall not apply to the use of
necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference cannot
be reasonably and safely eliminated. Any person who so operates or causes to be
operated any such electrical apparatus that interferes habitually with radio
and television reception shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
(1992 Code, § 6-345) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Provisions on nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 130.04 INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly and without
lawful authority to cut down, carry away, injure, break down, or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade, or other tree or trees standing or growing on any
land belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the
corporate limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any
tree, except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application
to the City Council to do so, and the written permit of the City Council in
accordance with their decision to allow such an action shall constitute the
only lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
(1992 Code, § 6-313) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the streets, sidewalks, or public
grounds of the city for signs, signposts, or the posting of handbills or
advertisements without written permission of the City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 TRESPASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass upon any private grounds
within the city, or to break, cut, or injure any tree, shrub, plant, flower, or
grass growing thereon, or without the consent of the owner or occupant to enter
upon an improved lot or grounds occupied for residence purposes and to loiter
about the same.
(Neb. RS 28-588 and 28-588.01) (1992 Code, § 6-324) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.07 MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
purposely, willfully, or maliciously injure in any manner, or destroy, any real
or personal property of any description belonging to another.
(Neb. RS 28-572 and 28-573) (1992 Code, § 6-325) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08 ADMISSION FEE; FRAUDULENT AVOIDANCE OF PAYMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person fraudulently to enter, without payment
of the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert, or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of public
entertainment or amusement.
(1992 Code, § 6-326) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.09 SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   A person commits the crime of theft by shoplifting when he or she,
with the intent of appropriating merchandise to his or her own use without
paying for the same or to deprive the owner of possession of that property or
its retail value, in whole or in part, does any of the following:
      (1)   Conceals or takes possession of the goods or merchandise of any
store or retail establishment;
      (2)   Alters the price tag or other price marking on goods or merchandise
of any store or retail establishment;
      (3)   Transfers the goods or merchandise of any store or retail
establishment from one container to another;
      (4)   Interchanges the label or price tag from one item of merchandise
with a label or price tag from another item of merchandise; or
      (5)   Causes the cash register or other sales recording device to reflect
less than the retail price of the merchandise.
   (B)   In any prosecution for theft by shoplifting, in order to allow the
owner or owners of shoplifted property the use of that property pending
criminal prosecutions, photographs of the shoplifted property may be accepted
as prima facie evidence as to the identity of the property. The photograph
shall be accompanied by a written statement containing the following:
      (1)   A description of the property;
      (2)   The name of the owner or owners of the property;
      (3)   The time, date, and location where the shoplifting occurred;
      (4)   The time and date the photograph was taken;
      (5)   The name of the photographer; and
      (6)   Verification by the arresting officer.
   (C)   Prior to allowing the use of shoplifted property as provided in this
section, legal counsel for the alleged shoplifter shall have a reasonable
opportunity to inspect and appraise the property and may file a motion for
retention of the property, which motion shall be granted if there is any
reasonable basis for believing that the photographs and accompanying affidavit
may be misleading.
(Neb. RS 28-511.01) (1992 Code, § 6-344) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Disturbing the peace
   
131.03   Encouraging delinquency
   
131.04   Disturbing lawful assembly
   
131.05   Loudspeakers and sound trucks
   
131.06   Rioting
   
131.07   Dwelling in camping trailers, fifth-wheel trailers, motor homes and
recreational vehicles
Order on Public Ways
   
131.20   Street games
   
131.21   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.22   Obstructing water flow
   
131.23   Deposit of material on roadways or ditches
   
131.24   Water flowing onto roadway
Curfew
   
131.40   Definitions
   
131.41   Curfew for juveniles
   
131.42   Exceptions
   
131.43   Parental responsibility
   
131.44   Operator responsibility
   
131.45   Enforcement procedures
   
131.46   Construction; advisory opinions; application
 
   
131.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the city by clamor or noise, intoxication,
drunkenness, fighting, or using obscene or profane language in the streets or
other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by indecent or
disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
(1992 Code, § 6-314) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent disorderly conduct, see Neb. RS 17-129
   Authority to regulate noise, riots, and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.02 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family, or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) (1992 Code, § 6-305) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by any act or neglect, to encourage,
aid, or cause a child to come within the purview of the juvenile authorities;
and it shall likewise be unlawful for any person, after notice that a driver’s
license of any child has been suspended or revoked, to permit that child to
operate a motor vehicle during the period that the driver’s license is
suspended.
(Neb. RS 28-477) (1992 Code, § 6-328) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to disturb, interrupt, or
interfere with any lawful assembly of people, whether religious or otherwise,
by loud and unnecessary noise, threatening behavior, or indecent and shocking
behavior.
(Neb. RS 28-801 through 28-803) (1992 Code, § 6-330) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 LOUDSPEAKERS AND SOUND TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful to play, operate, or use any device known as a sound
truck, loudspeaker or sound amplifier, radio or phonograph, with loudspeaker or
sound amplifier, or any instrument of any kind or character, which emits loud
and raucous noises and is attached to and upon any vehicle, unless the person
in charge of the vehicle shall have first applied to and received permission
from the Chief of Police to operate any such vehicle so equipped.
(1992 Code, § 6-333) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 RIOTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to congregate together for
the purpose of breaching the peace by rioting, or to induce others to riot
through words, actions, or conduct, and whosoever shall congregate with others
for the purpose of rioting or inducing others to riot shall be deemed to be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 17-556 and 28-804) (1992 Code, § 6-339) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 DWELLING IN CAMPING TRAILERS, FIFTH-WHEEL TRAILERS, MOTOR HOMES AND
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the
city to permit, allow or suffer dwelling of any camping trailer, fifth-wheel
trailer, motor home, or recreational vehicle, whether on private property or
public ways, whether for profit or not for profit, unless located within a
recreational vehicle park or residential mobile home park as identified in
Article 3 of the City of Kimball Zoning Ordinance. For purposes of this
section, the following definitions shall apply:
      CAMPING TRAILER. A vehicular portable unit mounted on wheels and
constructed with collapsible partial side walls which fold for towing by
another vehicle and unfold at the campsite to provide temporary living quarters
for recreational, camping, or travel use (as defined in Neb. RS 71-4603, as may
be from time to time amended).
      DWELLING. Overnight habitation by a person or persons.
      FIFTH-WHEEL TRAILER. A unit mounted on wheels, designed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, of such
size or weight as not to require a special highway movement permit, of gross
trailer area not to exceed 430 square feet in the setup mode, and designed to
be towed by a motorized vehicle that contains a towing mechanism that is
mounted above or forward of the tow vehicle’s rear axle (as defined in Neb. RS
71-4603, as may be from time to time amended).
      MOTOR HOME. A vehicular unit primarily designed to provide temporary
living quarters which are built into an integral part of, or permanently
attached to, a self-propelled motor vehicle chassis or van (as defined in Neb.
RS 71-4603, as may be from time to time amended).
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular type unit primarily designed as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which unit
either has its own motive power or is mounted on or towed by another vehicle.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE includes, but is not limited to, travel trailer, park
trailer, camping trailer, truck camper, motor home, and van conversion (as
defined in Neb. RS 71-4603, as may be from time to time amended).
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of the provisions of §
131.07 shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined in a sum of no less than $250 nor more than $1,000. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with
the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 799, passed 11-16-2021)
**** ORDER ON PUBLIC WAYS ****
§ 131.20 STREET GAMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play catch, bat a ball, or kick or
throw a football, or to engage in any exercise or sport, upon the city streets
and sidewalks. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or prevent the
City Council from ordering from time to time certain streets and public places
blocked off for the purpose of providing a safe area to engage in such exercise
and sport.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
§ 131.21 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 131.22 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to prevent water obstruction, see Neb. RS 17-920
§ 131.23 DEPOSIT OF MATERIAL ON ROADWAYS OR DITCHES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any wood, stone, or
other kind of material on any part of any lawful public road within the city
limits, inside of the ditches of the road or outside of the ditches, but so
near thereto as to cause the banks thereof to break into the same or cause the
accumulation of rubbish or any kind of obstruction upon the public
thoroughfares of the city. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit,
place, or allow to remain in or upon any public thoroughfare any material or
substance injurious to persons or property.
(1992 Code, §§ 6-331 and 6-338)
   (B)   No person shall throw, cast, lay, or place upon any street any thorns,
nails, tacks, glass, bottles, window glass, or other articles made of or
containing glass; and in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass
upon any street, the owner or person in charge of that glass, or the person
responsible for the breakage, shall at once remove or cause the same to be
removed from the street.
(Neb. RS 39-683) (1992 Code, § 5-215)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.24 WATER FLOWING ONTO ROADWAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any water to flow into or upon
any public thoroughfare.
(1992 Code, § 6-337) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** CURFEW ****
§ 131.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Kimball, Nebraska, with administrative offices at 223 S.
Chestnut.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, natural disaster, or automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   JUVENILE or MINOR. Any unemancipated person under the age of 18, or, in
equivalent phrasing often herein employed, any person 17 or less years of age.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
      (1)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
      (2)   As a legal guardian;
      (3)   As a person who stands in loco parentis; or
      (4)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by court order.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access, and including, but not limited to, streets, common areas of
schools, shopping centers, parking lots, parks, playgrounds, transportation
facilities, theaters, restaurants, shops, bowling alleys, taverns, cafes,
arcades, and similar areas that are open to the use of the public.
   REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry, and to stay unnecessarily in a public
place, including the congregating of groups (or of interacting minors) totaling
4 or more persons in which any juvenile involved would not be using the streets
for ordinary or serious purposes such as mere passage or going home, or to fail
to leave the premises of an establishment when requested to do so by a police
officer or the operator of an establishment. To implement this provision with
additional precision and precaution, numerous exceptions are expressly defined
in this subchapter.
   STREET. As a type of public place, a STREET is a way or place, of whatever
nature, open to the use of the public as a matter of right for purposes of
vehicular travel or in the case of a sidewalk thereof for pedestrian travel.
STREET includes that legal right-of-way, including but not limited to the
cartway of traffic lanes, the curb, the sidewalks whether paved or unpaved, and
any grass plots or other grounds found within the legal right-of-way of a
street.
   TIME OF NIGHT. Based upon the prevailing standard of time, whether Mountain
Standard Time or Mountain Daylight Savings Time, generally observed at that
hour by the public in the city; prima facie the time then observed in the city
administrative offices and police station.
   YEARS OF AGE. Continues from one birthday, such as the seventeenth, to (but
not including the day of) the next, such as the eighteenth birthday, making it
clear that 17 OR LESS YEARS OF AGE is herein treated as equivalent to the
phrase UNDER EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE, the latter phrase in practice,
unfortunately, having confused a number of persons into the mistaken thought
that 18-year-olds might be involved. Similarly, for example, “11 or less years
of age” means “under 12 years of age.”
(Ord. 560, passed 7-6-1999; Am. Ord. 598, passed 2-6-2001)
§ 131.41 CURFEW FOR JUVENILES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person 17 or less years of age (under 18) to be
or remain in or upon a public place within the city during the period ending at
5:00 a.m. and beginning:
   (A)   At 11:59 p.m. on Friday and Saturday nights; and
   (B)   At 11:00 p.m. on all other nights.
(Ord. 560, passed 7-6-1999; Am. Ord. 598, passed 2-6-2001) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.42 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the operation of
this subchapter:
      (1)   When a juvenile is accompanied by a parent of that juvenile;
      (2)   When a juvenile is accompanied by an adult authorized in writing by
a parent of that juvenile to take that parent’s place in accompanying the
juvenile for a designated period of time and purpose within a specified area;
      (3)   When the juvenile is on an errand as directed by his or her parent
until the hour of 12:30 a.m.;
      (4)   When a juvenile is exercising First Amendment rights protected by
the U.S. Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech, and the right of assembly, by first delivering to a city police officer
a written communication, signed by the juvenile and countersigned by a parent
of the juvenile with their home address and telephone number, specifying when,
where, and in what manner the juvenile will be in a public place during hours
when the subchapter is applicable to the minor in the exercise of a First
Amendment right specified in that communication;
      (5)   In case of reasonable necessity for the juvenile remaining in a
public place, but only after the juvenile’s parent has communicated to the
Chief of Police or the person designated by the Chief of Police to receive such
notifications the facts establishing the reasonable necessity relating to a
specified public place at a designated time for a described purpose including
points of origin and destination. A copy of the communication, or of the police
record thereof, duly certified by the Chief of Police to be correct with an
appropriate notation of the time it was received and of the names and addresses
of the parent and juvenile, shall be admissible evidence;
      (6)   When a juvenile is on the sidewalk or property where the juvenile
resides, or on either side of or across the street from the place where the
juvenile resides and the adult owner or resident of that property has given
permission for the juvenile to be there;
      (7)   When a juvenile is returning home by a direct route (without any
unnecessary detour or stop) from and within 1 hour of the termination of a
school activity or an activity of a religious or other voluntary association,
or a place of public entertainment, such as a movie, play, or sporting event.
If the event is not commercial in nature or does not have a fixed, publicly
known time at which it will or does end, the sponsoring organization must
register the event with the City Police Department at least 24 hours in
advance, informing the Police Department of the time that the event is
scheduled to begin, the place at which it shall be held, the time at which it
shall end, and the name of the sponsoring organization;
      (8)   When authorized by special permit from a city police officer
carried on the person of the juvenile thus authorized, as follows: when
necessary nighttime activities of a juvenile may be inadequately provided for
by other provisions of this subchapter, then recourse may be had to a city
police officer, either for a regulation as provided in division (A)(9) or for a
special permit as the circumstances warrant. Upon the findings of reasonable
necessity for the use of a public place to the extent warranted by a written
application signed by a juvenile and by a parent of the juvenile stating the
name, age, and address of the juvenile; the name, address, and telephone number
of a parent thereof; the height, weight, sex, color of eyes and hair, and other
physical characteristics of the juvenile; the necessity that requires the
juvenile to remain upon a public place during the curfew hours otherwise
applicable; the public place; and the beginning and ending of the period of
time involved by date and hour, a city police officer may grant a permit in
writing for the juvenile’s use of a public place at such hours as in the
opinion of the officer may reasonably be necessary and consistent with the
purposes of this subchapter. In an emergency this may be handled by telephone
or other effective communication, with a corresponding record being made
contemporaneously, at the police station;
      (9)   When authorized by regulation issued by the Chief of Police, or his
or her designee, in other similar cases of reasonable necessity, similarly
handled by adapted to reasonably necessary nighttime activities of more
juveniles than can readily be dealt with on an individual special permit basis.
Normally such regulation permitting use of public places should be issued
sufficiently in advance to permit appropriate publicity through news media and
through other agencies such as the schools, and shall define the activity, the
scope of the use of the public places permitted, the period of time involved
(not to extend more than 1 hour beyond the time for termination of the
activity), and the reason for finding that the regulation is reasonably
necessary and is consistent with the purposes of this subchapter;
      (10)   When the juvenile is legally employed and carries a certified card
of employment, renewable each calendar month when the current facts so warrant,
dated or re-issued not more than 45 days previously, signed by a city police
officer and briefly identifying the juvenile, the addresses of the juvenile’s
home and of the juvenile’s place of employment, and the juvenile’s hours of
employment;
      (11)   When the juvenile is, with parental consent, engaged in normal
interstate travel through the city or originating or terminating in the city;
      (12)   When the juvenile is married or has been married pursuant to state
law; or
      (13)   In the case of an operator of an establishment, when the operator
has notified the police that a juvenile was present on the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (B)   Each of the foregoing exceptions, and their several limitations such
as provisions for notification, are severable, and will be considered by
Council when warranted by the future experience illuminated by the views of
student government associations, school personnel, citizens, associations,
parents, officers, and persons in authority concerned positively with juveniles
as well as with juvenile delinquency.
(Ord. 560, passed 7-6-1999; Am. Ord. 598, passed 2-6-2001)
§ 131.43 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for a parent having legal custody of a juvenile
knowingly to permit or by inefficient control to allow the juvenile to remain
in any city public place under circumstances not constituting an exception to,
or otherwise beyond the scope of, this subchapter. The term “knowingly”
includes knowledge that a parent should be reasonably be expected to have
concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile in that parent’s legal custody. This
requirement is intended to hold a neglectful or careless parent up to a
reasonable community standard of parental responsibility through an objective
test. It shall, therefore, be no defense that a parent was completely
indifferent to the activities or conduct or whereabouts of the juvenile.
(Ord. 560, passed 7-6-1999; Am. Ord. 598, passed 2-6-2001) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.44 OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any operator of an establishment to knowingly
permit a juvenile to remain at the establishment under circumstances not
constituting an exception to, or otherwise beyond the scope of, this
subchapter. The term “knowingly” includes knowledge that an operator should
reasonably be expected to have concerning the patrons of the establishment. The
standard for “knowingly” shall be applied through an objective test: whether a
reasonable person in the operator’s position should have known that the patron
was a juvenile in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 560, passed 7-6-1999; Am. Ord. 598, passed 2-6-2001) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.45 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   If a police officer reasonably believes that a juvenile is in a public
place in violation of this subchapter, the officer shall notify the juvenile
that he or she is in violation of this subchapter and shall require the
juvenile to provide his or her name, address, and telephone number and how to
contact his or her parent or guardian. In determining the age of the juvenile
and in the absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate or a
driver’s license, a police officer shall, in the first instance of violation of
this subchapter, use his or her best judgment in determining age.
   (B)   The police officer may issue the juvenile a written warning that the
juvenile is in violation of this subchapter and order the juvenile to go
promptly home. The Chief of Police shall send the parent or guardian of the
juvenile written notice of the violation pursuant to §
131.43.
   (C)   Police procedures shall constantly be refined in the light of
experience and may provide that the police officer may deliver to a parent or
guardian thereof a juvenile whose identity and address may readily be
ascertained or are known.
   (D)   In the case of a violation of this subchapter by a juvenile, the Chief
of Police shall by certified mail send to a parent or guardian written notice
of the violation with a warning that any subsequent violation may result in
full enforcement of this subchapter, including enforcement of parental
responsibility and of applicable penalties.
   (E)   For the first violation of this subchapter by an operator of an
establishment who permits a juvenile to remain on the premises, a police
officer shall issue a written notice of the violation with a warning that any
subsequent violation may result in full enforcement of the subchapter,
including enforcement of operator responsibility and of applicable penalties.
   (F)   In any event the police officer shall, within 24 hours, file a written
report with the Chief of Police or shall participate to the extent of the
information for which he or she is responsible in the preparation of a report
on the curfew violation. It is not the intention of this section to require
extensive reports that will prevent police officers from performing their
primary police duties. The reports shall be as simple as is reasonably possible
and may be completed by police departmental personnel other than sworn police
officers.
(Ord. 560, passed 7-6-1999; Am. Ord. 598, passed 2-6-2001) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.46 CONSTRUCTION; ADVISORY OPINIONS; APPLICATION.
   The Mayor, after consultation with the City Attorney, is hereby authorized
to give advisory opinions in writing, which shall be binding and shall be
adhered to by the police, until this subchapter is amended in that respect,
interpreting terms, phrases, parts, or any provisions. Normally such advisory
opinions shall be in response to good faith, signed letters addressed to the
Mayor or to a member of the City Council, questioning the Curfew Ordinance as:
ambiguous; having a potentially chilling effect on constitutional rights
specifically invoked; or otherwise invalid, in all 3 categories with respect to
proposed conduct definitely described. This administrative remedy must be
exhausted prior to presenting to any court a question in any of the 3
categories. The City Council does not intend a result through the enforcement
of the subchapter that is absurd, impossible of execution, or unreasonable. The
Council intends that the subchapter be held inapplicable in those cases, if
any, where its application would be unconstitutional under the Nebraska
Constitution or the U.S. Constitution.
(Ord. 560, passed 7-6-1999; Am. Ord. 598, passed 2-6-2001)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter for which no other penalty is prescribed
shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of §§
131.40 et seq. shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed each quarter hour of that failure to comply.
      (2)   Any juvenile who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
131.40 et seq. more than 3 times shall be reported by the Chief of Police to
the County Attorney as a juvenile in need of supervision.
(Ord. 560, passed 7-6-1999; Am. Ord. 598, passed 2-6-2001)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
132.01   Impersonating a public servant
   
132.02   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.03   Refusing to aid a peace officer
   
132.04   Resisting arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon
   
132.05   Obstructing a peace officer
   
132.06   Interfering with a firefighter
   
132.07   False reporting
   
132.08   Concealing knowledge of offenses
   
132.09   Unlawful act or failure to comply with required act
   132.10   Interference with a peace officer
§ 132.01 IMPERSONATING A PUBLIC SERVANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person falsely to pretend to be a public
servant other than a peace officer and perform any act in that pretended
capacity. It is no defense that the office the actor pretended to hold did not
in fact exist.
(Neb. RS 28-609) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity.
(Neb. RS 28-610) (1992 Code, § 6-321) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to him
or her to be a peace officer, unreasonably to refuse or fail to aid the peace
officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of this state or city; or
   (B)   Securing the offender when apprehended; or
   (C)   Conveying the offender to the jail of the county or this city.
(Neb. RS 28-903) (1992 Code, § 6-336) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 RESISTING ARREST WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS WEAPON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the use of a deadly or
dangerous weapon, while intentionally preventing or attempting to prevent a
peace officer, acting under color of his or her official authority, from
effecting an arrest of the actor or another, to:
      (1)   Use or threaten to use physical force or violence against the peace
officer or another;
      (2)   Use any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
      (3)   Employ means requiring substantial force to overcome resistance to
effecting the arrest.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section if the
peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or
herself as a peace officer by showing his or her credentials to the person
whose arrest is attempted.
(Neb. RS 28-904) (1992 Code, § 6-301) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of obstructing a peace officer when, by
using or threatening to use violence, force, physical interference, or
obstacle, he or she intentionally obstructs, impairs, or hinders:
      (1)   The enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace
by a peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official
authority; or
      (2)   A police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the
peace officer's official authority.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, POLICE ANIMAL means a horse or dog owned
or controlled by the city or the state for the purpose of assisting a city law
enforcement officer or a state trooper acting pursuant to his or her official
authority.
(Neb. RS 28-906) (1992 Code, § 6-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06 INTERFERING WITH A FIREFIGHTER.
   A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if at any
time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to discharge
any official duties, the person willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty;
   (B)   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties;
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire, or
exhorts another person, as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation
to protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (1992 Code, § 6-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07 FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
out-of-hospital emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or
property are in jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service, or other
person or governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause information to be furnished or
conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic, or mechanical means, knowing the
same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a fire department or any
personnel or equipment of such a department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person; or
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding the investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Neb. RS 28-907) (1992 Code, § 6-303) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.08 CONCEALING KNOWLEDGE OF OFFENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal knowledge of the commission
of any offense or to conceal knowledge of any unlawful act as defined in this
code.
(1992 Code, § 6-327) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.09 UNLAWFUL ACT OR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH REQUIRED ACT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act or fail to perform any
requirement which is prohibited or required by state law, insofar as those laws
are applicable to city government.
(1992 Code, § 6-329) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.10 INTERFERENCE WITH A PEACE OFFICER.
   No person shall commit any act, be it physical or verbal that interferes,
prohibits, or hinders a peace officer from performing their lawful duties if
reasonable articulable suspicion is present that a crime has occurred, is
occurring or is about to occur.
(Ord. 824, passed 8-15-2023)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Maintaining a nuisance
   
133.02   Appliances in yard
   
133.03   Putting carcass or filthy substance into well, spring, brook, or
stream
   
133.04   Prohibited fences
   
133.05   Weeds; litter; stagnant water
   
133.06   Littering
   
133.07   Raising or producing stagnant water
   
133.08   Junk; keeping restricted
   
133.09   Entry into public pool area after closing
Substance Offenses
   
133.25   Use of tobacco products, electronic delivery systems, and alternative
nicotine products by minors
   
133.26   Sale of tobacco to minors
   
133.27   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain tobacco
   
133.28   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain alcohol
   
133.29   Minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor
   
133.30   Drinking on public property; open beverage container
   
133.31   Tobacco purchase by minors prohibited
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
133.45   Abandoned automobiles
   
133.46   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
   
133.47   Shooting highway signs, markers, or notices
   
133.48   Removal and possession of highway signs, markers, or notices
   
133.49   Parking and storage of certain vehicles in residential zones
prohibited
Weapons Offenses
   
133.60   Discharge of firearms
   
133.61   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns, toy weapons
Garbage
   
133.75   Offensive or unhealthy substances prohibited
   
133.76   Sweeping rubbish into public ways prohibited
   
133.77   Accumulation of rubbish prohibited
 
   
133.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned and Wrecked Vehicles, see
Chapter 98
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 133.01 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of maintaining a nuisance if he or she
erects, keeps up or continues, and maintains any nuisance to the injury of any
part of the citizens of this city.
   (B)   The erecting, continuing, using, or maintaining of any building,
structure, or other place for the exercise of any trade, employment,
manufacture, or other business which, by occasioning noxious exhalations,
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health,
comfort, or property of individuals or the public; the obstructing or impeding,
without legal authority, of the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or
collection of water; or the corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure of
any watercourse, stream, or water; or unlawfully diverting any such watercourse
from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of others; and the
obstructing or encumbering by fences, building, structures or otherwise of any
of the public highways or streets or alleys of the city, shall be deemed
nuisances.
   (C)   A person guilty of erecting, continuing, using, maintaining, or
causing any such nuisance shall be guilty of a violation of this section and in
every such case the offense shall be construed and held to have been committed
in any county whose inhabitants are or have been injured or aggrieved thereby.
   (D)   The court, in case of conviction of such offense, shall order every
such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1321) (1992 Code, § 6-306) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless the person first removes
all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
(1992 Code, § 6-308) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 133.03 PUTTING CARCASS OR FILTHY SUBSTANCE INTO WELL, SPRING, BROOK, OR
STREAM.
   Whoever shall put any dead animal, carcass or part thereof, or other filthy
substance into any well, or into any spring, brook, or branch of running water,
of which use is made for domestic purposes, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.04 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
the fence abuts a public sidewalk, street, or alley.
(1992 Code, § 6-307) (Am. Ord. 478, passed 8-16-1994) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on barbed wire fences, see Neb. RS 39-307
§ 133.05 WEEDS; LITTERING; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the city shall be drained or filled so
as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the city
shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free
of any growth of 6 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the city is prohibited, except that grass, leaves, and
worthless vegetation may be used as a ground mulch or in a compost pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 6 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation
or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper
receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. If notice by personal service or certified mail is
unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city or by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot or
ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. Within 5 days after
receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground may
request a hearing with the city or village to appeal the decision to abate or
remove a nuisance by filing a written appeal with the Office of the City or
Village Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14 days after the
filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an elected or appointed officer
as designated in the ordinance. The Hearing Officer shall render a decision on
the appeal within 5 business days after the conclusion of the hearing. If the
appeal fails, the city or village may have such work done. Within 5 days after
receipt of such notice or publication or posting, whichever is applicable, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
with the city or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the city may have such work done.
      (2)   If unpaid for 2 months after the work is done, the city may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessment for improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
      (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
      (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation;
      (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
      (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a machine
or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      WEEDS. Include, but are not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. RS 17-563) (1992 Code, § 6-309) (Am. Ord. 738, passed 8-16-2016) Penalty,
see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority to regulate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 133.06 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards, or otherwise disposes of
any litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the
offense of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of that
type of material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to
so use the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for that purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes all waste material susceptible of being dropped,
deposited, discarded, or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property
in the state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any
motor vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the
motor vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523) (1992 Code, § 6-317) (Am. Ord. 509, passed 11-21-1995)
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.07 RAISING OR PRODUCING STAGNANT WATER.
   Whoever shall build, erect, continue, or keep up any dam or other
obstruction in any river or stream of water in the city and thereby raise an
artificial pond, or produce stagnant waters, which shall be manifestly
injurious to the public health and safety shall be guilty of an offense and the
court shall, moreover, order every such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1303) (1992 Code, § 6-346) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.08 JUNK; KEEPING RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep any old articles or
materials which may be classified as junk adjacent to or in close proximity to
any schoolhouse, church, public park, public grounds, business building, or
residence without first providing proper and tight buildings for the storage of
the same. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1992 Code, § 6-332) (Am. Ord. 588, passed 2-22-2000) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.09 ENTRY INTO PUBLIC POOL AREA AFTER CLOSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in a city swimming pool, the
surrounding area enclosed by a fence, or the swimming pool building, except
during those hours of the day when the swimming pool shall be open for public
use; provided, that the employees of the city responsible for the operation of
the pool may conduct activities which are necessary for the operation and
maintenance of the pool after the pool is closed to the public; and provided
further, that any person or group of persons authorized by the City Council or
Swimming Pool Board may use the swimming pool facilities at such time as the
swimming pool is not open for public use.
(1992 Code, § 6-341) Penalty, see §
133.99
**** SUBSTANCE OFFENSES ****
§ 133.25 USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, ELECTRONIC DELIVERY SYSTEMS, AND ALTERNATIVE
NICOTINE PRODUCTS BY MINORS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
possess any tobacco products, electronic delivery system, or alternative
nicotine product; provided that it shall not be prohibited for a person under
the age of 21 years to stock, sack, or carry tobacco products, electronic
delivery systems, or alternative nicotine products if engaged in the course and
scope of their employment.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
         ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT. Any noncombustible product containing
nicotine that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, absorbed,
dissolved, or ingested by any other means.
         ELECTRONIC DELIVERY SYSTEM. Any product or device that, through an
aerosolized solution, delivers nicotine, tobacco, tobacco derivatives, flavor,
or any other substance to the user inhaling from the device. For purposes of
this definition, DELIVERY of nicotine, tobacco, tobacco derivatives, flavor, or
any other substance shall include delivery in the form of vapor, fog, mist,
gas, or aerosol, whether through the use of a heating element, power source,
electronic circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, and
regardless of shape or size.
         TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance or product containing tobacco or
tobacco leaf, including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco,
snuff, chewing tobacco, and dipping tobacco.
   (B)   Any person who violates this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to a fine of $250 for a first offense and $500 for a
second and subsequent offense. Each and every day that a violation occurs or
exists shall constitute a separate offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1418) (Am. Ord. 813, passed 2-7-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.26 SALE OF TOBACCO TO MINORS.
   Whoever shall sell, give, or furnish in any way any tobacco in any form
whatever, or any cigarettes or cigarette paper, to any minor under 18 years of
age shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1419) (1992 Code, § 6-320) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.27 MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR TO OBTAIN TOBACCO.
   Any person under the age of 18 years who shall obtain cigars, tobacco,
cigarettes, or cigarette material from a licensee hereunder by representing
that he or she is of the age of 18 years or over, shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1427) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.28 MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR TO OBTAIN ALCOHOL.
   No minor, as defined by Neb. RS 53-103.23, shall obtain, or attempt to
obtain, alcoholic liquor by misrepresentation of age, or by any other method,
in any tavern or other place where alcoholic liquor is sold.
(Neb. RS 53-180.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Penalty for manufacturing false identification intended for minors, see Neb.
RS 53-180.05
§ 133.29 MINORS; PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-
103.01 through 53-103.42 shall apply, including, but not limited to, the
definitions of the terms “alcoholic liquor,” “consume,” “minor,” “sale,” and
“to sell.”
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in § 111.20, no minor may sell, dispense,
consume, or have in his or her possession or physical control any alcoholic
liquor in any tavern or in any other place, including public streets, alleys,
roads, or highways, upon property owned by the state or any subdivision
thereof, or inside any vehicle while in or on any other place, including, but
not limited to, the public streets, alleys, roads, or highways, or upon
property owned by the state or any subdivision thereof, except that a minor may
consume, possess, or have physical control of alcoholic liquor as a part of a
bona fide religious rite, ritual, or ceremony or in his or her permanent place
of residence.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume, or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Neb. RS 53-180.02) (1992 Code, § 6-318) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Minor Alcoholic Liquor Liability Act, see Neb. RS 53-401 through 53-409
§ 133.30 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
      (a)   Beer, ale, porter, stout, and other similar fermented beverages,
including sake or similar products, of any name or description, containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute therefor;
      (b)   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume; or
      (c)   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl alcohol,
ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and mixtures
thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
      (d)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
      HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the right-of-
way.
      LIMOUSINE. A luxury vehicle used to provide prearranged passenger
transportation on a dedicated basis at a premium fare that has a seating
capacity of at least 5 and no more than 14 persons behind the driver with a
physical partition separating the driver seat from the passenger compartment.
LIMOUSINE does not include taxicabs, hotel or airport buses or shuttles, or
buses.
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-
123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(c), any bottle, can, or other receptacle:
      (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
      (b)   (i)   That is open or has a broken seal; or
         (ii)   The contents of which are partially removed.
      PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while
the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to
the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for any
person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle to possess an open alcoholic
beverage container while the motor vehicle is located in a public parking area
or on any highway in this city.
   (C)   Except as provided in §
111.03 or division (D) of this section, it is unlawful for any person to
consume an alcoholic beverage:
      (1)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this city; or
      (2)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this city.
   (D)   This section does not apply to persons who are passengers of, but not
drivers of, a limousine or bus being used in a charter or special party service
as defined by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the state Public
Service Commission and subject to Neb. Admin. Code, Chapter 75, Article 3. Such
passengers may possess open alcoholic beverage containers and may consume
alcoholic beverages while such limousine or bus is in a public parking area or
on any highway in this city if:
      (1)   The driver of the limousine or bus is prohibited from consuming
alcoholic liquor; and
      (2)   Alcoholic liquor is not present in any area that is readily
accessible to the driver while in the driver’s seat, including any compartments
in such area.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.08)
(1992 Code, § 6-316) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.31 TOBACCO PURCHASE BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years to smoke,
purchase, or attempt to acquire tobacco, cigarettes, or cigars of any kind.
(Neb. RS 28-1418) (1992 Code, § 6-319) Penalty, see §
133.99
**** MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES ****
§ 133.45 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (a)   A motor vehicle is an  ABANDONED VEHICLE:
         (i)   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In Transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than 6 hours on any public property;
         (ii)   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
         (iii)   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
         (iv)   If left unattended for more than 7 days on private property if
left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission of the
owner is terminated;
         (v)   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (D) of this section; or
         (vi)   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a city
ordinance or this code.
      (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
         (i)   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
         (ii)   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
         (iii)   If left unattended for more than 7 days on private property if
left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission of the
owner is terminated;
         (iv)   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (D) of this section; or
         (vi)   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a city
ordinance or this code.
      (c)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431 shall
be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this division (A).
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park or
other state, county, or city-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid In Transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $250 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
city. Any certificate of title issued under this division to the city shall be
issued at no cost to the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) of this section,
the city shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such
vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The city shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, that the
vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if
unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after 5
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the city 30 days after the date such notice
was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (b) of this
section also notifies the city that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice
shall also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such
vehicle shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such
vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
city:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) of this
section;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the city will
retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) of this section, the city may retain for use, sell, or auction the
abandoned vehicle. If the city has determined that the vehicle should be
retained for use, the city shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is
mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the city intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use
and that title will vest in the city 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a city law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle
for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it
shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners stating
that the vehicle is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the
vehicle is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30
days the agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(a)(5) or (A)(b)(4) of this section to be removed from public property in
this city, the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a
state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division (A)(a)(1), (2),
(3), or (4) or (A)(b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section to be removed from public
property in this city, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the city
which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (F)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the city's
custody less any expenses incurred by the city shall be held by the city
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of 2 years. If not claimed within such 2-year period, the proceeds
shall be paid into the general fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (G)   Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the city, shall be liable for any loss or
damage to such vehicle which occurs during its removal or while in the
possession of the city or its contractual agent or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (H)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A)(a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) or (A)(b)(1), (2), or (3) of
this section.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (I)   No person other than one authorized by the city or appropriate state
agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is left
unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates affixed or
which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (J)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the city for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (K)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1911) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 133.46 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the city, other
than city property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise,
shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked, or discarded
vehicle to remain on that property longer than 30 days.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or
public property for any length of time, provided that this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle bearing a valid “In Transit” sticker;
      (2)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (3)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when the vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the city.
   (C)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   “In Transit” stickers, see Neb. RS 60-376
§ 133.47 SHOOTING HIGHWAY SIGNS, MARKERS, OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully or maliciously to shoot upon
the public highway and injure, deface, damage, or destroy any signs, monuments,
road markers, traffic-control or surveillance devices, or other public notices
lawfully placed upon the highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130(1)) (1992 Code, § 6-342) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.48 REMOVAL AND POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGNS, MARKERS, OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than those authorized to do so,
to remove any sign, traffic-control, or traffic surveillance device placed
along a public street, road, or highway for traffic control, warning, or
informational purposes. Moreover, it shall be unlawful for any person to
possess such a sign or device which has been removed in violation of this
section.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130(3)) (1992 Code, § 6-343) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.49 PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall allow, permit or suffer any semitrailer or truck-
tractor to be parked or stored on public streets or private lots in the City of
Kimball residential zoning districts R1 or R3 as defined in the City of Kimball
Zoning Ordinance #736, unless such parking or storage complies with all of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Such person shall be the owner or occupant of a residential lot
within City of Kimball zoning districts R1 or R3;
      (2)   Such person shall not allow, permit or suffer more than 1
semitrailer or truck-tractor to be parked upon their owned or occupied
residential lot or its adjacent street frontage at any time;
      (3)   Such person shall not park a semitrailer or truck-tractor longer
than 36 consecutive hours and then only when such semitrailer or truck-tractor
is used for personal conveyance;
      (4)   Such person shall not idle the semitrailer or truck-tractor between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless the ambient air temperature in
Kimball, Nebraska is below 10 degrees Fahrenheit, in which event such person
may idle the semitrailer or truck-tractor for no more than 15 minutes per 60-
minute period;
   (B)   Any person may request, in advance, a written temporary waiver of the
provisions of this §
133.49 for the purpose of such person parking a semitrailer or truck-tractor
while on vacation or other extended leave from the City of Kimball. Any such
waiver request made pursuant to this section shall be made to the City of
Kimball Chief of Police who, after review, shall have sole discretion to
approve or deny any such waiver request.
   (C)   The regulations of this § 133.49 shall not prohibit semitrailers or
truck-tractors from temporary loading or unloading in such districts in
servicing uses therein.
   (D)   For purposes of this § 133.49, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      (1)   SEMITRAILER. Any trailer so constructed that some part of its
weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by the hauling vehicle.
SEMITRAILER does not include an auxiliary axle, car toter, or tow dolly.
SEMITRAILER does not include a camping trailer as defined in Neb. RS 71-4603.
(Neb. RS 60-348)
      (2)   TRUCK-TRACTOR. Any motor vehicle designed and used primarily for
hauling other motor vehicles or trailers and not so constructed as to carry a
load other than a part of the weight of the motor vehicle or trailer and load
being hauled. TRUCK-TRACTOR does not include any motor vehicle, whatsoever,
with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of 26,000 lbs. or less.
(Neb. RS 60-357)
      (3)   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle or trailer, including
idling, whether occupied or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in loading or unloading said vehicle or trailer.
(Neb. RS 60-645)
      (4)   IDLE. An engine or motor of a semitrailer or truck-tractor which is
running or operational while said semitrailer or truck-tractor is not moving or
otherwise set to a neutral gear or park gear.
   (E)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this §
133.49 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500. Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as a separate offense. Each individual vehicle found in
violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as a separate offense.
   (F)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this §
133.49 may be issued a citation, ordered to remove the violation, and/or be
subject to towing of the vehicle by the city or its agent, with all reasonable
cost of towing, storage, and removal being charged to the violating individual,
and payable to the city, within 30 days from the date of removal.
(Ord. 814, passed 4-4-2023)
**** WEAPONS OFFENSES ****
§ 133.60 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall fire or discharge any gun, pistol, fowling piece or
other firearm within the corporate limits of this city, except that this
section shall not apply to an officer of the law in the discharge of his or her
duties, to a military rite for any branch of armed service, to a person having
obtained written permission from the Chief of Police, to a person utilizing a
firing or gunner range which has been established or approved by the City
Council, to any discharge on private or public property for self-defense or
defense of others, nor to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the
persons so discharging firearms have written permission from the Chief of
Police or City Administrator.
   (B)   The City Administrator, may, through a special events permit, allow
organized activities listed herein within the city limits. In allowing a
special events permit, the City Administrator may consider, among other
concerns, insurance and safety to the general public.
(1992 Code, § 6-311) (Am. Ord. 811, passed 11-1-2022) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 133.61 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS, TOY WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any toy pistol, toy
gun, air gun, bow and arrow, crossbow, slingshot loaded with rock or leaden or
other device capable of projecting a missile able to inflict harm to persons or
animals or to injure property, within the limits of this city, except under
special conditions approved by the City Administrator for practicing the use of
any such devices or giving exhibitions or holding competitions for their use,
except that this section shall not apply to an officer of the law in the
discharge of his or her duties, to a military rite for any branch of armed
service, to a person having obtained written permission from the Chief of
Police, to a person utilizing a firing or gunner range which has been
established or approved by the City Council, to any discharge on private or
public property for self-defense or defense of others, nor to officially
sanctioned public celebrations if the persons so discharging have written
permission from the Chief of Police or City Administrator.
   (B)   The City Administrator, may, through a special events permit, allow
organized activities listed herein within the city limits. In allowing a
special events permit, the City Administrator may consider, among other
concerns, insurance and safety to the general public.
(1992 Code, § 6-312) (Am. Ord. 675, passed 8-3-2011; Am. Ord. 811, passed 11-1-
2022) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
**** GARBAGE ****
§ 133.75 OFFENSIVE OR UNHEALTHY SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in or about any dwelling house,
building, or premises in the city any substances that may be injurious to the
public health or offensive to the residents in the vicinity of the city.
(1992 Code, § 6-348) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.76 SWEEPING RUBBISH INTO PUBLIC WAYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or sweep into the streets,
sidewalks, alleys, parks, public buildings, or public grounds of the city any
dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass or board, fruit parings or skins, garbage,
rubbish, waste, and litter of any kind.
(1992 Code, § 6-349) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.77 ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, to deposit, to let fall, to
accumulate, or to let stand any rubbish, waste, or litter upon private
premises, streets, sidewalks, alleys, public buildings, public grounds, and
vacant lots within the city.
(1992 Code, § 6-350) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter for which no other penalty is prescribed
shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of §
133.08 shall be liable for a civil monetary penalty in the amount of $100
together with the costs of the action.
      (2)   Any person who has, within 365 days, twice violated or refused to
comply with the enforcement within 1 year, as adjudged by a court of competent
jurisdiction, shall be liable for a civil monetary penalty in the amount of
$250 together with the costs of the action.
      (3)   Any person who has, within 365 days, 3 times violated or refused to
comply with the enforcement within 1 year, as adjudged by a court of competent
jurisdiction, shall be liable for a civil monetary penalty in the amount of
$500 together with the costs of the action.
(Ord. 588, passed 2-22-2000)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
General Provisions
   
134.01   Prostitution
   
134.02   Public indecency
   
134.03   Gambling
   
134.04   Obscene conduct
   
134.05   Distribution of obscene literature
Sexual Predator Residency Restrictions
   
134.20   Definitions
   
134.21   Residence; prohibited location
   
134.22   Distance; measurement
   
134.23   Separate violations
   
134.24   Exceptions
 
   
134.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 134.01 PROSTITUTION.
   Any person who performs, offers, or agrees to perform any act of sexual
contact or sexual penetration, as those terms are defined in Neb. RS 28-318,
with any person not his or her spouse, in exchange for money or other thing of
value, commits the offense of prostitution.
(Neb. RS 28-801) (1992 Code, § 6-323) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.02 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   A person, 18 years of age or over, commits the offense of public indecency
if such person performs or procures, or assists any other person to perform, in
a public place and where the conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by
members of the public:
   (A)   An act of sexual penetration as defined in Neb. RS 28-318;
   (B)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to affront or
alarm any person; or
   (C)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the same
or opposite sex.
(Neb. RS 28-806) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.03 GAMBLING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 28-
1101 shall be used.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of promoting gambling if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Advances or profits from any unlawful gambling activity by:
         (a)   Engaging in bookmaking;
         (b)   Receiving, in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme or
enterprise, any amount of money played in the scheme or enterprise in any one
day; or
         (c)   Betting something of value in an amount of $500 or more with one
or more persons in one day; or
(Neb. RS 28-1102 and 28-1103)
      (2)   Participates in unlawful gambling as a player by betting less than
$500 in any one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1104)
   (C)   (1)   A person commits the offense of possession of a gambling device
if he or she manufactures, sells, transports, places, possesses, or conducts or
negotiates any transaction affecting or designed to affect ownership, custody,
or use of any gambling device, knowing that it shall be used in the advancement
of unlawful gambling activity.
      (2)   The owner or operator of a retail establishment who is not a
manufacturer, distributor, or seller of mechanical amusement devices as defined
under the Mechanical Amusement Device Tax Act, shall have an affirmative
defense to possession of a gambling device described in division (C)(l) of this
section if the device bears an unexpired mechanical amusement device decal as
required by such Act. However, such affirmative defense may be overcome if the
owner or operator had actual knowledge that operation of the device constituted
unlawful gambling activity at any time such device was operated on the premises
of the retail establishment.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division, any
mechanical game or device classified by the federal government as an illegal
gambling device and requiring a federal Gambling Device Tax Stamp as required
by the Internal Revenue Service in its administration of 26 U.S.C. 4461 and
4462, amended July 1, 1965, by Public Law 89-44, is hereby declared to be
illegal.
(Neb. RS 28-1107)
   (D)   In any prosecution under this section, it shall be an affirmative
defense that the writing, paper, instrument, or article possessed by the
defendant was neither used nor intended to be used in the advancement of an
unlawful gambling activity.
(Neb. RS 28-1108)
   (E)   Proof of possession of any gambling device shall be prima facie
evidence of possession thereof with knowledge of its contents and character.
(Neb. RS 28-1109)
   (F)   It shall be no defense to a prosecution under any provision of this
section relating to gambling that the gambling is conducted outside this city
and is not in violation of the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is
conducted.
(Neb. RS 28-1110)
   (G)   In addition to any other penalty, a sentencing court may order that
any money, securities, negotiable instruments, firearms, conveyances, or
electronic communication devices as defined in Neb. RS 28-833 or any equipment,
components, peripherals, software, hardware, or accessories related to
electronic communication devices, or any gambling devices be forfeited as a
part of the sentence imposed if it finds by clear and convincing evidence
adduced at a separate hearing in the same prosecution, conducted pursuant to
Neb. RS 28-1601, that any or all such property was derived from, used, or
intended to be used to facilitate a violation of this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1111)
   (H)   In any prosecution for an offense defined in this section, when the
defendant's status as a player constitutes an excusing condition, the fact that
the defendant was a player shall constitute an affirmative defense.
(Neb. RS 28-1112)
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
      (1)   Apply to or prohibit wagering on the results of horse races by the
parimutuel or certificate method when conducted by licensees within the
racetrack enclosure at licensed horse race meetings; or
      (2)   Prohibit or punish the conducting or participating in any bingo,
lottery by the sale of pickle cards, lottery, raffle, or gift enterprise when
conducted in accordance with the Nebraska Bingo Act, the Nebraska County and
City Lottery Act, the Nebraska Lottery and Raffle Act, the Nebraska Pickle Card
Lottery Act, the Nebraska Small Lottery and Raffle Act, the State Lottery Act,
or Neb. RS 9-701; or
   (3)   Apply to or prohibit the operation of games of chance, whether using a
gambling device or otherwise, by authorized gaming operators within licensed
racetrack enclosures or the participation or playing of such games of chance,
whether participated in or played using a gambling device or otherwise, by
individuals 21 years of age or older within licensed racetrack enclosures as
provided in the Nebraska Racetrack Gaming Act.
(Neb. RS 28-1113)
   (J)   In any prosecution under this section in which it is necessary to
prove the occurrence of a sporting event, a published report of its occurrence
in any daily newspaper, magazine, or other periodically printed publication of
general circulation shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the occurrence of the event.
(Neb. RS 28-1117)
(1992 Code, § 6-322) (Am. Ord. 801, passed 1-4-2022) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.04 OBSCENE CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or stool in any place open to
the public view, or to be guilty of any lewd, lascivious, or obscene conduct,
or to sing any lewd or obscene song, ballad, or other words in any public place
or any other place where other persons are present, or indecently to exhibit
any animal.
(1992 Code, § 6-334) (Am. Ord. 589, passed 2-22-2000) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.05 DISTRIBUTION OF OBSCENE LITERATURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit, pass, give, or deliver to
another, any obscene, lewd, or indecent book, pamphlet, picture, card, print,
paper, writing, mold, cast, or figure, or to have same in his or her
possession.
(Neb. RS 28-921) (1992 Code, § 6-335) Penalty, see §
134.99
**** SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS ****
§ 134.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
   RESIDE. To sleep, live, or dwell at a place, which may include more than 1
location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives, or dwells, which may
include more than 1 location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in Neb.
RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to the
Sex Offender Registration Act.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has committed an aggravated offense as defined
in Neb. RS 29-4001.01, and who has victimized a person eighteen years or
younger.
(Ord. 661, passed 2-3-2010)
§ 134.21 RESIDENCE; PROHIBITED LOCATION.
   It is unlawful for any sexual predator to reside within 500 feet from a
school or child care facility.
(Ord. 661, passed 2-3-2010; Am. Ord. 762, passed 5-15-2018) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.22 DISTANCE; MEASUREMENT.
   For purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the distance
shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer property line of
the residence to the nearest outer boundary line of the school or child care
facility.
(Ord. 661, passed 2-3-2010)
§ 134.23 SEPARATE VIOLATIONS.
   Each day that a person violates this section shall be considered a separate
violation.
(Ord. 661, passed 2-3-2010)
§ 134.24 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
   (A)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility operated
by the state or a political subdivision;
   (B)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved from
that residence; or
   (C)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial date
of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Ord. 661, passed 2-3-2010)
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter for which no other penalty is prescribed
shall be punishable as set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of §
134.04 shall be liable for a civil monetary penalty in the amount of $100
together with the costs of the action.
   (C)   A person who violates §§
134.20 through
134.24 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 nor less than $250 for
each violation.
(Ord. 589, passed 2-22-2000; Am. Ord. 661, passed 2-3-2010)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   TRAILERS AND TRAILER COURTS
      
152.   SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
      
153.   OIL AND GAS WELLS
      
154.   ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
155.   WELLHEAD PROTECTION
      
156.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Permits and Regulations
   
150.001   Requirement
   
150.002   Limitation
   
150.003   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.004   Barricades and lights
   
150.005   Building Code; adopted by reference
Moving of Buildings
   
150.020   Regulations
   
150.021   Deposit
Unsafe Building Code
   
150.035   Condemnation of unsafe buildings
   
150.036   Written notice; mailing, contents
   
150.037   Notice to vacate; posting
   
150.038   Maintenance of public nuisance unlawful
   
150.039   Procedure for abatement of nuisances
   
150.040   Standards for repair
Wind Energy Conversion Systems
   
150.050   Definitions
   
150.051   Tower
   
150.052   Guy wires
   
150.053   Wind rotor
   
150.054   Electrical components
   
150.055   Noise
   
150.056   Electromagnetic interference
   
150.057   Aviation regulations
   
150.058   Building permit application
   
150.059   Permit application; electrical components
   
150.060   Warning sign; labeling
   
150.061   Liability insurance
   
150.062   Maintenance
Building Inspector
   
150.080   Power and authority
   
150.081   Right of entry
   
150.082   Time of inspection
   
150.083   Appeal from decision
   
150.084   Plans, maps, and the like; city officials; duty
Property Maintenance Code
   
150.095   Purpose
   
150.096   Scope
   
150.097   General
   
150.098   Substandard buildings
   
150.099   Violations
   
150.100   Permit required for construction
   
150.101   Fees
   
150.102   Inspection
   
150.103   Definitions
   
150.104   Location on property
   
150.105   Grading and drainage
   
150.106   Accessory structures
   
150.107   Accumulation of rubbish or garbage
   
150.108   Standards
 
   
150.999   Penalty
**** BUILDING PERMITS AND REGULATIONS ****
§ 150.001 REQUIREMENT.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
enlarge, demolish, or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the same to
be done, shall file with the City Clerk an application for a building permit.
The application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the City Clerk
for that purpose. Every such application shall set forth the legal description
of the land upon which the construction or relocation is to take place, the
nature of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the estimated cost,
the names of the owner, architect, and contractor, and such other information
as may be requested thereon. The application, plans, and specifications so
filed with the City Clerk shall be checked and examined by the City Council or
its designee, and if they are found to be in conformity with the requirements
of this chapter and all other ordinances applicable thereto, the City Clerk
shall issue the applicant a permit upon payment of a permit fee set by the
Council by resolution. Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit
application procedures contained herein and those contained in any building
code adopted by reference, the provisions contained herein shall govern.
(1992 Code, § 9-201) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.002 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within 6
months of the date thereof, or if the construction is discontinued for a period
of 6 months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a new permit
shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
(1992 Code, § 9-202) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.003 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration, or repair
of any building within the city’s jurisdiction, if the improvement is $2,500 or
more, a duplicate of the permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743) (1992 Code, § 9-203)
§ 150.004 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner, tenant, or lessee causing the construction, demolition, or moving
of any building or improvement within the city shall protect all excavations,
exposures, open basements, building materials, and debris by suitable
barricades or guards by day and by warning lights at night. The failure,
neglect, or refusal of the owner, tenant, or lessee to erect and maintain such
protections shall constitute a violation of this section, and the Building
Inspector or other city law enforcement authority may stop all work upon the
buildings and improvements until suitable protections are erected and
maintained in the required manner.
(1992 Code, § 9-105) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.005 BUILDING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction, and uses of materials and buildings
hereinafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated, and
converted, the International Building Code, published by the International Code
Council, and the International Residential Code 1 and 2 Family Dwellings,
published by the International Code Council, printed in book or pamphlet form,
as set by Neb. RS 71-6406 are now incorporated by reference in addition to all
amended editions as though printed in full herein, and are adopted by the City
Council, insofar as said codes do not conflict with the statutes of the State
of Nebraska. One copy of the Building Code is on file at the office of the City
Clerk and is available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The
provisions of the Building Code shall be controlling throughout the city and
throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 671, passed 1-19-2011; Am. Ord. 805, passed 7-19-2022)
**** MOVING OF BUILDINGS ****
§ 150.020 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move any
building or structure within the city without a written permit to do so.
Application may be made to the City Clerk and shall include the present and
future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the equipment
to be used, and such other information as the City Council may require. The
application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the County
Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the building is presently located.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall refer the application to the City Council or its
designee for approval of the proposed route over which the building is to be
moved. Upon approval, the City Clerk shall issue the permit, provided that a
good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or cash in an amount set by
motion of the City Council and conditioned upon moving the building without
doing damage to any private or city property is filed with the City Clerk prior
to the granting of any permit.
   (C)   No moving permit shall be required to move a building that is 10 feet
wide or less, and 20 feet long or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet
high or less.
   (D)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using, or operating the poles, wires, or line
shall, upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by
disconnecting the poles, wires, or line relative to the building moving
operation. All expense of the disconnection, removal, or related work shall be
paid in advance by the licensee unless the disconnection or work is furnished
on different terms as provided in the company’s franchise.
   (E)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes, or wire belonging to the city, notice in writing
of the time and route of the building moving operation shall be given to the
various officials in charge of the city utility departments, who shall proceed
in behalf of the city and at the expense of the mover to make such
disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
(1992 Code, § 9-301) Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate moving of buildings, see Neb. RS 17-142 
§ 150.021 DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector or other designated official shall inspect the premises and report to
the City Clerk as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from the
relocation and whether any city laws have been violated during the operation.
Upon a satisfactory report from the Building Inspector or other designated
official, the City Clerk shall return the corporate surety bond, cash, or check
deposited by the applicant. In the event the basement, foundation, or portion
thereof is not properly filled, covered, or in a clean and sanitary condition,
the City Council may apply the money deposited for the purpose of defraying the
expense of correcting the conditions. If the expense of correcting the
hazardous condition is greater than the amount of the deposit set by the City
Council, the City Council may recover the excess expense by civil suit or
otherwise as prescribed by law.
(1992 Code, § 9-302)
**** UNSAFE BUILDING CODE ****
§ 150.035 CONDEMNATION OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   Any building or other structure, or any part thereof which is in part or in
whole structurally unsafe, dilapidated, defective, unhealthful, insufficient,
or unsafe for the purposes for which it is used, detrimental to the community
for any just cause, or in violation of the Kimball City Code or any building
code as amended and adopted by the City of Kimball, is hereby determined to be
dangerous and shall be made safe by the owner of record of the property within
the time set forth in written notice from the City of Kimball Building
Official, Chief of Police, or his or her designee (hereinafter in this
subchapter “Building Official”). Where immediate action is deemed necessary to
protect life, health, or property, the Building Official, or his or her
designee may direct such building or other structure or portion thereof to be
vacated forthwith, closed and not used or occupied until made safe as required
by the Building Official, or his or her designee. Any buildings or other
structures, or any part thereof which is determined after inspection by the
Building Official, or his or her designee to be dangerous as defined above, are
hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair,
alteration, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal in accordance with this
code.
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.036 WRITTEN NOTICE; MAILING, CONTENTS.
   Whenever the Building Official, or his or her designee has inspected any
building or other structure, or any part thereof and determined that such
property is a dangerous building, he or she shall send a written notice to the
owner of record of the property by personal service or by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the last known address of said owner. The written
notice shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises on which the dangerous property is located.
   (B)   A brief and concise description of the conditions found to render the
property dangerous as defined by this code.
   (C)   A brief and concise description of the action required to be taken to
render the property in compliance with this code.
   (D)   A brief and concise statement advising the owner of record that if
required repair, alteration, rehabilitation, demolition or removal work is not
completed within the time specified, Building Official, or his or her designee
may order the dangerous property vacated and posted to prevent further
occupancy until the work is completed, and may request the City Attorney file
an action to abate the public nuisance and charge the costs thereof against the
real estate and the owner of record.
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.037 NOTICE TO VACATE; POSTING.
   In the event the Chief Building Official, or his or her designee directs any
building or other structure or any portion thereof to be vacated, a copy of a
notice to vacate shall be served along with the written notice set forth in §
150.036 and shall be posted at or upon each entrance to the property in
substantially the following form:
   NOTICE TO VACATE
   DO NOT ENTER- UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
   It is a misdemeanor to occupy this property or to remove or deface this
notice to vacate.
   Dated ______________________________________
   CITY OF KIMBALL, NEBRASKA,
   A Municipal Corporation
   By _________________________________________
   Building Official
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.038 MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner of record to maintain or permit any
person to occupy any building or other structure or any part thereof which is
declared a public nuisance by the Building Official at the expiration of the
time period specified in the written notice set forth in § 150.036, or to
permit any person to occupy any building or other structure or any part thereof
in violation of the notice to vacate set forth in § 150.037.
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.039 PROCEDURE FOR ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   If the owner of record of any property declared to be a public nuisance by
the Building Official, or his or her designee fails to abate said nuisance
within the time specified in the written notice set forth in § 150.036, the
City of Kimball at the written request of the Building Official, or his or her
designee directed to the City Attorney, may proceed to abate said public
nuisance and charge the costs thereof against the real estate or the owner of
record. The procedure for abatement pursuant to this section shall be as
follows:
   (A)   If the owner, occupant, or agent in charge of any lot, building, or
other premises, or the person responsible for the maintenance of a nuisance
fails to abate said nuisance within the time period identified in the notice to
abate, which time period shall not be less than 10 days, and after a notice to
abate has been mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of such person or persons, or delivered by personal service, the
City Attorney’s Office may, with the consent of the Mayor, bring legal action
to obtain abatement of the nuisance.
   (B)   In the event legal action to abate a nuisance is commenced on behalf
of the City of Kimball, the City Attorney shall request that the Court enter
such order as is appropriate to expeditiously and completely abate said
nuisance and that said order be of a continuing nature, permanently enjoining
the defendant from continuing, maintaining, renewing or restoring said nuisance
on said persons property or public property and entering a judgment against the
defendant(s) for the costs incurred by the City of Kimball in abating said
nuisance conditions.
   (C)   In the event continuation of a public nuisance might cause irreparable
harm or poses a serious threat to public health, safety or welfare or the
health, safety or welfare of residents of the property in violation, the
written notice to abate pursuant to this subchapter shall not be required as a
condition precedent to commencing a legal action to obtain abatement of the
nuisance and the City of Kimball, with the consent of the Mayor, may
immediately file an action requesting such temporary or permanent order as is
appropriate to expeditiously and permanently abate said nuisance and protect
the public health, safety or welfare or the health, safety or welfare of the
residents of the property in violation.
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.040 STANDARDS FOR REPAIR.
   The following standards shall be observed or followed in determining whether
a public nuisance shall be repaired, altered, rehabilitated, demolished or
removed:
   (A)   If the building or other structure or any part thereof can reasonably
be repaired, altered, or rehabilitated so that it will no longer exist in
violation of the Kimball City Code or Building Code as amended and adopted, it
shall be ordered repaired, altered, or rehabilitated.
   (B)   If the building or the structure or any part thereof is in such
condition that it cannot reasonably be repaired so that it will no longer exist
in violation of the Kimball City Code or Building Code as amended and adopted,
it shall be ordered demolished or removed.
   (C)   In any case where a building or other structure or any part thereof is
50% damaged, decayed or deteriorated from its original value or structure, it
shall be demolished or removed.
   (D)   In any case where a building or other structure or any part thereof is
a fire hazard existing in violation of the Kimball City Code or Building Code
as amended or adopted, or the statutes of the State of Nebraska it shall be
demolished or removed.
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
§ 150.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OVERSPEED CONTROL. A mechanism used to limit the speed of blade rotation to
one that is below the design limits of the WECS.
   SURVIVAL WIND SPEED. The maximum wind speed a WECS in automatic unattended
operation (whether or not producing power) can sustain without damage to
structural components or loss of ability to function normally.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM; WECS. A machine that converts kinetic energy
in wind into a different, usable form of energy, including a machine commonly
known as a wind turbine or windmill. Unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise, the term refers to all components of such a system, including, but
not limited to, the tower and transmission equipment. For convenience, the term
usually is abbreviated WECS.
   WIND ROTOR. The blades, and the hub to which they are attached, which are
used to capture wind for purposes of energy conversion. A WIND ROTOR is mounted
upon a pole or tower for use.
(Ord. 683, passed 5-16-2012)
§ 150.051 TOWER.
   (A)   Tower construction shall comply with all provisions of the Building
Code currently in effect in the city.
   (B)   The tower shall have either a tower-climbing apparatus commencing not
lower than 12 feet above the ground, or a locked anticlimb device installed on
the tower, or shall be completely enclosed by a locked, protective fence not
less than six feet in height.
(Ord. 683, passed 5-16-2012) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.052 GUY WIRES.
   Anchor points of guy wires for the tower shall be located upon the lot or
tract of land on which the tower is situated. Such wires shall not be located
across any aboveground electrical transmission or distribution lines, and shall
not extend into any required front or side yard building setback areas. The
point of ground attachment for guy wires shall be completely enclosed by a
continuous fence six feet in height.
(Ord. 683, passed 5-16-2012) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.053 WIND ROTOR.
   Each WECS shall be equipped with both manual and automatic controls which
will limit the rotational speed of the blade to a speed that is lower than the
design limits of the wind rotor.
(Ord. 683, passed 5-16-2012) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.054 ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS.
   All electrical components of a WECS shall comply with the requirements of
the Electrical Code currently in effect in the city.
(Ord. 683, passed 5-16-2012) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.055 NOISE.
   The noise generated by a WECS shall not exceed 65 decibels on the DBA scale,
as measured outdoors at any property line of the lot or tract of land on which
the WECS is located, or 45 decibels as measured inside any residential
structure located on or adjacent to such lot or tract of land.
(Ord. 683, passed 5-16-2012) Penalty, see §
150.999 
§ 150.056 ELECTROMAGNETIC INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   A WECS shall be filtered or shielded so as to prevent the emission of
radio-frequency energy which would cause harmful interference with radio and/or
television broadcasting or reception.
   (B)   A WECS shall not be installed in any location along the major axis of
an existing microwave communications link such that the operation of the WECS
may produce a harmful level of electromagnetic interference. If the Zoning
Administrator shall determine that a WECS is causing harmful interference, the
operator shall immediately cease operation of the system, and shall not resume
operation until the harmful interference has been removed, as determined by the
Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 683, passed 5-16-2012) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.057 AVIATION REGULATIONS.
   No WECS shall be erected, maintained or operated in violation of any
regulation of the Federal Aviation Administration.
(Ord. 683, passed 5-16-2012) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.058 BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION.
   An application for a building permit for a WECS shall contain the contact
information for the applicant/owner including the address and telephone number
and shall:
   (A)   Be accompanied by a plot plan drawn in sufficient scale and detail to
clearly show:
      (1)   The property lines and physical dimensions of the lot or tract of
land on which the WECS will be located, and location and dimensions of all
abutting streets and alleys;
      (2)   The location and total height of the WECS;
      (3)   The location of aboveground utility lines on the lot or tract of
land and, whether or not on the lot or tract of land, within a radius equal to
1½ times the total height of the WECS; and
   (4)   The location and size (including height) of buildings, structures and
trees referred to in the city Zoning Ordinance, except electrical transmission
and distribution lines, antennas, slender or open lattice towers, and open
fences;
   (B)   Be accompanied by standard drawings of the structural components of
the WECS, including the tower support structures, base and footings; such
drawings and any necessary calculations shall be certified in writing by a
licensed professional engineer licensed to practice in the state, and shall
include a certification that the system, including any structural components or
installation details which vary from the standard design or specifications,
complies with the requirements, including the windload requirements, of the
Building Code currently in effect in the city;
   (C)   Cite specific wind-speed data, including monthly mean wind speeds for
a period of no less than six months;
   (D)   For the area in which is situated the lot or tract of land, include
WECS design data, including manufacturer's specification and installation and
operation instructions;
   (E)   Be accompanied by a statement by a state-licensed professional
engineer certifying that the rotor and overspeed controls have been designed
and fabricated for the proposed use according to good engineering practices,
and the structural compatibility of available towers with available rotors; and
   (F)   Be accompanied by documentation by the WECS manufacturer that the WECS
model has operated safely in atmospheric conditions for a period of not less
than three months and has provided energy equivalent to not less than 25% of
its predicted annual energy output under a 12 mph annual wind regime.
(Ord. 683, passed 5-16-2012)
§ 150.059 PERMIT APPLICATION; ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS.
   The drawing of the electrical components which accompanies the application
shall be a line drawing in sufficient detail to enable the Zoning Administrator
to determine that the manner of installation will comply with the requirements
of the National Electric Code currently in effect in the city, and there shall
be attached to the drawing a statement of an electrician licensed under the
laws of the state that the electrical system complies with the National
Electrical Code, and conforms to good electrical practices. If electrical
components proposed to be installed vary from the standard design or
specifications, the application shall be accompanied, also, by a certificate of
a licensed professional engineer that the modified design or specifications
comply with such National Electrical Code and conforms to good engineering
practices.
(Ord. 683, passed 5-16-2012)
§ 150.060 WARNING SIGN; LABELING.
   (A)   Not less than one sign warning of electrical shock or high voltage
shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous location at the base of the
tower.
   (B)   The following information shall be posted on a label or labels affixed
to the generator or alternator of the WECS:
      (1)   The maximum power output of the system and the wind speed at which
it is achieved;
      (2)   Nominal voltage(s) and maximum current; and
      (3)   The manufacturer’s name and address, and the serial number and
model number.
   (C)   All of the information required under this section, together with a
statement of the maximum survival wind speed and of emergency and normal
shutdown procedures, shall also be provided on a label or labels posted and
easily read at ground level or located at the WECS control panel.
(Ord. 683, passed 5-16-2012) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.061 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The owner of the lot or tract of land or, if the WECS is to be erected,
maintained or operated by some other person, such other person shall maintain
liability insurance covering loss or damage to persons and property by the WECS
in a minimum amount of $1,000,000 per event and $2,000,000 aggregate coverage,
and shall maintain on file in the office of the City Clerk a certificate of the
insurer showing such coverage.
(Ord. 683, passed 5-16-2012) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.062 MAINTENANCE.
   A WECS shall be regularly and properly maintained in good operating
condition.
(Ord. 683, passed 5-16-2012) Penalty, see §
150.999
**** BUILDING INSPECTOR ****
§ 150.080 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector shall be the city official who shall have the duty of
enforcing all city building and housing regulations, if any. He or she shall
inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built, or moved in the city as often
as necessary to ensure compliance with all city ordinances. He or she shall
have the power and authority to order, at the direction of the City Council,
all work stopped on any construction, alteration, or relocation which violates
any provisions prescribed in any city building and housing regulations. He or
she shall, at the direction of the City Council, issue permission to continue
any construction, alteration, or relocation when the City Council is satisfied
that no provision will be violated. If the stop order is an oral one, it shall
be followed by a written stop order within 1 hour. This written order may be
served by any city police officer. In the event that the city has building and
housing regulations and the Mayor fails to appoint a Building Inspector, the
Chief of Police shall be the Building Inspector ex officio.
(1992 Code, § 9-101)
§ 150.081 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair, or relocation is taking place, for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
(1992 Code, § 9-102) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.082 TIME OF INSPECTION.
   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or his or
her agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or structure
and shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall
notify the permit holder or his or her agent that the work fails to comply with
the requirements of the city code: foundation inspection shall be made after
trenches are excavated and the necessary forms erected; frame inspection shall
be made after the roof, framing, fire-blocking, and backing is in place and all
pipes, chimneys, and vents are complete; and final inspection shall be made
after the building is completed and ready for occupancy. It shall be unlawful
for any person to do work or cause work to be done beyond the point indicated
in each successive inspection without the written approval of the Building
Inspector.
(1992 Code, § 9-103) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.083 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of any city
building or housing regulation has been wrongly interpreted by the Building
Inspector, that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the Building
Inspector is too short, or that conditions peculiar to a particular building
make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by
the regulation and by the Building Inspector, the owner, his or her agent, or
the occupant may file a notice of appeal within 10 days after the decision or
order of the Building Inspector has been made. The City Council shall hear all
appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the
decision or order of the Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons
why the variance should be made. A variance shall be granted only where it is
evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured and may include
conditions not generally specified by the building or housing regulation to
achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted shall be sent to both the
Building Inspector and the applicant.
(1992 Code, § 9-104)
§ 150.084 PLANS, MAPS, AND THE LIKE; CITY OFFICIALS; DUTY.
   A city official charged with the duty or responsibility of accepting or
approving plans, specifications, geological maps, and reports shall not accept
or approve plans, specifications, geological maps, or reports which have not
been prepared in accordance with the Geologists Regulation Act.
(Neb. RS 81-3538) (Ord. 568, passed 11-16-1999)
**** PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ****
§ 150.095 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards to safeguard life
or limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the
use of occupancy, location and maintenance of all residential and commercial
building and structures within this jurisdiction. These regulations shall be
known as the “Property Maintenance Code,” may be cited as such, and will be
referred to throughout this subchapter as “this code.”
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.096 SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this code shall apply to all buildings or portions
thereof. Such occupancies in existing buildings may be continued as provided in
the Building Code, except such structures as are found to be substandard as
defined in this code.
   (B)   Where any building or portion thereof is used or intended to be used
as a combination apartment house-hotel, the provisions of this code shall apply
to the separate portions as if they were separate buildings.
   (C)   Every rooming house or lodging house shall comply with all the
requirements of this code for dwelling.
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.097 GENERAL.
   (A)   Authority. The Building Official is hereby authorized and directed to
enforce all of the provisions of this code. For such purposes, he or she shall
have the powers of a law enforcement officer. He or she is empowered to adopt
and enforce rules and regulations to clarify and expand the provisions of this
code in conformity with the spirit and intent of its stated purpose.
   (B)   Right of entry. Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce
any of the provisions of this code, or whenever the Building Official or his or
her authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists
in any building or upon any premises any condition or code violation which
makes such building or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Building
Official or his or her authorized representative may enter such building or
premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty
imposed upon the Building Official by this code, provided that if such building
or premises be occupied, he or she shall first present proper credentials and
request entry; and if such building or premises be unoccupied, he or she shall
first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having
charge or control of the building or premises and request entry. If such entry
is refused, the Building Official or his or her authorized representative shall
have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
   (C)   Responsibilities defined.
      (1)   Every owner remains liable for violation of duties imposed upon him
or her by this code even though an obligation is also imposed on the occupants
of his or her building, and even though the owner has, by agreement, imposed on
the occupant the duty of furnishing required equipment or of complying with
this code.
      (2)   All buildings and structures and all parts thereof shall be
maintained in a safe and sanitary condition. The owner or his or her designated
agent shall be responsible for such maintenance. To determine compliance with
this subchapter, the building may be reinspected.
      (3)   Every owner, or his agent, in addition to being responsible for
maintaining his or her building in a sound structural condition, shall be
responsible for keeping that part of the building or premises which he or she
occupies or controls in a clean, sanitary and safe condition, including the
shared or public areas in a building containing 2 or more dwelling units. Every
owner, or his or her agent, shall be responsible for maintaining his or her
building or premises free of all nuisances, litter, and conditions which are
unsafe or hazardous to health.
      (4)   Every owner shall, where required by this code, the Building
Official, the health ordinance, or the Health Officer, furnish and maintain
such approved sanitary facilities as required, and shall furnish and maintain
approved devices, equipment or facilities for the prevention of insect and
rodent infestation, and where infestation has taken place, shall be responsible
for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests when such
extermination is not specifically made the responsibility of the occupant by
law or ruling.
      (5)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit, in addition to being responsible
for keeping in a clean, sanitary and safe condition that part of the dwelling
or dwelling unit or premises which he or she occupies and controls, shall
dispose of all his or her rubbish, garbage and other organic waste in a manner
required by the health ordinance and approved by the Health Officer.
      (6)   Every occupant shall, where required by this code, the Building
Official, the health ordinance, or the Health Officer, furnish and maintain
approved devices, equipment or facilities necessary to keep his or her premises
safe and sanitary.
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.098 SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS.
   Any buildings or portions thereof which are determined to be substandard as
defined in this code are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be
abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal in accordance with the
procedure specified in §§
150.035 et seq. of the Kimball City Code.
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.099 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure or cause or permit the
same to be done in violation of this code.
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.100 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   No building or structure regulated by this code shall be erected,
constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, moved, improved, removed, converted
or demolished unless a separate permit for each building or structure has first
been obtained from the Building Official in the manner and according to the
applicable conditions prescribed in the Building Code.
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.101 FEES.
   Whenever a building permit is required by the Building Code or the City of
Kimball, the appropriate fees shall be paid to the City of Kimball as specified
for building permits in the City of Kimball fee schedule.
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.102 INSPECTION.
   All buildings or structures within the scope of this code and all
construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspection by the Building Official in accordance with and in the manner
provided by this code and the Building Code.
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.103 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, certain terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall be construed as specified in either this section or as
specified in the Building Code. Where terms are not defined, they shall have
their ordinary accepted meanings within the context with which they are used.
   BUILDING CODE. The Building Code adopted by the City of Kimball, including
any version of the International Building Code as may be adopted by the City of
Kimball and from time to time amended.
   EFFICIENCY DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling unit containing only 1 habitable room
and meeting the requirements of the Building Code exception.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Building Official, Chief of Police, or his or her
designee.
   HOT WATER. Hot water supplied to plumbing fixtures at a temperature of not
less than 110° F.
   NUISANCE. The following shall be defined as nuisances:
      (1)   Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity jurisprudence.
      (2)   Any attractive nuisance which may prove detrimental to children
whether in a building, or the premises of a building, or upon an unoccupied
lot. This includes any abandoned wells, shafts, basements or excavations;
abandoned refrigerators and motor vehicles; or any structurally unsound fences
or structures; or any lumber, trash, fences, debris or vegetation which may
prove a hazard for inquisitive minors; litter which includes (i) trash,
rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes; (ii) wood, plaster, cement,
brick, or stone building rubble; (iii) grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation;
(iv) offal and dead animals; and (v) any machine or machines, vehicle or
vehicles, or parts of a machine or vehicle which have lost their identity,
character, utility, or serviceability as such through deterioration,
dismantling, or the ravages of time, are inoperative or unable to perform their
intended functions, or are cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as
waste, wreckage, or junk.
      (3)   Whatever is dangerous to human life or is detrimental to health, as
determined by the Health Officer.
      (4)   Overcrowding a room with occupants.
      (5)   Insufficient ventilation or illumination.
      (6)   Inadequate or unsanitary sewage or plumbing facilities.
      (7)   Uncleanliness, as determined by the Health Officer.
      (8)   Whatever renders air, food or drink unwholesome or detrimental to
the health of human beings, as determined by the Health Officer.
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.104 LOCATION ON PROPERTY.
   All buildings shall be located with respect to property lines and to other
buildings on the same property as required by the Building Code.
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.105 GRADING AND DRAINAGE.
   All premises shall be graded and maintained to prevent the accumulation of
stagnant water thereon, or within any structure located thereon.
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.106 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   All accessory structures, including detached garages, fences and walls,
shall be maintained structurally sound and in good repair.
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.107 ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH OR GARBAGE.
   The interior of every structure shall be free from any accumulation of
litter, which for purposes of this subchapter shall be defined as: (i) trash,
rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes; (ii) wood, plaster, cement,
brick, or stone building rubble; (iii) grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation;
(iv) offal and dead animals; and (v) any machine or machines, vehicle or
vehicles, or parts of a machine or vehicle which have lost their identity,
character, utility, or serviceability as such through deterioration,
dismantling, or the ravages of time, are inoperative or unable to perform their
intended functions, or are cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as
waste, wreckage, or junk.
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.108 STANDARDS.
   (A)   General. Any building or portion thereof, including any dwelling unit,
guest room, or suite of rooms, or the premises on which the same is located, in
which there exists any of the following listed conditions to an extent that
endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of the public,
or the occupants thereof, shall be deemed and hereby is, declared to be a
substandard building. The extent of danger of life, limb, health, property,
safety, or welfare of the public or the occupants thereof shall be determined
by the Chief Building Official and the Health and Sanitation Officer, and upon
request, the Fire Chief.
   (B)   Inadequate sanitation. Inadequate sanitation shall include but not be
limited to the following:
      (1)   Lack of, or improper water closet, lavatory bathtub or shower in a
dwelling unit or lodging house.
      (2)   Lack of, or improper water closets, lavatories and bathtubs or
showers per number of guests in a hotel.
      (3)   Lack of, or improper kitchen sink in a dwelling unit.
      (4)   Lack of hot and cold running water to plumbing fixtures in a hotel.
      (5)   Lack of hot and cold running water to plumbing fixtures in a
dwelling unit or lodging house.
      (6)   Lack of adequate heating facilities.
      (7)   Lack of, or improper operation of required ventilating equipment.
      (8)   Lack of minimum amounts of natural light and ventilation required
by this code.
      (9)   Room and space dimensions less than required by this code.
      (10)   Lack of required electrical lighting.
      (11)   Dampness of habitable rooms.
      (12)   Infestation of insects, vermin or rodents as determined by the
Health Officer.
      (13)   General dilapidation or improper maintenance.
      (14)   Lack of connection to required sewage disposal system.
      (15)   Lack of adequate garbage and rubbish storage and removal
facilities as determined by the Health Officer.
   (C)   Structural hazards. Structural hazards shall include but not be
limited to the following:
      (1)   Deteriorated or inadequate foundation.
      (2)   Defective or deteriorated flooring or floor supports.
      (3)   Flooring or floor supports of insufficient size to carry imposed
loads with safety.
      (4)   Members of walls, partitions or other vertical supports that split,
lean, list or buckle due to defective material or deterioration.
      (5)   Members of walls, partitions or other vertical supports that are of
insufficient size to carry imposed loads with safety.
      (6)   Members of ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports or other
horizontal members with sag, split or buckle due to defective material or
deterioration.
      (7)   Members of ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports, or other
horizontal members that are of insufficient size to carry imposed loads with
safety.
      (8)   Fireplaces or chimneys which list, bulge or settle, due to
defective material or deterioration.
      (9)   Fireplaces or chimneys which are of insufficient size or strength
to carry imposed loads with safety.
   (D)   Nuisance. Any nuisance as defined in this code.
   (E)   Hazardous electrical wiring. Electrical wiring which was installed in
violation of code requirements in effect at the time of installation or
electrical wiring not installed in accordance with generally accepted
construction practices in areas where no codes were in effect or which has not
been maintained in good condition or which is not being used in a safe manner
shall be considered substandard.
   (F)   Hazardous plumbing. Plumbing which was installed in violation of code
requirements in effect at the time of installation or plumbing not installed in
accordance with generally accepted construction practices in areas where no
codes were in effect or which has not been maintained in good condition or
which is not free of cross-connections or siphonage between fixtures shall be
considered substandard.
   (G)   Hazardous mechanical equipment. Mechanical equipment which was
installed in violation of code requirements in effect at the time of
installation or mechanical equipment not installed in accordance with generally
accepted construction practices in areas where no codes were in effect or which
has not been maintained in good and safe condition shall be considered
substandard.
   (H)   Faulty weather protection. Which shall include but not be limited to
the following:
      (1)   Deteriorated, crumbling or loose plaster.
      (2)   Deteriorated or ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roof,
foundations or floors, including broken windows or doors.
      (3)   Defective or lack of weather protection for exterior wall
coverings, including lack of paint, or weathering due to lack of paint or other
approved protective covering.
      (4)   Broken, rotten, split or buckled exterior wall coverings or roof
coverings.
   (I)   Fire hazard. Any building or portion thereof, device, apparatus,
equipment, combustible waste or vegetation which, in the opinion of the Chief
of the Fire Department or his or her deputy, is in such a condition as to cause
a fire or explosion or provide a ready fuel to augment the spread and intensity
of fire or explosion arising from any cause.
   (J)   Faulty materials of construction. All materials of construction except
those which are specifically allowed or approved by this code and the Building
Code, and which have been adequately maintained in good and safe condition.
   (K)   Hazardous or unsanitary premises. Those premises on which an
accumulation of litter, weeds, vegetation, junk, dead organic matter, debris,
garbage, offal, rat harborages, stagnant water, combustible materials and
similar materials or conditions constitute fire, health or safety hazards.
   (L)   Inadequate exits.
      (1)   Except for those buildings or portions thereof which have been
provided with adequate exit facilities conforming to the provisions of this
code, buildings or portions thereof whose exit facilities were installed in
violation of code requirements in effect at the time of their construction or
whose exit facilities have not been increased in number or width in relation to
any increase in occupant load due to alterations, additions or change in use or
occupancy subsequent to the time of construction shall be considered
substandard.
      (2)   Notwithstanding compliance with code requirements in effect at the
time of their construction, buildings or portions thereof shall be considered
substandard when the Building Official finds that an unsafe condition exists
through an improper location of exits, a lack of an adequate number or width of
exits, or where other conditions exist which are dangerous to human life.
   (M)   Inadequate fire-protection or fire-fighting equipment. All buildings
or portions thereof which are not provided with the fire-resistive construction
or fire-extinguishing systems or equipment required by this code, except those
buildings or portions thereof which conformed with all applicable laws at the
time of their construction and whose fire-resistive integrity and fire-
extinguishing systems or equipment have been adequately maintained and improved
in relation to any increase in occupant load, alteration or addition, or any
change in occupancy.
   (N)   Improper occupancy. All buildings or portions thereof occupied for
living, sleeping, cooking or dining purposes which were not designed or
intended to be used for such occupancies.
(Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any section of this chapter for which no other
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§ 150.030 through
150.040 shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall
be subject to the penalty and provisions set forth in this chapter, and shall
further be subject to the fine penalty set forth in City of Kimball Code §
10.99(A) and actions to enjoin or abate the same as described in City of
Kimball Code §
10.99(B).
   (C)   Any person who violates §§
150.050 through
150.062, including the standard codes adopted by reference, or fails to comply
with any lawful permit, order or notice made or given thereunder, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction, shall be fined not more
than $100 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply. Each day that a violation
or noncompliance shall continue after notification by the Zoning Administrator
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
150.095 through
150.108 shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall
be subject to the penalty and provisions set forth in this chapter, and shall
further be subject to the fine penalty set forth in City of Kimball Code §
10.99(A) and actions to enjoin or abate the same as described in City of
Kimball Code §
10.99(B).
(Ord. 683, passed 5-16-2012; Am. Ord. 830, passed 8-13-2024)
CHAPTER 151: TRAILERS AND TRAILER COURTS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Definitions
Permits
   
151.015   Permit required
   
151.016   Permit application; renewal
   
151.017   Plans and specifications
   
151.018   Permit fees
Requirements and Restrictions
   
151.030   Location; drainage
   
151.031   General space requirements
   
151.032   Access roads
   
151.033   Trailer location
   
151.034   Trailer occupancy unlawful unless on space
   
151.035   Motor vehicle parking
   
151.036   Stands and skirting
   
151.037   Restrictions on animals and pets
   
151.038   Register of occupants
   
151.039   Supervision and maintenance
Services; Utilities; Health and Safety
   
151.050   Water supply
   
151.051   Independent water supply
   
151.052   Water reservoirs
   
151.053   Plumbing
   
151.054   Sewer connection
   
151.055   Sewer lines
   
151.056   Sewage disposal
   
151.057   Refuse disposal
   
151.058   Refuse storage
   
151.059   Refuse removal
   
151.060   Fire protection
Mobile Homes Outside Trailer Courts; Permits
   
151.075   Application for permit
   
151.076   Application fee
   
151.077   Notice of hearing
   
151.078   Lot size
   
151.079   Drawing of tract
   
151.080   Applicable regulatory codes
   
151.081   Minimum living space
   
151.082   Mobile home stand; anchors and tie-downs
   
151.083   Maintenance
   
151.084   Permit revocation
   
151.085   Special circumstances
   
151.086   Additions
   
151.087   Permit nontransferable
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.100   Inspections required
   
151.101   Inspection of records
   
151.102   Duty of owners and occupants; inspector access
   
151.103   Duty of occupants; owner access
   
151.104   Notice of violation
   
151.105   Emergencies
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 151.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HEALTH OFFICER. Any member of the Board of Health or duly authorized agent
of the City Council.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure or building suitable for permanent (more than 30
days) living quarters built upon or having a frame or chassis to which wheels
may be attached by which it may be moved upon a highway whether or not the
structure actually has, at any given time, such wheels attached, or is jacked
up or skirted up, more than 8 feet wide and 32 feet in length, and designed or
used  for residential occupancy with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle, without motive power, designated for living quarters
and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and suitable for recreational, vacation,
or travel purposes and which is not more than 8 feet in width nor more than 32
feet in length including hitch; provided, the length shall not apply if the
gross weight does not exceed 4,500 pounds.
   TRAILER COURT or TRAILER CAMP. Any plot of ground approved by the city upon
which 2 or more trailers occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located
and which has received a special permit for its location from the City Council.
   TRAILER SPACE. A plot of ground within a trailer court designated for the
accommodation of 1 trailer and reserved for exclusive use of its occupants.
(1992 Code, § 10-501)
**** PERMITS ****
§ 151.015 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain, or operate
any trailer court within the limits of the city unless he or she holds a valid
permit issued by the City Clerk in the name of that person for the specific
trailer court. Applications for permits shall be made to the City Clerk, who
shall issue a permit upon compliance by the applicant with provisions of this
chapter, as evidenced by a certificate of compliance, which certificate shall
show compliance with applicable legal requirements. No permit shall be
transferable. Every person holding a trailer court permit shall give notice in
writing to the City Clerk within 72 hours after having sold, transferred, given
away, or otherwise disposed of any interest in or control of any trailer court.
This notice shall include the name and address of the person succeeding to the
ownership or control of the trailer court.
   (B)   Presently licensed trailer courts as of the effective date of this
chapter may continue their operation; provided, they meet the court development
standards herein provided, and further, that they fully comply with the trailer
stand requirements of this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 10-502) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.016 PERMIT APPLICATION; RENEWAL.
   (A)   Application for original trailer court permits shall be in writing and
verified. The application shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The interest of the applicant in the trailer court and the
location;
      (3)   The legal description of the trailer court; and
      (4)   A complete plan and supplemental specifications (in triplicate) of
the trailer court showing compliance with all applicable provisions of the city
ordinances.
   (B)   An application for renewal of a permit shall be required and the
renewal issued by the City Clerk before any changes are made in the trailer
court which deviate from the plans and specifications as approved in the
original permit or the latest renewal thereof. Applications for renewals of
permits shall be in writing and verified by the holder of the permit and shall
set out any proposed changes in the trailer court.
(1992 Code, § 10-503) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.017 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The plans and specifications of the trailer court shall show:
   (A)   The area, dimensions, and location of the tract of land;
   (B)   The number, location, dimensions, and size of all trailer spaces;
   (C)   The location and widths of roadways and walkways;
   (D)   The location of service buildings and any other proposed structures as
required;
   (E)   The location and construction details of water and sewer lines and
service outlets;
   (F)   Source of water service, if a public supply; construction and location
details if a private supply. An adequate supply of sure drinking water must be
available;
   (G)   Type of sewage disposal, including construction and location details,
if a private system;
   (H)   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the trailer court; and
   (I)   All plans and detail drawings drawn to scale.
(1992 Code, § 10-504) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.018 PERMIT FEES.
   When other requirements for approval of an original application for a permit
or a renewal thereof, as described above, have been satisfied, the applicant
shall pay to the City Treasurer a permit fee set by resolution of the City
Council and placed on file in the office of the City Clerk for public
inspection during normal office hours.
(1992 Code, § 10-505)
**** REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS ****
§ 151.030 LOCATION; DRAINAGE.
   Trailer courts shall be located on a well-drained site, free from marshes,
swamps, or other potential breeding places for insects or rodents, and so that
its drainage will not endanger any water supply.
(1992 Code, § 10-512) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.031 GENERAL SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to trailer spaces, trailer courts shall accommodate access
roads, parking for motor vehicles, and space for any other facility required by
this chapter and any zoning regulation that may be adopted.
(1992 Code, § 10-513) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.032 ACCESS ROADS.
   Access roads shall be provided to each trailer space and shall connect with
a street or highway and shall have a minimum unobstructed width of 20 feet and
shall permit Fire Department apparatus to approach within 200 feet of any part
of any trailer. In all trailer courts constructed after the effective date of
this chapter, access roads shall also provide for continuous forward movement
of using vehicles.
(1992 Code, § 10-514) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.033 TRAILER LOCATION.
   All trailer units shall be positioned on a trailer space in compliance with
the requirements of the special permit provisions granted by the City Council
or in accordance with the zoning requirements at the time of the establishment
of the trailer court as follows: in trailer courts constructed after the
adoption of this code, a distance of at least 25 feet shall be maintained
between trailers and trailers or trailers and buildings in all horizontal
directions unless specifically adjusted by the City Council upon specific
request due to special circumstances as provided in the Zoning Ordinance.
(1992 Code, § 10-515) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.034 TRAILER OCCUPANCY UNLAWFUL UNLESS ON SPACE.
   It shall be unlawful to allow any trailer to be occupied in a trailer court
unless the trailer is situated on a trailer space.
(1992 Code, § 10-516) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.035 MOTOR VEHICLE PARKING.
   Parking space for motor vehicles shall be provided and the parking area
shall be clearly defined. Motor vehicle parking shall be provided on the basis
of 1 stall, 9 feet wide by 20 feet long, for each trailer space.
(1992 Code, § 10-517) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.036 STANDS AND SKIRTING.
   (A)   The area of the trailer stand shall be improved to provide an adequate
and approved foundation for the placement of the trailer, thereby positioning
the superstructure against uplift, sliding, rotation, or overbearing. The
trailer stand shall be on basically noncombustible materials and shall not
shift or settle unevenly under the weight of the trailer due to frost action,
inadequate drainage, vibration, or other forces acting upon the superstructure.
A trailer stand may be provided by means of a solid concrete foot or block 16
inches by 16 inches by 4 inches minimum placed on solid uniform soil upon which
are placed and centered standard concrete blocks on top of another with cells
placed vertically. A solid 4-inch concrete cap covering the concrete blocks
shall be provided as the bearing area to be positioned directly beneath the
steel frame of the trailer. If blocking shall be provided upon which shall be
placed a wooden spacer and wooden shims upon the full length of the trailer
unit, they shall be placed not more than 10 feet apart and not more than 5 feet
from the ends of the unit.
   (B)   The skirting of all trailers is required. The skirting shall not
attach a trailer permanently to the ground, but shall be sufficient to
withstand wind blow requirements and shall not provide a harborage for junk or
rodents nor create a fire hazard. The skirting shall be provided with removable
or hinged access panels sufficient to provide easy access to all utility
connection points of the trailer and its subsequent connection with the utility
risers if they are located within the skirted area.
(1992 Code, § 10-529) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.037 RESTRICTIONS ON ANIMALS AND PETS.
   No owner or person in charge of a dog, cat, or other pet animal shall permit
it to run at large, or to commit any nuisance within the limits of any trailer
court.
(1992 Code, § 10-530) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.038 REGISTER OF OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Trailer court owners or operators shall maintain a register which
shall be available to any authorized person inspecting the court, and shall be
preserved for a period of not less than 1 year.
   (B)   The register shall indicate:
      (1)   The name and addresses of all trailer occupants stopping in the
court;
      (2)   The make, model, and license number of the motor vehicle and
trailer;
      (3)   The state, territory, or county issuing the trailer license;
      (4)   The dates of arrival and departure of each trailer; and
      (5)   Whether or not each trailer is a dependent or independent trailer.
(1992 Code, § 10-531) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.039 SUPERVISION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The person to whom a permit for a trailer court is issued shall provide
adequate personnel to maintain the court, and its facilities and equipment, in
good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition at all times.
(1992 Code, § 10-532) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** SERVICES; UTILITIES; HEALTH AND SAFETY ****
§ 151.050 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   An accessible, adequate, safe, and potable water supply shall be
provided in each trailer court, capable of furnishing a minimum of 150 gallons
per day per trailer space. An independent water supply to serve a trailer court
shall be developed only after express approval has been granted by the Health
Officer. Where a public supply of water of such quality is available,
connection shall be made thereto and that supply be used exclusively.
   (B)   The water system of a trailer court shall be connected and distributed
by pipes to all buildings and spaces.
   (C)   Water piping shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with
city ordinances. The water system shall not be connected with non-potable water
or water supplies which have not been approved by the Health Officer, and shall
be protected against backflow or backsiphonage.
   (D)   Individual water service connections shall be constructed so that they
will not be damaged by parking trailers. The trailer court water system shall
be adequate to provide at least 20 pounds per square inch of pressure at all
trailer connections.
(1992 Code, § 10-518) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.051 INDEPENDENT WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Where an independent or private water system is used to serve a
trailer court with water obtained from wells, the well shall have been approved
by the Health Officer, and shall have been drilled or driven. Springs or other
sources of supply shall not be used unless approved by the Health Officer.
   (B)   Every well which serves a trailer court shall be located and
constructed in such a manner that neither underground nor surface contamination
will reach the water supply from any source. A minimum distance of 150 feet
shall be maintained between the water supply and any cesspool. A minimum
distance of 100 feet shall be maintained between the water supply and any other
possible source of contamination, except that sewers or pipes through which
sewage may back up shall be located at least 50 feet from any well or water
suction pipe line. Where such sewers or pipes are specifically constructed to
provide adequate safeguards, and when specifically authorized by the Health
Officer, those sewers or pipes through which sewage may back up may be closer
than 50 feet, but not less than 30 feet, from a well.
   (C)   No well casings, pumps, pumping machinery, or suction pipes which
serve a trailer court shall be located in any pit, room, or space extending
below ground level, nor in any room or space above ground which is walled in or
otherwise enclosed, unless those rooms, whether above or below ground, have
free drainage by gravity to the surface of the ground, and the floor of rooms
above ground shall be at least 6 inches above grade; the floors shall be
watertight, and sloped from the pump pedestal to the drain. The pedestal shall
be not less than 12 inches above the floor.
(1992 Code, § 10-519) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.052 WATER RESERVOIRS.
   (A)   Water reservoirs which serve a trailer court shall be watertight, and
constructed of impervious material, all overflows and vents of the reservoirs
shall be effectively screened. Open reservoirs are prohibited. Manholes of the
reservoirs shall be constructed with overlapping covers, so as to prevent
contamination. Overflow pipes from a reservoir shall not connect to any pipe in
which sewage or polluted water may back up.
   (B)   Underground stop- and waste-cocks shall not be installed on any
connection.
(1992 Code, § 10-520) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.053 PLUMBING.
   Plumbing in trailer courts shall comply with the city plumbing ordinances
and regulations.
(1992 Code, § 10-521) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.054 SEWER CONNECTION.
   Each independent trailer space shall be provided with at least a 3-inch
sewer connection. The sewer connection shall be provided with suitable fittings
as adaptors so that a watertight connection can be made between a trailer drain
and the sewer connection. The individual trailer connections shall be
constructed so that they can be closed when not linked to a trailer and shall
be capped so as to prevent escape odors.
(1992 Code, § 10-522) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.055 SEWER LINES.
   Sewer lines shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Health Officer and in accordance with the recommendations of the Health
Officer. All sewer lines shall be adequately vented, and shall be laid with
sufficient earth to prevent breakage from traffic.
(1992 Code, § 10-523) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.056 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any wastewater from sinks, baths, showers, or
other plumbing fixtures in any trailer court to be deposited upon the surface
of the ground, and all such fixtures, when in use, must be connected to the
city sewer system.
(1992 Code, § 10-524) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.057 REFUSE DISPOSAL.
   Storage, collection, and disposal of refuse in a trailer court shall be
managed so as not to create health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding
areas, accident or fire hazards, or air pollution.
(1992 Code, § 10-525) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.058 REFUSE STORAGE.
   Refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, watertight, rodent-proof containers,
which shall be located not more than 150 feet from any trailer. Containers
shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to store properly all
refuse, and otherwise in conformity with
Chapter 54, the garbage and refuse ordinance.
(1992 Code, § 10-526) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.059 REFUSE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Refuse shall be removed from the trailer court at least once weekly.
Where suitable refuse removal service is not available from municipal or
private agencies, the trailer court operator shall provide this service. Refuse
shall be removed and transported as required by city ordinance.
   (B)   Where municipal or private disposal service is not available, the
trailer court operator shall dispose of the refuse in conformity with the city
ordinances.
   (C)   Refuse and garbage incineration on the trailer court premises is
prohibited, unless specifically approved by the Health Officer. This approval
shall be based on a review of the plans and specifications for the incinerators
and approval of the site as well as the type of material placed in the
incinerator.
(1992 Code, § 10-527) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.060 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Trailer courts shall be subject to the Fire Prevention Code of the
city.
   (B)   Trailer courts shall be kept free from litter, rubbish, dry brush, and
other flammable materials.
   (C)   Portable fire extinguishers of a type approved by the Chief of the
Fire Department shall be kept in service buildings and at other locations
designated by the Chief, and shall be maintained in good operating condition.
Appropriate measures shall be taken to prevent freezing of fire equipment.
   (D)   Where a public water system with a water main of 6 inches or larger is
available to the trailer court, standard fire hydrants shall be located within
1,000 feet of each trailer court service building.
   (E)   Where the water supply system does not provide at least a 6-inch water
main, a 2-inch frost- protected water riser within 300 feet of each trailer or
service building shall be provided in trailer courts.
   (F)   The person to whom the trailer court permit is issued shall be
responsible for informing all tenants about means for summoning fire apparatus,
the Police Department, and trailer court employees, and he or she shall
conspicuously post a list of safety rules and regulations, the form of which is
found in Appendix A of the National Fire Protection Association Pamphlet 501A,
as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended.
(1992 Code, § 10-528) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** MOBILE HOMES OUTSIDE TRAILER COURTS; PERMITS ****
§ 151.075 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain, or place any
trailer or mobile home outside of a trailer court unless a mobile home permit
is current authorizing the construction, maintenance, or location of that
trailer or mobile home on property outside of a trailer court. Application for
a mobile home permit shall be made by the owner, occupant, or occupants of the
trailer or mobile home desiring to locate on property outside of a trailer
court, which application shall be filed with the City Clerk. The application
shall give the name of the applicant, the applicant’s current address and phone
number, the location where the trailer or mobile home is to be constructed,
maintained, or located, the name of the owner or lessee of the premises on
which the trailer or mobile home is to be
located, what water and sewer facilities are available, and how applicants will
dispose of garbage, sewage, and refuse. A photograph of the trailer or mobile
home taken not more than 30 days prior to the filing of the application shall
accompany the application. The City Clerk shall, upon the filing of the
application, place the same upon the agenda of the first City Council meeting
following the completion of the notice requirements as set forth herein. The
City Clerk shall not issue a permit for construction, maintenance, or location
of a trailer or mobile home until the City Council approves that application.
(1992 Code, § 10-533) (Am. Ord. 575, passed 2-22-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.076 APPLICATION FEE.
   At the time of filing the application, the applicant for a mobile home
permit shall pay a non- refundable filing fee of $50.
(Ord. 575, passed 2-22-2000)
§ 151.077 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   The applicant shall post a notice in a conspicuous place on the property for
which a mobile home permit application is made. The notice shall be not less
than 18 inches in height and 24 inches in width with a white or yellow
background and black letters not less than 1.5 inches in height. The posted
notice shall be so placed upon the premises that it is easily visible from the
street nearest the same and shall be so posted at least 10 days prior to the
hearing. It shall be unlawful for anyone to remove, mutilate, destroy, or
change this posted notice prior to the hearing. The notice shall state that an
application for mobile home permit has been made for the property and set for
the time and place of the hearing on the application.
(Ord. 575, passed 2-22-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.078 LOT SIZE.
   No application shall be approved by the City Council unless 5,000 square
feet of space shall be available for the trailer or mobile home. If more than 1
trailer or mobile home is to be located on the property, 5,000 square feet of
space shall be available for each of those trailers or mobile homes.
(Ord. 575, passed 2-22-2000)
§ 151.079 DRAWING OF TRACT.
   The applicant shall file with the application a drawing showing:
   (A)   The area, dimensions, and location of the tract of land upon which the
trailer or mobile home is to be constructed, maintained, or located;
   (B)   The location and widths of driveways and walkways;
   (C)   The location of any other proposed or existing structures on the
property;
   (D)   The location and construction details of water, gas, and sewer lines
and electrical service lines; and
   (E)   The location of the proposed trailer or mobile home and distances to
other structures and property lines.
(Ord. 575, passed 2-22-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.080 APPLICABLE REGULATORY CODES.
   The City Council shall not approve any application for a mobile home permit
unless the trailer or mobile home meets the standards of the Uniform Building
Code; any other applicable codes and ordinances; meets the National Electrical
Code; and meets the HUD Code for Mobile Homes.
(Ord. 575, passed 2-22-2000)
§ 151.081 MINIMUM LIVING SPACE.
   The City Council shall not approve the application for a mobile home permit
unless the trailer or mobile home to be constructed, maintained, or located
contains a minimum area of 1,000 square feet of living space, has a pitched
composition roof of not less than 3 inches rise per 12 inches of run, and shall
have an exterior siding composed of wood, vinyl, or steel.
(Ord. 575, passed 2-22-2000)
§ 151.082 MOBILE HOME STAND; ANCHORS AND TIE-DOWNS.
   The mobile home stand shall be provided with anchors and tie-downs, such as
cast in place concrete foundations or runways, screw augers, arrow-head
anchors, or other devices providing for stability of the mobile home. Anchors
and tie-downs shall be placed at least at each corner of the mobile home stand,
and each anchor shall be able to sustain a minimum tensile strength of 2,800
pounds.
(Ord. 575, passed 2-22-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.083 MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of a trailer or mobile home
for which a permit has been issued to fail to keep that trailer or mobile home
in good repair, or for that trailer or mobile home to present a run-down or
shabby appearance.
(Ord. 575, passed 2-22-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.084 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The City Council is hereby authorized to revoke or cancel any permit issued
when it is found that the trailer or mobile home fails to comply with any of
the provisions of the city ordinances, rules, or regulations. Prior to the
revocation or cancellation of the permit, a hearing shall be held at a regular
or a special City Council meeting to determine if the permit should be canceled
or revoked, at which time the permit holder shall be given an opportunity to
present information as to why the permit should not be revoked or canceled. Not
less than 10 days prior to the hearing, the permit holder shall be notified by
U.S. mail of the hearing, and the alleged violations that are the basis for the
hearing.
(Ord. 575, passed 2-22-2000)
§ 151.085 SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES.
   In the event special circumstances or conditions exist that would for safety
or appearance require additional restrictions or requirements, the City Council
may make those additional restrictions or requirements a condition of approval
of the application and issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 575, passed 2-22-2000)
§ 151.086 ADDITIONS.
   Any additions to trailers or mobile homes for which a permit has been issued
must meet the requirements of the city building codes. All such additions must
have a foundation capable of supporting that addition without dependence upon
the trailer or manufactured home for support of any kind.
(Ord. 575, passed 2-22-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.087 PERMIT NONTRANSFERABLE.
   Permits issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall not be
transferable.
(1992 Code, § 10-534) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 151.100 INSPECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Health Officer, upon displaying his or her identification, is
hereby authorized and directed to make inspections to determine the condition
of trailer courts in order to perform his or her duty of safeguarding the
health and safety of occupants of trailer courts and of the general public.
   (B)   The Health Officer, Plumbing Inspector, Building Inspector, Fire
Inspector, Electrical Inspector, or other authorized inspecting personnel shall
have the power to enter at reasonable times upon any private or public property
to inspect and investigate conditions affected by this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 10-506)
§ 151.101 INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   The Health Officer, Plumbing Inspector, Building Inspector, Fire Inspector
and Electrical Inspector shall have the power to inspect the register
containing a record of all trailers and occupants using the trailer court.
(1992 Code, § 10-507)
§ 151.102 DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS; INSPECTOR ACCESS.
   It shall be the duty of the owners or occupants of trailer courts and
trailers contained therein, or of the person in charge thereof, to give the
Health Officer or other authorized inspecting personnel free access to the
premises at reasonable times for the purpose of inspection. The inspecting
personnel, before the commencement of any inspection, shall offer to the owner
or person in charge of the trailer court the opportunity to accompany the
inspecting personnel on the inspection of the premises. The owner shall have a
person in charge of the trailer court, and should the person in charge be
unavailable to accompany the inspecting personnel at the time of the
inspection, this shall in no way delay the inspection.
(1992 Code, § 10-508) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.103 DUTY OF OCCUPANTS; OWNER ACCESS.
   Every occupant of a trailer court shall give the owner thereof or his or her
agent or employee access to any part of that trailer court at reasonable times
to make repairs or alterations necessary to effect compliance with this
chapter.
(1992 Code, § 10-509) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.104 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Health Officer determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provisions of this
chapter, he or she shall give notice of the alleged violation to the person to
whom the permit was issued, as hereinafter provided. The notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Specify a reasonable time (but not less than 30 days) for the
performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Contain an outline of remedial action, which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter; and
      (5)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent; provided, that the
notice shall have been properly served when a copy thereof has been sent by
registered mail to the last known address of the owner or agent, or when the
owner or agent has been served with the notice by any other method authorized
by the laws of this state.
   (B)   At the end of the above-mentioned period the Health Officer shall
inspect the trailer court, and if the alleged violations have not been
corrected, the City Clerk shall revoke the permit and give notice in writing of
the revocation to the person to whom the permit is issued. Upon receipt of
notice of revocation, that person shall cease operations of the trailer court.
(1992 Code, § 10-510) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.105 EMERGENCIES.
   Whenever the Health Officer finds that an emergency exists which requires
immediate action to protect the public health, he or she may, without notice or
hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency and take
action as he or she may deem necessary to meet the emergency, including
requiring the revocation of the permit by the City Clerk. Notwithstanding any
other provisions of this chapter, this order shall be effective immediately,
but upon petition to the Mayor and City Council shall be afforded a hearing as
soon as possible.
(1992 Code, § 10-511) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
Section
   
152.01   Construction on public property; permit required
   
152.02   Permit application and procedures
   
152.03   Location and size
   
152.04   Bill posting
§ 152.01 CONSTRUCTION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to erect or cause to be
erected any advertising display, sign, or other construction in the parkways or
on other city property without first obtaining a permit.
(Neb. RS 17-140) (1992 Code, § 9-901) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.02 PERMIT APPLICATION AND PROCEDURES.
   Any person or persons wishing to erect or cause to be erected any
advertising display, sign, or other construction for the purpose of advertising
on or over any city property shall make an application to the City Clerk. The
application shall contain all the necessary information and documents which the
Zoning Administrator deems appropriate. The Zoning Administrator will then
consider the application, visit the proposed location of the contemplated
construction, and accept or reject the proposed application. If the application
is accepted, the permit will be issued. Any person or persons granted a sign
permit shall be subject to any fees, taxes, or other rules and regulations
which the Zoning Administrator deems appropriate. Any permit so granted shall
be subject to revocation for good and sufficient cause by the Zoning
Administrator.
(Neb. RS 17-140 and 17-207) (1992 Code, § 9-902) (Am. Ord. 704, passed 1-7-
2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.03 LOCATION AND SIZE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to erect or cause to be
erected any signs, posts, awning posts, billboard advertisements, or mercantile
displays upon any street or sidewalk; provided, signs may be erected and
fastened to buildings at least 8 feet above the sidewalks if they are
constructed in such a way as not to exceed 3 feet in length. Electrical
illuminated signs may be erected not to extend beyond the building more than 8
feet, but must be fastened to the building at least 12 feet above the
sidewalks. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any sign or signs
erected prior to the passage of this section that are not an immediate danger
to the residents of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-140 and 17-207) (1992 Code, § 9-903) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04 BILL POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful to paste, nail, or otherwise attach any signs, bills,
or pictures upon any telephone, telegraph, electric light, or other poles or
posts, or to paste or paint any sign, card, picture, or other device upon any
sidewalk or crosswalk in the streets of the city. It shall also be unlawful for
any person to paste, stick, paint, or otherwise attach any sign, circular,
card, picture, or other device upon any automobile or other motor vehicle in
the city without the consent of the owner of the vehicle, or for any person to
mar or deface any motor vehicle belonging to any other person; provided, that
this section shall in no manner interfere with the posting of any notice or
proclamation issued according to the provisions of law.
(Neb. RS 17-140) (1992 Code, § 9-904) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 153: OIL AND GAS WELLS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Minimum requirements
Standards and Requirements
   
153.15   Creation of drilling blocks; number of wells
   
153.16   Location of wells
   
153.17   Abandonment of well
   
153.18   Fixtures; Safety Code applies
   
153.19   Derricks and drilling masts; construction standards
   
153.20   Well casings
   
153.21   Separators and storage tanks
   
153.22   Slush pits
   
153.23   Electric motors required; exceptions
   
153.24   Bailing, swabbing, and testing wells
   
153.25   Casing; master gates
   
153.26   Escape of gas prohibited
   
153.27   Disposal of byproducts
   
153.28   High pressure lines
   
153.29   Working pressure; booster plants
   
153.30   Oil savers
   
153.31   Automatic safety shutoffs
   
153.32   Fences
   
153.33   Non-fireproof buildings restricted
Permits
   
153.45   Drilling permit; application and issuance
   
153.46   Permit to drill additional wells
   
153.47   Bond and proof of insurance required
   
153.48   Permit fee
   
153.49   Hearing before Council; notice
   
153.50   Pipelines; excavations; permit required
   
153.51   Where lines are interchanged
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.65   Paving cut fees
   
153.66   Inspection fees
   
153.67   Compliance with statutes
   
153.68   Violations; stop activity
   
153.69   Suspension of permits
   
153.70   Enforcement
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   To protect the private and public health, safety, and general welfare of
citizens of the city and of the public generally from the danger of fire,
accident, explosion, gas, public nuisances, and other hazards dangerous to
public peace, health, and safety as a result of the drilling and operations for
oil and gas within the city, it is necessary to limit the number and regulate
the spacing, drilling, and operation of oil and gas wells and incidental
facilities within the city, and as an incident thereto it is further necessary
to provide for a fair and just basis of participation in the limited number of
wells so drilled and in the production therefrom.
(1992 Code, § 9-801)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OIL AND GAS. Not only oil and gas as such in combination 1 with the other,
but shall have reference to oil, gas, casinghead gas, casinghead gasoline,
distillate, or other hydrocarbons, or any combination thereof, or any 1
thereof.
   PRODUCTION. Includes all oil and gas produced from wells drilled in the
city.
   WELL. A hole drilled for the purpose of mining for or producing oil and gas.
All measurements required by the terms of this chapter shall be measured from
the center of the hole.
(1992 Code, § 9-802)
§ 153.03 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to be the minimum
requirements for the preservation of the public peace, health, safety, and
general welfare, and compliance with all terms thereof shall not be deemed to
relieve any person from any duty imposed by law to use all necessary care and
take all necessary precautions for the safeguarding of the public peace,
health, safety, and general welfare and the rights of any individual, and it
shall be the duty of any person drilling, operating, or maintaining any well to
use all necessary care and take all precautions necessary of whatsoever nature
which shall be reasonably necessary under the circumstances to protect the
public or the rights thereof.
(Neb. RS 57-901 through 57-922) (1992 Code, § 9-835) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 153.15 CREATION OF DRILLING BLOCKS; NUMBER OF WELLS.
   The lands within the corporate limits are hereby divided into drilling
blocks A to P, inclusive, of approximately 40 acres each as listed on Exhibit A
attached to 1992 Code, § 9-803. Unless otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful
and an offense for any person to drill and complete more than 2 wells for oil
and gas on any such drilling block to each producing horizon underlying the
same, or to drill any well thereon unless a permit therefor shall have first
been obtained. All production from any well drilled on any such drilling block,
except so much thereof as is used in developing and operation thereof, or is
unavoidably lost, shall be apportioned among and allocated to the several
separately owned tracts within that drilling block in the proportion that the
area of each tract bears to the total area of the drilling block. The
production so allocated to each separately owned tract shall, for all intents,
uses, and purposes, be regarded as production from that separately owned tract
and, except as otherwise hereinafter provided, shall be distributed among or
the proceeds thereof paid to the person who in the absence of this chapter
would have shared in the production from that separately owned tract in the
same manner, in the same proportions and upon the same conditions as though the
production so allocated to that tract had actually been produced from that
tract in the absence of this chapter. Wells drilled or operations conducted on
any part of a drilling block shall, for all purposes, be regarded as wells
drilled or operations conducted on each separately owned tract within the
drilling block. Such lands as are now or hereafter may be included within the
corporate limits of the city that are not included within any of the drilling
blocks designated on Exhibit A shall by proper amendment be added to 1 of the
drilling blocks created by this chapter, or a new drilling block shall be
created, whichever shall be found by the City Council to be fair and
reasonable, to carry out the spirit of this chapter and result in substantial
justice to all concerned.
(1992 Code, § 9-803) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.16 LOCATION OF WELLS.
   Except as may be otherwise expressly authorized or provided by the Council,
no well shall be drilled nearer than 200 feet from any church, school, or other
public building as now established in the city, nor nearer than 40 feet from
the front or street property line of the particular property on which the well
is drilled, nor nearer than 50 feet from the exterior boundary line of the
drilling block upon which the same is located. The Council may authorize
directional drilling to properly drain any drilling unit when the surface
location permissible is such as to prevent proper drainage by a vertically
drilled well.
(1992 Code, § 9-804) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.17 ABANDONMENT OF WELL.
   When any permit expires by failure to renew the bond therefor, or if the
well ceases to be productive of oil and gas, the permittee shall, within 90
days of the expiration of the permit or the date the well ceases to be
productive, plug and abandon the well and remove all property from the lease
and restore the surface of the property to its normal condition prior to the
drilling of the well.
(1992 Code, § 9-810) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.18 FIXTURES; SAFETY CODE APPLIES.
   (A)   All pipe lines, connections, and fixtures thereof, installed or used
for the purpose of the transportation of natural gas, shall be equivalent to
the specifications of the National Gas Safety Code, adopted and approved by the
U.S. Department of Commerce and now in force, as to thickness, weight, size,
strength, and general character of material, workmanship, and manner of
installation. All pipe lines used in connection with the drilling of wells,
other than gas lines and the lines used for the transportation of petroleum or
any of its products, shall be of lapweld or seamless pipe and shall be
equivalent to the specifications therefor as now adopted by the American
Petroleum Institute for lapweld or grade A seamless pipe line. All such lines
shall be at all times operated and maintained in a safe manner so as to prevent
all leakage or escape of any of the contents of the lines. If any such lines
shall become unsafe or shall not be maintained as provided herein, or any of
the contents thereof shall escape therefrom, it shall be the duty of the person
in control thereof immediately to discontinue the use thereof and to shut off
all of the contents thereof, until the line shall be repaired. All such lines
shall, on city streets or alleys, be buried to a minimum depth of 30 inches
below the normal surface of the ground, that depth to be measured from the top
of the pipe, and to meet the approval of the Engineer, except that temporary
lines need be buried only to a minimum depth of 18 inches.
   (B)   In the event it shall become necessary to change or remove any of
these pipe lines, that change or removal shall be made at the entire expense of
the owners thereof, upon approval of the Engineer. The removal or change shall
be made within 5 days after notice is served by the city.
(1992 Code, § 9-813) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.19 DERRICKS AND DRILLING MASTS; CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   All derricks and drilling masts for the purpose of drilling wells shall be
constructed entirely of steel, and shall meet all standards of the American
Petroleum Institute.
(1992 Code, § 9-814) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.20 WELL CASINGS.
   All casings for wells shall be handled, set, run, and cemented in place in
accordance with the rules, regulations, and orders of the State Geologist and
in accordance with good oil field practice, and in addition to those
requirements, it shall be unlawful to re-enter a well for the purpose of doing
additional drilling or deepening the same until not less than 24 hours after
the casing has been cemented; provided, however, that the hole shall not be re-
entered for the purpose of drilling or deepening the same until after 48 hours
shall have elapsed after the cementing of the casing through which oil or gas
is to be produced. At all times after the setting of the surface casing and the
completion of the well an adequate blowout preventer or other similar device of
at least 4,000 psi test rating shall be properly installed and continuously
maintained in good working condition. Not less than 500 feet of surface casing
shall be set and cemented so as to protect any and all water-bearing formations
above that depth.
(1992 Code, § 9-815) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.21 SEPARATORS AND STORAGE TANKS.
   All storage tanks, separators, treaters, or treating equipment shall be
located outside the corporate limits, except in unpopulated areas of the city
where there is no residential construction in progress and in any event only
with express permission of the Council.
(1992 Code, § 9-816) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.22 SLUSH PITS.
   Earthen slush pits shall not be used anywhere inside the corporate limits
and the use of steel pits is required, except in noncongested and nonplatted
areas the Council may in its discretion permit the use of earthen slush pits.
(1992 Code, § 9-817) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.23 ELECTRIC MOTORS REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   All motors and machinery operating or furnishing the power for operating any
equipment in connection with the pumping of any wells shall be operated by
electricity; however, other types of power may be used in unpopulated areas of
the city where there is no residential construction in progress and in any
event only with the express permission of the Council. All motors and machinery
operating for furnishing power or operating any equipment in connection with
the drilling operations shall be muffled by muffling devices.
(1992 Code, § 9-818) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.24 BAILING, SWABBING, AND TESTING WELLS.
   It shall be unlawful to bail, swab, or test any well from sundown until
sunrise, or during a period when gas may settle on the ground, or during any
electrical storm, or during any period when the velocity of the wind shall be
greater than 25 miles per hour. During the process of bailing, swabbing, or
testing any well, if gas is present and escaping, all electrical energy shall
be shut off from all wires furnishing energy for lights on or about any
derrick, and only flood lights shall be used during that bailing which are not
less than 40 feet from the well. If a drill stem test is taken, reverse
circulation shall be maintained at all times during the test.
(1992 Code, § 9-819) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.25 CASING; MASTER GATES.
   Each string of casing or pipe within any well through which oil or gas is to
be produced other than by pumping shall be equipped with a master gate securely
fastened thereto.
(1992 Code, § 9-820) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.26 ESCAPE OF GAS PROHIBITED.
   No gas from any well shall be permitted to escape into the air at any time
at the well site.
(1992 Code, § 9-821) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.27 DISPOSAL OF BYPRODUCTS.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to deposit, drain, or
divert into or upon any public highway, street, or alley, drainage ditch, storm
drain, sewer, gutter, paving, creek, river, lake, or lagoon, any oil or liquid
with substantial petroleum content of harmful character or any oily substance
or any mud, rotary mud, sand, or salt water of a harmful nature, or in any
manner to permit by seepage, overflow, or otherwise, any of these substances to
escape from any property owned, leased, or controlled by that person and to
flow or be carried into or upon any such public highway, street, or alley,
drainage ditch, storm drain, sewer, gutter, paving, creek, river, lake, or
lagoon within the corporate limits, except in those cases where the mud, water,
or slush is carried in pipe lines or a flume pursuant to a permit. The Council
may permit the depositing, placing, or discharging of mud, water, or slush in
such places as may be approved by the Council when that mud or slush is carried
in pipe lines or a flume.
(1992 Code, § 9-822) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.28 HIGH PRESSURE LINES.
   Any pipe used for the transportation of air, gas, or water ranging from 600
to 1,000 pounds per square inch pressure, shall be from 2 to 10 inches O.D. in
diameter and shall be seamless pipe with welded or screwed couplings, and the
same shall be covered not less than 42 inches below the regular ground level
and shall be placed in conduit whenever laid under any portion of any street,
roadway, alley, or driveway ordinarily used for heavy vehicular traffic. All
high pressure lines shall be conspicuously labeled and must meet with all rules
and regulations.
(1992 Code, § 9-823) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.29 WORKING PRESSURE; BOOSTER PLANTS.
   In no case shall pipe gas or air be transported through any pipe line within
the city at a working pressure in excess of 1,000 pounds per square inch. If it
is necessary to use a greater working pressure, a gas or air booster plant
shall be installed not closer than 75 feet from the derrick floor of any well
or tank battery and the compressor unit not greater than 100 feet from the
derrick floor of the well being served. In no event shall more than 1,500
pounds per square inch working pressure be used in flowing any well by
artificial means.
(1992 Code, § 9-824) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.30 OIL SAVERS.
   No well shall be swabbed before a device, commonly known as a lubricator,
has been placed on the flow casing, above all outlets or flow lines of the
well, this lubricator to be equipped with an adequate oil saver or stuffing box
at the top of same, total inside length of the lubricator to be not less than 5
feet more than the total length of the swab and turn back on swab line, this
lubricator to be of sufficient size to permit the escape of fluid around the
swab into the well, and shall have a nipple not less than 2 inches in diameter
nor more than 4 inches in length placed on the flow line between the gate valve
on the flow lines and flow casings.
(1992 Code, § 9-825) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.31 AUTOMATIC SAFETY SHUTOFFS.
   Any person operating or maintaining any well flowing oil naturally or
producing oil by means of a gas lift in excess of 25 barrels per hour within
the corporate limits shall, at all times during which the well is naturally
flowing or producing oil by means of gas lift, have automatic safety shutoff
equipment installed and operating on that well; provided, however, that nothing
in this section shall apply to wells producing solely by means other than
natural flow or gas lift.
(1992 Code, § 9-826) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.32 FENCES.
   During drilling or producing operations, each well, and the derrick and
equipment operating or maintained in connection therewith, shall be enclosed in
an adequate protective fence at least 6 feet high.
(1992 Code, § 9-827) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.33 NON-FIREPROOF BUILDINGS RESTRICTED.
   No building constructed of combustible materials shall be located or be
permitted to remain within 50 feet of any producing well.
(1992 Code, § 9-828) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** PERMITS ****
§ 153.45 DRILLING PERMIT; APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Before a permit for the drilling of any well for the production of oil
and gas on any drilling block is issued, a written application therefor shall
be filed with the Clerk. The application shall:
      (1)   State the name of the applicant;
      (2)   Describe the drilling block upon which the proposed well is to be
located; and
      (3)   State the proposed depth or formation to which the well is to be
drilled, and shall have attached thereto:
         (a)   Either certified or photostatic copies of all leases, contracts,
or other instruments under which applicant claims the right to drill a well for
oil and gas on lands in that drilling block;
         (b)   A certificate of a qualified engineer showing the exact acreage
within the drilling block and the total acreage owned, leased, or otherwise
controlled by the applicant; and
         (c)   A map or plat of the drilling block showing either by stated
dimensions or according to scale, the location of the proposed well and of all
tanks, pits, embarkments, fences, and other details of the proposed use of the
property necessary or incident to the drilling of the well.
   (B)   The application shall be verified by the applicant or his or her duly
authorized agent. The application may be filed by any person who in the absence
of this chapter would, by reason of ownership, lease, contract, or otherwise,
own or control the right to drill upon or develop for oil and gas all or any
part of the subject drilling block.
   (C)   Upon the filing of any application for the drilling of a well
hereunder, the same shall forthwith be referred by the City Clerk to the City
Council, whereupon the Council shall, without delay, set the same for hearing
at an early date, cause notice of the hearing to be given, and proceed to hear
and consider the same. If upon that hearing it is found that the applicant
owns, holds leases upon, or otherwise controls the whole of the drilling block
and that the application and the location and other circumstances incident to
the drilling of the proposed well comply with this chapter, the applicant shall
be issued a permit to drill the same subject only to the other provisions and
conditions of this chapter, and the laws of the state. If, upon the hearing, it
is found that the applicant owns, holds leases on, or otherwise controls less
than the whole of the drilling block, the Council, taking into account the
rights, interests, and equities of the several persons who in the absence of
this chapter would have the right to drill on the different parts of the
drilling block, shall grant a permit for the drilling of the well upon such
terms and conditions as are found by the Council to be fair and reasonable and
such as will avoid unnecessary hardship, carry out the spirit of this chapter,
and result in substantial justice to all concerned; provided, that regardless
of who may file the application the person owning, holding leases on, or
otherwise controlling the right to drill 50% or more of the drilling block
shall have the right, if that person within a reasonable time to be fixed by
the Council elects so to do, to manage, conduct, and carry on the drilling and
operation of the well.
   (D)   The granting of a permit to drill a well to a particular depth or
formation shall constitute a permit to complete the well in a shallower
formation if another well on the same drilling block is not already completed
in and producing from that shallower formation, in which event another permit
may be granted for the drilling of another well thereon to the deeper formation
if no other well on that drilling block is completed in and producing from the
deeper formation.
   (E)   Any permit granted in compliance with this section shall automatically
expire unless within 90 days from the date of issuance of the permit the person
to whom the permit has been issued has commenced drilling operations on the
drilling block designated to the permit.
(1992 Code, § 9-805) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.46 PERMIT TO DRILL ADDITIONAL WELLS.
   It shall be within the power of the Council, by proper enactment, to permit
the drilling of additional wells on the drilling blocks created by this
chapter. Regardless of any increase in the number of wells that may later be
authorized to be drilled on any drilling block as created hereunder, the size
of the drilling block shall not be reduced.
(1992 Code, § 9-806)
§ 153.47 BOND AND PROOF OF INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No permit for the drilling of any well shall be issued until the
applicant shall have filed with the City Clerk a good and sufficient bond and
proof of insurance coverage, this bond to be executed by and insurance held
with a bonding, indemnity, or insurance company authorized to do business
within the state, with the bond to run in the name of the city and conditioned
that the applicant will drill the well in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter, the statutes of the state, and the rules and regulations of the
State Geologist. The amount of these bonds shall be $30,000 and shall be kept
in force at all times during the drilling operations. The applicant shall also
file with the Clerk a certificate of insurance showing that the applicant has
purchased liability insurance in the principal sum of not less than $150,000
covering any liability imposed by law or damages on account of injury to
property either private or public or bodily injury including death received or
suffered by any person and resulting from the drilling operation or maintenance
of the well or any structures, machinery, equipment, or tanks connected
therewith. This insurance shall be approved by the Council and shall be kept in
full force and effect so long as operations are pursued on the well site and so
long as production is being obtained therefrom. Any permit shall expire when at
any time the well is not covered by a bond or insurance as herein required.
   (B)   Proof of insurance as referred to herein shall be made by filing with
the Clerk insurance certificates in each case by a representative of an
insurance company authorized to do business in the state. Each of these
certificates shall certify as to the amount and kind of insurance the applicant
has in force with the company, and it shall state that if the policy is
cancelled or amended 10 days’ written notice thereof shall be given to the
city.
(1992 Code, § 9-807) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.48 PERMIT FEE.
   No permit shall be granted for the putting down of any well until the
applicant shall have paid to the city, by paying to the Clerk, the sum of $500,
which shall be the fee for each permit so granted.
(1992 Code, § 9-808)
§ 153.49 HEARING BEFORE COUNCIL; NOTICE.
   Permits for the drilling of wells within the city limits may be granted or
denied by the Council only after notice and public hearing. Before taking any
such action the Council shall cause public notice of the hearing thereon to be
given by publication of the notice in 1 issue of the Western Nebraska Observer
and by mailing copies of the notice to all parties who may have filed written
request with the Clerk asking to be so notified. The notice shall be mailed or
published at least 5 days prior to the day of the hearing. The notice shall be
signed by the Clerk and shall state the time, place, and purpose of the
hearing, together with a description of the drilling block with respect to
which action is to be taken. The Council shall have authority to continue the
hearing to a date certain without further notice.
(1992 Code, § 9-809)
§ 153.50 PIPELINES; EXCAVATIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, either as
principal or agent, to make any excavation in any part of the streets, alleys,
highways, parkings, sidewalk areas, or other public property for the purpose of
laying, installing, or maintaining any pipe line in or upon that property,
without first having obtained a permit from the Clerk so to do. The applicant
for this permit shall file with the Clerk a plan showing in detail the size of
the pipe line, the exact location of the excavation or pipe line, the depth and
width thereof, and the location thereof, with particular reference to all
structures or lines of the city or any public utility, and the sidewalks,
pavements, or other public improvements.
   (B)   Each applicant for a permit hereafter shall pay an inspection and
regulation fee for the permit based on the number of rods in length the pipe
line shall occupy of the streets, alleys, highways, parkings, sidewalk areas,
or other public property belonging to the city in the following amounts.
      (1)   Where the width of the ditch excavated for the pipe line does not
exceed 25 inches, the fee shall be $1 per rod, even though more than 1 pipe
line is laid in the same ditch.
      (2)   Each owner of a pipe line shall for each year the pipe line is
continued and maintained under the streets or alleys pay on the first day of
May, in each year, an annual inspection and regulation fee of $0.10 per rod for
each pipe line for each and every rod that pipe line shall occupy of the
streets, alleys, highways, parking, sidewalk areas, or other public property
belonging to the city; provided, however, that upon the payment of $1 per rod
for a permit, the owner shall not be required to pay $0.10 per rod until the
first day of May following the issuance of that permit. Any permit may be
revoked upon 10 days’ notice for the failure to pay the fees herein required,
and each day’s continuance of the pipe line after that revocation shall
constitute a separate offense. Before any excavation is made for the purpose of
removing any pipe line or pipe lines located in or upon any part of any street,
alley, highway, parking, sidewalk area, or other public property, the person
desiring to make the removal shall obtain a permit for that purpose in the same
manner as provided herein for the installation of the pipe line and shall pay
an inspection and regulation fee to be determined as provided herein for the
installation of the pipe line.
(1992 Code, § 9-811) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.51 WHERE LINES ARE INTERCHANGED.
   In any case where any pipe line covered by §
153.50 of this code is placed in a ditch where another pipe line covered by
that section is being removed, if it is not necessary to deepen the ditch and
there is not involved a placing of a high pressure line in a ditch where a low
pressure line has heretofore been, only $1 per rod shall be collected upon the
roddage as determined under §
153.50; provided, however, that in any case where it is necessary to deepen the
ditch or the new pipe line being placed in the ditch is a high pressure line
taking the place of a low pressure line, $1 per rod shall be charged for the
installation of the line being installed and $1 per rod shall be charged for
the removal of the line being removed as determined under §
153.50.
(1992 Code, § 9-812)
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 153.65 PAVING CUT FEES.
   When it shall become necessary in laying or putting down, or taking up any
pipe line or conduit, to make cuts upon the streets, alleys, highways,
parkings, sidewalk areas, or any other property owned by the city which is
paved with asphalt or concrete, or rolled sand with asphalt, or oiled, a
minimum fee of $10 shall be charged for all such cuts up to 1 square yard; from
2 to 5 square yards, a fee of $8 per square yard; from 6 to 20 square yards,
inclusive, a fee of $6 per square yard; and from 21 square yards, a fee of $5
per square yard or fraction thereof where cuts are continuous.
(1992 Code, § 9-829)
§ 153.66 INSPECTION FEES.
   The inspection fees for opening the pavement shall be $5 for all cuts up to
and including 2 square yards in area; from 3 to 12 square yards, inclusive, in
area where the cuts are continuous, $1 dollar per square yard or fraction
thereof; from 13 to 20 square yards, inclusive, $0.50 per square yard; and each
additional square yard or fraction thereof where the cuts are continuous, $0.25
per square yard, payable in advance.
(1992 Code, § 9-830)
§ 153.67 COMPLIANCE WITH STATUTES.
   In the conduct of operations and the drilling of any well for oil and gas
within the corporate limits, all of the rules and regulations of the State
Geologist and all of the statutes of the state shall be followed and complied
with.
(1992 Code, § 9-831) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.68 VIOLATIONS; STOP ACTIVITY.
   When the Engineer, Fire Chief, or Chief of Police shall find any person is
carrying on any activity in violation of this chapter, he or she shall order
the activity to cease until the one offending shall comply with the provisions
hereof; and it shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to renew that
activity when so ordered to stop until this chapter has been complied with and
the Engineer, Fire Chief, or Chief of Police has so found and given permission
for the renewed activity.
(1992 Code, § 9-832) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.69 SUSPENSION OF PERMITS.
   The Mayor is hereby granted the authority to suspend the permit of any
person covering the operation of any well where any of the provisions of this
chapter are violated, which suspension of any such permit shall be effective
until such time as that person shall comply with the provisions of this
chapter. It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to operate any well
during any period in which the permit covering the operation of that well is so
suspended. The provisions of this section shall in no way limit or interfere
with the enforcement of the penalties for the violation as elsewhere provided
for in this code, but shall be cumulative and in addition to those penalties.
(1992 Code, § 9-833) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.70 ENFORCEMENT.
   Full police authority for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this
chapter are hereby given the Chief of the Fire Department, the Mayor, Chief of
Police, and the Engineer, or any of their authorized representatives. Any
employee of the city who shall be directed to enforce the provisions of this
chapter shall have full authority to cause any of the provisions thereof to be
enforced and shall have all power and authority by law imposed upon peace,
fire, and health officers. Accurate information shall be furnished by the
superintendent or person in charge of the lease to the Chief of the Fire
Department, Mayor, Chief of Police, Engineer, or any of their authorized
representatives, concerning all drilling operations, depths of wells, character
of equipment, or any other information which may be required for the proper
inspection or regulation of all wells, equipment, or appurtenances thereto.
(1992 Code, § 9-834) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 154: ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Zoning Ordinance adopted by reference
   
154.02   Subdivision Regulations adopted by reference
   
154.03   Comprehensive Plan adopted by reference
§ 154.01 ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   For the purpose of setting minimum standards to promote the public
health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of
the community of Kimball, Nebraska and to lessen congestion in the streets; to
secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to provide adequate light
and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of
population; and to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewage, schools, parks, and other public improvements, the zoning regulations
of the city, presented and prepared by said city are hereby amended in
accordance with the list of amendments. The adoption of such revised zoning
regulations shall include any future amendments thereto as may be made from
time to time. Said amended zoning regulations per the list of zoning
amendments, are hereby incorporated by reference in this section as if set out
in full. One copy of the zoning regulations shall be maintained by the
Municipal Clerk at the City Office and available for public inspection during
regular office hours.
   (B)   The city and certain properties within and up to 1 mile in all
directions of its corporate limits are hereby divided into zones, or districts,
as shown on the official zoning map which, together with all explanatory
material and documentation is hereby adopted by reference, declared to be part
of the zoning regulations of the city and further declared to be part of this
section. The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the
Mayor, attested to by the Municipal Clerk and bearing the seal of the city
under the following words:
“This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in §
154.01(B) of Ordinance No. 736 of the City of Kimball, Nebraska, adopted August
16, 2016. The official zoning map of the area within the corporate limits and
the planning jurisdiction area adjacent and 1 mile beyond the corporate limits
of the City of Kimball together with all changes, amendments or additions
thereto, shall be maintained in the office of the Municipal Clerk and available
for public inspection during regular office hours.”
(Ord. 611, passed 6--2003; Am. Ord. 736, passed 8-16-2016; Am. Ord. 796, passed
11-16-2021; Am. Ord. 797, passed 11-16-2021; Am. Ord. 800, passed 1-4-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922, as amended
§ 154.02 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   In order to accommodate anticipated long-range future growth, the
Subdivision Regulations are hereby adopted by reference as if set forth fully
herein. Three copies of the adopted regulations shall be kept on file with the
City Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the public during
office hours.
(Ord. 607, passed 1-22-2002; Am. Ord. 812, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 154.03 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   In order to accommodate anticipated long-range future growth, the
Comprehensive Plan is hereby adopted by reference as if set forth fully herein.
Three copies of the adopted plan shall be kept on file with the City Clerk and
available for inspection by any member of the public during office hours.
(Am. Ord. 829, passed 6-18-2024)
CHAPTER 155: WELLHEAD PROTECTION
Section
   
155.01   Definition
   
155.02   Established
   
155.03   Permit required
   
155.04   Administration and enforcement
   
155.05   Application for permit
   
155.06   Permit required before work
   
155.07   Pre-existing structures or uses
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA. Surface and subsurface areas surrounding a water
well or well field, supplying a public water system, through which contaminants
are reasonably likely or likely to move toward and reach such water or well
field.
(Ord. 672, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 155.02 ESTABLISHED.
   The Mayor and City Council designate a wellhead protection area for the
purpose of protection of the public water supply system. The boundaries of the
wellhead protection area are in reference to the wellhead protection area
boundary map on file at the office of the City Clerk. The wellhead protection
area maps for the Municipal Well Field are provided by the Nebraska Department
of Environmental Quality and were presented to the city on or about May 17,
2005.
(Ord. 672, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 155.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The placing, installing, constructing, conducting or replacing of any
structure or activity as set forth in §
155.04, hereinafter termed “wellhead area structure activity,” within the
wellhead protection area shall not be permitted after the effective date of
this chapter unless a permit as set forth herein has been obtained. The owner
of the wellhead structure or activity shall have the burden of establishing the
existence and the use of the wellhead area structure or activity at the time of
the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Any wellhead structure or activity shall be allowed upon determination
by the Board of Public Works that such activity does not constitute a hazard or
threat to the quality of the municipal water supply, provided, application for
a permit to conduct such activity on said property is made and a permit
approved by the Board of Public Works for said activity and a permit for the
activity is issued by the Water Superintendent or his or her designee.
(Ord. 672, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 155.04 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Board of Public Works shall be responsible for implementation and
enforcement of the rules and regulations established by this chapter and shall
authorize the issuance of any permit for which application is made pursuant to
this ordinance. All permits shall be approved or rejected by roll call vote.
The Water Superintendent shall be charged with administration of the rules and
regulations.
(Ord. 672, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 155.05 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person applying for a permit to conduct activity within the
wellhead protection area as set forth in §
155.03(A) shall apply for a permit with the City Clerk. The application shall
set forth the following information:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   The activity requested to be conducted;
      (3)   A legal description of the land or subsurface upon which the
activity will be conducted, including measurements from the location of the
activity to a city well;
      (4)   The date upon which commencement of the activity will occur;
      (5)   The anticipated duration of the activity; and
      (6)   An agreement to pay any engineering costs necessary to determine
the impact of the activity upon the city water supply.
   (B)   Upon receiving the application, the City Clerk shall provide a copy of
the application to the Water Superintendent to review the application and
determine the necessity of engineering or testing to determine the
appropriateness of granting the permit. Upon the determination that the
activity will not adversely impact the water supply of the city, the
application shall be forwarded to the Board of Public Works for determination
if the application meets the criteria set by the city and if a permit should be
issued for the activity. Any denial of a permit application may be appealed to
the City Council. The City Council shall have 45 days to determine the appeal.
(Ord. 672, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 155.06 PERMIT REQUIRED BEFORE WORK.
   Prior to placing, installing, constructing, expanding, or replacing any
structures upon property where the structure or activity is proposed, the owner
shall file with the City Clerk an application for a wellhead area structure or
activity permit.
(Ord. 672, passed 7-6-2011) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.07 PRE-EXISTING STRUCTURES OR USES.
   Wellhead area structures or activities in existence and used in the wellhead
protection area as of the effective date of this chapter shall continue to be
permitted unless such continued existence or use, in the opinion of the Board
of Public Works, presents a hazard to the quality of the municipal water
supply. If the Board of Public Works determines that an existing wellhead area
structure or activity presents a hazard, the Water Superintendent shall notify
the owner of the structure or activity to cease and desist the structure or
activity. If the owner of the wellhead area structure or activity desires to
continue operation of the structure or activity, the owner may seek to procure
a permit pursuant to this chapter. If the owner does not cease and desist
pursuant to such notice, the city may file an action against the owner pursuant
to § 155.99.
(Ord. 672, passed 7-6-2011)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
a fine not to exceed $500.The continuation of a violation of this chapter shall
be deemed an additional crime for every 24 hours of such continued violation.
In addition, the city may obtain injunctive relief, sue for damages, and pursue
any other remedy available to it under the laws of the state or other authority
having jurisdiction over such matters.
(Ord. 672, passed 7-6-2011)
CHAPTER 156: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Statutory authorization
   
156.02   Findings of fact
   
156.03   Statement of purpose
   
156.04   Local Administrator; responsibilities
   
156.05   Designation of current FHBM/FIRM
   
156.06   Interpretation as minimum requirements
   
156.07   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
156.08   Conflicting ordinances; amendments
   
156.09   Definitions
Permits; Applications
   
156.15   Permits required
   
156.16   Development permit applications review
   
156.17   All applications review
   
156.18   Subdivision applications
Requirements and Exceptions
   
156.30   Water and sewage systems
   
156.31   Storage of material and equipment
   
156.32   Flood-carrying capacity within any watercourse
   
156.33   Variance procedures
   
156.34   Nonconforming use
   
156.35   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
156.36   Appeal of permit denial
 
   
156.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 156.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of Nebraska has in Neb. RS 31-1001 to 31-1022,
as amended, assigned the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt
floodplain management regulations designed to protect the public health, safety
and general welfare. Therefore, the City Council ordains the following chapter.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 156.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the city, if any, are subject to inundation which could potentially
result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base all of which could
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by
the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood
heights and velocities; and the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses
vulnerable to floods or hazardous to others, which are inadequately elevated or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 156.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize potential losses described in §
156.02(A) by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities.
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction.
   (C)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for intended
purposes because of flood hazard.
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 156.04 LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The City Administrator/Zoning Administrator hereby has these added
responsibilities and is authorized and directed to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances of the city now in force or
hereafter adopted, related to zoning, subdivision or building codes.
   (B)   The City Administrator/Zoning Administrator shall be appointed to
these additional responsibilities by resolution of the governing body and his/
her appointment shall continue during good behavior and satisfactory service.
During temporary absence or disability of the City Administrator/ Zoning
Administrator, the governing body of the city shall designate an acting
administrator.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 156.05 DESIGNATION OF CURRENT FHBM/FIRM.
   Until a Flood Hazard Boundary Map/Flood Insurance Rate Map has been
published, any development permit application shall meet the appropriate
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 156.06 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal, of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 156.07 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and will be based on engineering and
scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the
flood height may be increased by man-made or natural causes, such as ice jams
and bridge openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that
areas outside of any determined floodplain district boundaries or land uses
permitted within such districts will be free from flooding or flood damage.
This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city or any officer
or employee thereof for any flood damages that may result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 156.08 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES; AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter shall take precedence over conflicting ordinances or parts of
ordinances. The city may, from time to time, amend this chapter to reflect any
and all changes in the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973. The
regulations of this chapter are in compliance with the National Flood Insurance
Program Regulations as published in C.F.R. Title 44 and the 1983 Nebraska
Floodplain Management Act.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 156.09 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. The condition of flooding having a one percent chance of
annual occurrence.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION OF EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
winch the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; or the
unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the
risk premium applicable to the community.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and then-contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is listed individually in the
National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the Department of
Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district
or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a
registered historic district; individually listed on a state inventory of
historic places in states with historic preservation programs which have been
approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or individually listed on a local
inventory of historic places in communities with historic preservation programs
that have been certified either by an approved state program as determined by
the Secretary of the Interior or directly by the Secretary of the Interior in
states without approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is built on a single chassis; 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The water surface elevation of the 100-year
flood.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not the alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before START OF CONSTRUCTION of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions, or any alteration of a
historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the terms of a floodplain
management ordinance.
   VIOLATION. the failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
**** PERMITS; APPLICATIONS ****
§ 156.15 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall initiate any floodplain development or
substantial improvement or cause the same to be done without first obtaining a
separate permit for development as defined in this chapter.
   (A)   Generally. Within special flood hazard areas, separate floodplain
development permits are required for all new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments, including the placement of manufactured
homes.
   (B)   Application. To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant
shall first file an application in writing on a form furnished for that
purpose. Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the
floodplain development permit for which application is made.
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development.
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended.
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction.
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee or his authorized agent who may be
required to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
      (6)   Within designated floodplain areas, be accompanied by elevations of
the lowest floor, including basement, or in the case of floodproofed non-
residential structures, the elevation to which it shall be floodproofed.
Documentation or certification of such elevations will be maintained by the
City Administrator/Zoning Administrator.
      (7)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
City Administrator/Zoning Administrator (such as, require a statement from the
applicant that they are aware that elevating or floodproofing structures above
the minimum levels will result in premium reduction, especially in the case of
non-residential floodproofing when a minus one foot penalty is assessed at the
time of rating the structure for the policy premium.)
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.16 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATIONS REVIEW.
   The City Administrator/Zoning Administrator shall review all development
permit applications to determine if the site of the proposed development is
reasonably safe from flooding and that all necessary permits have been received
as required by federal or state law.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 156.17 ALL APPLICATIONS REVIEW.
   The City Administrator/Zoning Administrator, in reviewing all applications
for new construction, substantial improvements, prefabricated buildings,
placement of manufactured homes and other development(s) (as defined in §
156.09) will:
   (A)   Obtain, review and reasonably utilize, if available, any regulatory
flood elevation data and floodway data available from federal, state or other
sources, until such other data is provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a Flood Insurance Study; and require within special flood
hazard areas that the following performance standards be met:
      (1)   That until a floodway has been designated. No development or
substantial improvement may be permitted within the identified floodplain
unless the applicant has demonstrated that the proposed development or
substantial improvement, when combined with all other existing and reasonably
anticipated developments or substantial improvements, will not increase the
water surface elevation of the 100-year flood more than 1-foot at any location.
      (2)   Residential construction.  New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated at least 1-foot above the base flood elevation.
      (3)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least 1
foot above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be floodproofed so that below such a level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall certify that the standards of this subsection are satisfied.
The certification shall be provided to the local administrator.
      (4)   Require for all new construction and substantial improvements. That
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria: A minimum of 2 openings having a total net area of
not less than 1 square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than
1 foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
   (B)   Require the use of construction materials that are resistant to flood
damage.
   (C)   Require the use of construction methods and practices that will
minimize flood damage.
   (D)   Require that new structures be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
   (E)   New structures be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding.
   (F)   Assure that all manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in
accordance with state laws, local building codes and FEMA guidelines. In the
event that over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors are used, the following
specific requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the 4 corners of the
manufactured home with 2 additional ties per side at the intermediate locations
and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side.
      (2)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side.
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds.
      (4)   Any additions to manufactured homes be similarly anchored.
   (G)   Assure that all manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within special flood hazard areas on sites:
      (1)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (3)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      (4)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated at least 1 foot above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in
accordance with the provisions of division (F) of this section.
   (H)   Assure that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within special
flood hazard areas that are not subject to the provisions of division (G) of
this section be elevated so that either:
      (1)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at least one foot
above the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (F) of
this section.
   (I)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within the
identified special flood hazard areas either be on the site for fewer than 180
consecutive days; be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or meet the
permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes of this chapter. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 156.18 SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS.
   The City Council shall review all subdivision applications and other
proposed new developments (including manufactured home parks or subdivisions)
and shall make findings of fact and assure that:
   (A)   All such proposed developments are consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments (including
proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions), greater than five
acres or 50 lots, whichever is lesser, include within such proposals regulatory
flood elevation data in special flood hazard areas.
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   (D)   All public utilities and facilities are located so as to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
**** REQUIREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS ****
§ 156.30 WATER AND SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   New and replacement water and sewage systems shall be constructed to
eliminate or minimize infiltration by, or discharge into floodwaters. Moreover,
on-site waste disposal systems will be designed to avoid impairment or
contamination during flooding.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 156.31 STORAGE OF MATERIAL AND EQUIPMENT.
   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding buoyant,
flammable, explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal or plant life is
prohibited. Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 156.32 FLOOD-CARRYING CAPACITY WITHIN ANY WATERCOURSE.
   The City Council will ensure that the flood-carrying capacity within the
altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained. The city will
notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State Coordinating
Office (Nebraska Natural Resources Commission) prior to any alteration or
relocation of a watercourse and submit copies of such notifications to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. Moreover, the city will work with
appropriate state and federal agencies in every way possible in complying with
the National Flood Insurance Program in accordance with the National Disaster
Protection Act of 1973.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 156.33 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the city shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the City Administrator/Zoning Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb. RS
19-912.
   (D)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Adjustment shall
consider all technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Generally variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of 1/2-acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing subsections (2) through (5) have been fully
considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and
sufficient cause; a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional
threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause
fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws
or ordinances/ resolutions.
      (5)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature of
a community official that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure
below base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and such
construction below the base flood level increases risks to life and property.
The notification shall be maintained with the record of all variance actions as
required by this chapter.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 156.34 NON-CONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the ordinance, but which is not in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the City Administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of 12 months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof which are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 156.35 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existent easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall
prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby
repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 156.36 APPEAL.
   Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is denied by the City
Administrator/Zoning Administrator, the applicant may apply for such permit or
variance directly to the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than $500, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in
the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city or other appropriate
authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-15-2010)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to 1992 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section             Code Section
3-501 through 3-514         32.008
9-601 through 9-612         114.02
9-604                       114.02
9-609                       114.02
9-646                       114.01
9-701                       134.03
10-101 through 10-143       35.12
10-606 through 10-612       35.12
11-101                      33.31
11-104                      33.30
11-105                      33.30
11-109                      33.30
11-110                      33.30
11-111                      33.30
11-112                      33.30
11-113                      33.30
11-114                      33.30
11-115                      33.30
11-116                      33.30
11-117                      33.30
11-118                      33.30
12-301 through 12-403       91.01
12-401 through 12-403       32.006
13-310                      94.36,
                            94.53
13-311                      94.36
13-312                      94.36,
                            94.53
13-313                      94.36
13-314                      94.36,
                            94.53
13-403                      94.33
13-503                      35.01
13-504                      35.33
13-505                      35.33
13-506                      35.34
13-507                      35.34
13-508                      35.35
13-509                      35.35
13-509.01                   35.32
13-509.02                   35.32
13-510                      35.40
13-511                      35.37
13-518 to 13-522            35.34,
                            35.35
13-518 through 13-522       35.37
13-606                      35.03
13-609                      35.14
13-903                      35.05
13-1802                     32.081
13-2016.01                  54.01
13-2020                     54.03
16-323                      32.080
16-691.01                   35.11
16-714 through 16-716       35.10
17-100                      10.16
17-102                      30.15
17-103                      30.15
                            30.15,
17-104                      30.20,
                            34.06
17-106                      33.05
                            30.01,
                            30.03,
17-107                      31.01,
                            31.09,
                            31.10,
                            32.083
17-108                      33.45
                            30.02,
17-108.02                   30.15,
                            31.02,
                            34.06
17-110                      30.02
17-111                      30.02
17-112                      30.02
17-113                      30.02
17-114                      30.02
17-117                      30.02
17-118                      32.080,
                            32.081
17-119                      94.01
                            31.09,
                            31.13,
17-121                      32.004,
                            93.01,
                            93.02
17-123.01                   54.05 -
                            54.07
17-129                      131.01
                            112.01,
                            112.03 -
17-134                      112.05,
                            112.08,
                            112.09,
                            113.03
17-135                      111.02
17-138                      95.06
17-140                      152.01 -
                            152.04
17-142                      131.20,
                            131.21, 150.20
17-143                      115.01
17-144                      115.01
17-148                      30.16
                            32.041,
17-149                      50.07,
                            52.015
17-150                      31.12
                            113.03,
17-207                      152.02,
                            152.03
17-405                      31.12
17-503                      94.30
17-503.01                   94.30
17-503.02                   94.31
17-505                      10.99,
                            30.45
17-506                      35.50
17-507                      35.51
17-508                      94.65
                            94.02,
17-509                      94.02,
                            94.81
17-509 to 17-521            94.53
17-510                      94.83
17-510 to 17-512            94.02
17-511                      94.79,
                            94.80
17-512                      94.82
17-513 to 17-524            94.02
17-522                      94.53
17-524                      94.53,
                            94.79
17-525                      112.04,
                            113.02
17-526                      95.09,
                            95.43
17-531                      32.040
17-531 through 17-546       51.902
17-534                      32.040
17-536                      51.002
                            50.07,
                            51.016,
17-537                      51.018,
                            51.020,
                            51.024,
                            51.903
17-538                      50.06
17-539                      51.015
17-540                      35.11,
                            51.900
17-541                      31.01
                            51.022,
17-542                      51.023,
                            51.901
17-547                      95.02,
                            95.09
17-548                      95.09,
                            95.10
17-551                      115.01
17-552                      115.01,
                            115.02
                            91.18,
17-555                      94.04,
                            131.20 -
                            131.22
                            92.06,
                            92.35,
                            92.36,
17-556                      131.01,
                            131.06,
                            133.60,
                            133.61
                            94.05,
17-557                      94.77 ,
                            131.20,
                            131.21
17-557.01                   94.05
17-558                      94.68
17-559                      94.68
                            91.19,
17-563                      93.16,
                            94.19,
                            133.05
17-567                      94.03,
                            94.65
17-568                      31.12
17-568.01                   31.12,
                            35.02
17-568.02                   35.02
17-602                      34.03
17-604                      33.30,
                            33.45
17-605                      31.06
17-606                      31.07
17-607                      35.09
17-608                      35.11
17-609                      35.11
17-610                      31.08
17-611                      33.45
17-612                      33.45
                            30.48,
17-613                      30.50 -
                            30.52,
                            35.02
                            30.48,
17-614                      30.49,
                            30.53
17-615                      30.51
17-616                      30.49
17-701                      35.30
17-702                      35.08,
                            35.54
17-703                      35.06
17-706                      35.36
17-707                      32.082
17-708                      35.04
17-709                      35.04
17-710                      35.07
17-711                      35.04
17-714                      35.05
17-715                      35.05
17-720                      35.10
17-801 through 17-808       32.005
17-803                      35.11
17-810                      32.005
17-901                      52.016,
                            52.017
                            50.07,
                            52.016,
                            52.017,
                            53.03,
                            53.05,
17-902                      53.06,
                            53.08,
                            53.35,
                            53.36,
                            53.38,
                            53.39
17-902 through 17-904       32.042
17-906                      32.042
17-909                      32.042
17-919                      31.12
17-920                      131.22
17-925.01                   32.041,
                            50.06
17-925.02                   52.084
17-941                      91.02
17-948                      90.25
17-948 through 17-952       90.25
17-949                      90.25
17-951                      90.25
17-953                      94.32
17-953.01                   94.32
17-954                      94.32
17-1001                     93.16
18-131                      30.50
                            30.45,
18-132                      92.01,
                            154.01
18-305 through 18-312       33.46
18-412.01                   35.02
                            50.06,
18-503                      52.015 -
                            52.017
18-1001 through 18-1006     94.30
18-1214                     35.56
18-1216                     35.06
18-1303                     54.08
18-1701                     31.06
18-1705                     94.65
                            10.99,
                            93.16,
                            93.45 -
18-1720                     93.47,
                            130.03,
                            133.02,
                            133.05
18-1722                     10.99
18-1736                     73.45,
                            73.46
                            73.46,
18-1737                     73.47,
                            73.48
18-1738                     73.45,
                            73.49
18-1738.01                  73.49
18-1739                     73.46,
                            73.47
18-1741.01                  73.45,
                            73.49
18-1741.04                  73.49
18-1741.06                  73.49
18-1743                     150.03
18-1748                     52.022,
                            94.72
18-1751                     94.02,
                            94.18
18-1752                     91.20
18-1755                     94.34
18-1756                     35.02
18-1801 through 18-1805     35.12
18-2001 through 18-2004     94.67
18-2003                     94.67
18-2005                     94.65
18-2101 et seq.             32.010
18-2102.01                  32.009
18-2701 through 18-2738     32.026
18-2715                     32.022
18-2717                     32.020,
                            32.025
18-2803                     35.38
18-2804                     35.03,
                            35.38
18-2805                     35.38
18-2806                     35.38
18-2807                     35.38
18-2808                     35.38
19-710                      91.17
19-901                      32.003
19-901 et seq.              32.002,
                            32.003
19-901 to 19-914            32.003
19-901 to 19-915            32.003
19-902                      92.01
19-903                      32.002
19-903 to 19-904.01         32.003
19-907                      32.003
19-908                      32.002,
                            32.003
19-909                      32.003
19-910                      32.003
19-912                      32.003,
                            156.33
19-912.01                   32.003
19-915                      30.53
19-916                      32.002
                            30.45,
19-922                      92.01,
                            154.01
19-924 through 19-933       32.002
19-926                      32.002
19-927                      32.002
19-928                      32.002
19-929                      32.002
19-929(3)                   32.003
19-930 to 19-933            32.002
19-1101                     31.07
19-1102                     31.06
19-1103                     31.06,
                            31.07
19-1301                     35.08
19-1302                     35.08
19-1303                     35.08
19-1304                     35.08
19-1305                     32.040
19-1309                     35.52
19-1310                     35.52
19-1311                     35.52
19-1312                     35.52
                            53.05,
                            53.06,
                            53.08,
                            53.12,
19-1404                     53.20,
                            53.21,
                            53.35,
                            53.36,
                            53.38
19-2106                     54.02
19-2416                     94.65
19-2417 through 19-2419     94.53
19-2427                     94.17
                            94.02,
19-2428 through 19-2431     94.18,
                            94.79,
                            94.84
                            51.016,
19-2701                     51.019,
                            53.03
19-2902                     35.03
19-2903                     35.03
19-2904                     35.03
19-2905                     35.03
19-2906 through 19-2909     35.03
19-3101                     30.19
19-3701                     30.52
20-101 et seq.              97.06
20-203                      95.45
23-114.02                   32.003
23-122                      31.06
23-186                      35.56
25-505.01                   34.10
25-1801                     50.05
25-21,275                   50.05
25-21,276                   50.05
25-21,277                   50.05
25-21,278                   50.05
25-2703                     30.45
28-109                      95.45
Chapter 28, art. 3          111.22
28-318                      134.01,
                            134.02
Chapter 28, art. 4          111.22
28-431                      98.02,
                            133.45
28-477                      131.03
28-511.01                   130.09
28-512                      53.23
28-515.02                   50.04
28-519                      130.01
28-520                      95.45,
                            130.02
28-521                      95.45,
                            130.02
28-523                      90.26,
                            133.06
28-572                      130.07
28-573                      130.07
28-588                      130.06
28-588.01                   130.06
28-609                      132.01
28-610                      132.02
Chapter 28, art. 7          111.22
Chapter 28, art. 8          111.22
28-801                      134.01
28-801 through 28-803       131.04
28-804                      131.06
28-806                      134.02
28-903                      132.03
28-904                      132.04
28-906                      95.46,
                            132.05
28-907                      132.07
28-908                      132.06
28-921                      134.05
Chapter 28, art. 10         111.22
28-1004                     95.08
28-1005                     95.08
28-1005.04                  95.08
28-1008                     95.06,
                            95.45
28-1009                     95.06
28-1012                     95.06
28-1013                     95.06
Chapter 28, art. 11         111.22
28-1101                     134.03
28-1102                     134.03
28-1103                     134.03
28-1104                     134.03
28-1107                     134.03
28-1108                     134.03
28-1109                     134.03
28-1110                     134.03
28-1111                     134.03
28-1112                     134.03
28-1113                     134.03
28-1117                     134.03
Chapter 28, art. 12         111.22
28-1233(3)                  92.50
28-1241                     92.35
28-1241(7)                  92.36
28-1244                     92.36
28-1245                     92.36
28-1246                     92.38
28-1247                     92.36,
                            92.38
28-1249                     92.38
28-1303                     133.07
28-1304                     133.03
                            93.16,
                            93.45 -
28-1321                     93.47,
                            130.03,
                            133.01
28-1322                     131.02
28-1418                     133.25,
                            133.31
28-1419                     133.25
28-1427                     133.25
28-1465                     32.081
28-1466                     32.081
28-1472                     32.081
28-1601                     134.03
29-215                      32.081
29-422 to 29-429            95.06
Chapter 29, article 8       95.26
29-4001.01                  134.20
29-4003                     134.20
31-1001 to 31-1022          156.01
32-101                      30.15,
                            Ch. 34
32-109                      30.02,
                            30.15
32-110                      34.03
32-115                      34.03
32-404                      34.01,
                            34.05
32-405                      34.04
32-533                      30.01,
                            30.15
32-552                      30.15
32-553                      30.15
32-554                      30.15
32-556                      34.01
32-557                      30.15,
                            34.09
32-559                      34.04
                            30.03,
32-560                      30.18,
                            30.19
32-560 through 32-572       30.03,
                            30.18
32-561                      30.03,
                            30.18
32-562                      34.10
32-567 through 32-570       34.10
32-568                      30.03,
                            30.18
32-569                      30.18
32-603                      30.02,
                            30.15
32-604                      30.15
32-606                      34.07
32-607                      34.07
32-608                      34.08,
                            34.09
32-615                      34.09
32-616                      34.09
32-617                      34.09
32-618                      34.09
32-622                      34.07
32-625                      34.07
32-625(2)                   34.09
32-627                      34.07,
                            34.09
32-628                      34.09
32-628 through 32-631       35.53
32-629                      34.09,
                            34.10
32-630                      34.09,
                            34.10
32-710                      34.09
32-802                      34.02,
                            35.53
32-952 through 32-959       34.04
32-1301                     34.10
32-1302                     34.10
32-1303                     34.10
32-1304                     34.10
32-1305                     34.10
32-1306                     34.10
32-1307                     34.10
                            30.03,
32-1308                     30.18,
                            34.10
32-1309                     34.10
32-1525                     34.11
Chapter 37                  73.20
37-1254.01                  32.081
37-1254.02                  32.081
39-301                      131.21
39-302                      131.21
39-307                      133.04
39-618                      71.009
39-622                      71.058
39-629                      71.080
39-638                      71.061
39-643                      71.063
39-650                      71.040
39-669                      71.077
39-669.01                   71.075
39-669.02                   71.075
39-669.03 through 39-669.06 71.076
39-669.26                   71.075,
                            71.078
39-672                      92.21
39-683                      131.23
39-689                      72.25
                            71.008,
39-697                      71.058,
                            71.063,
                            71.080
39-2512                     94.01
45-104.01                   94.79
45-601 through 45-622       35.13
45-623                      35.13
46-1212                     94.35
48-1503                     35.02
49-801(16)                  10.05
49-1408                     33.46
49-1425                     33.46
49-1499.03                  33.46
49-1499.04                  33.46
49-14,102                   33.46
49-14,103.01                33.46
49-14,103.02                33.46
49-14,103.03                33.46
49-14,103.04                33.46
49-14,103.05                33.46
49-14,103.06                33.46
51-201                      35.53,
                            90.01
51-201 to 51-219            32.001
51-201 through 51-219       90.02
51-201.01                   90.06
51-202                      32.001
51-204                      32.001
51-205                      90.02
51-206                      90.05
51-207                      90.02,
                            90.12
51-209                      90.01
51-210                      90.03
                            90.02,
51-211                      90.03,
                            90.06
51-212                      90.06
51-213                      90.08
51-214                      90.09
51-215                      35.08,
                            90.10
51-216                      35.08,
                            90.04
51-501                      35.53
53-103.01 through 53-103.42 111.01,
                            133.29
53-103.23                   133.28
53-116.01                   111.24
53-118                      111.47
53-123.04(3)                133.30
53-123.11(1)(c)             133.30
53-124                      111.23,
                            111.26
53-124.01                   111.23
53-124.12                   111.26
53-124.15                   111.45
53-125                      111.22
53-131                      111.23
53-132                      111.23
53-133                      111.23,
                            111.45
53-134                      111.23
                            111.23,
53-134.03                   111.47,
                            111.51
53-134.04                   111.30
53-135                      111.25
53-135.01                   111.22
53-148                      111.27
53-167.02                   111.52
53-167.03                   111.52
53-168.06                   111.20
53-175                      111.21
53-177                      111.45
53-177.01                   111.45
53-178                      111.46
53-179                      111.48
53-180                      111.02
53-180.01                   133.28
53-180.02                   133.29
53-180.05                   133.28
53-183                      111.49
53-184                      111.50
53-186                      111.03
53-186(2)                   111.03
53-194.03                   111.21
53-1,101                    111.28
53-1,102                    111.29
53-1,115                    111.30
53-1,121                    111.04
53-401 through 53-409       133.29
54-601                      95.43
54-603                      95.40
54-603(3)                   95.40
54-605                      95.41
54-606                      95.43
54-617                      95.45
54-618                      95.45
54-619                      95.45
54-620                      95.45
54-621                      95.45
54-622.01                   95.45
54-623                      95.45
55-133                      70.01
56-602                      95.43
57-901 through 57-922       153.03
54-907 through 54-912       95.07
54-911                      95.07
54-912                      95.07
Chapter 60                  73.20
60,146                      71.057
60,151                      71.056
60,160                      71.041
60-169                      98.02
60,613                      71.055
                            35.56,
60-301                      73.07,
                            133.45
60-311.14                   73.46,
                            73.47
60-348                      133.49
60-357                      133.49
60-376                      133.45,
                            133.46
60-462                      70.07
60-645                      133.49
60-4,126                    72.02
60-4,163                    32.081
60-4,164                    32.081
60,6132-36                  71.059
60,6132-36                  71.060
60-601                      Chapter 70
60-606 through 60-676       70.01
60-607                      70.01
60-610                      70.01
60-613                      70.01
60-624                      70.01,
                            71.082
60-631                      70.01
60-638                      70.01
60-646                      70.01
60-654                      70.01
60-656                      70.01
60-658.01                   70.01
60-661                      70.01
60-669                      70.01
60-670                      70.01
60-671                      70.01
60-672                      70.01
60-676                      70.01
60-678                      70.02
                            70.03,
60-680                      Chapter 71;
                            73.01
60-681                      70.04
60-682                      70.99
60-683                      70.07
60-684 through 60-694.01    70.99
                            70.99,
                            71.041,
                            71.055 -
60-689                      71.057,
                            71.059,
                            71.060,
                            71.062,
                            71.079
60-699                      72.04
60-6,108                    70.05
60-6,110                    70.08
60-6,114                    70.10
60-6,118                    70.01
60-6,119                    70.09
60-6,121                    70.06
60-6,129                    71.003
60-6,130                    71.004
60-6,130(1)                 133.47
60-6,130(3)                 133.48
60-6,138                    71.001
60-6,142                    71.062,
                            72.24
60-6,148                    71.002
60-6,161-63                 71.041
60-6,164                    73.02
60-6,165                    73.66
60-6,166                    73.03,
                            73.18
60-6,167                    73.10
60-6,168                    73.12
60-6,169                    71.079
60-6,185                    71.020
60-6,186                    71.021
60-6,187                    71.021,
                            71.023
60-6,188                    71.021
60-6,189                    71.021
60-6,190                    71.023
60-6,196                    32.081
60-6,196(1)(b)              71.083
60-6,196(1)(c)              71.083
60-6,197                    32.081
60-6,201                    71.083
60-6,203                    71.083
60-6,211.01                 32.081,
                            71.083
60-6,211.02                 32.081,
                            71.083
60-6,211.08                 111.03,
                            133.30
60-6,250                    71.005
60-6,265                    71.081
60-6,267                    71.081
60-6,268                    71.081
60-6,279                    71.082
60-6,282                    71.082
60-6,288                    71.005
60-6,288 to 60-6,290        70.10
60-6,294                    70.10
60-6,305                    71.021,
                            71.023
60-6,313                    71.021,
                            71.023
60-6,315                    72.24
60-6,317                    72.24
60-6,318                    72.24
60-6,355                    72.01
60-6,356                    72.02
60-1901                     133.45
60-1902                     133.45
60-1903                     98.02,
                            133.45
60-1903.01                  133.45
60-1904                     133.45
60-1905                     133.45
60-1906                     133.45
60-1907                     133.45
60-1908                     133.45
60-1909                     133.45
60-1911                     133.45
60-2002                     72.40
60-2013                     72.40,
                            72.41
60-2015                     72.41
60-2016                     72.42
60-2807                     72.04
60-2808                     72.99
70-504                      34.45
70-624.04                   33.46
70-1601                     50.01
70-1601 through 70-1615     50.04
70-1602                     50.03
70-1605                     50.03
70-1606                     50.03
70-1607                     50.03
70-1608 through 70-1614     50.03
70-1615                     50.03
70-2103                     130.02
71-1524 through 71-1526     32.007
71-1552                     32.007
71-4401                     95.20
71-4402                     95.21
71-4404                     95.21
71-4405                     95.21
71-4406                     95.22
71-4407                     95.23
71-4408                     95.09,
                            95.24
71-4410                     95.26
71-4411                     95.24
71-4412                     95.26
                            98.02,
71-4603                     131.07 ,
                            133.49
71-5301                     51.028
71-5301.01                  51.028
71-6406                     150.005
Chapter 72, article 14      94.32
73-101 et seq.              35.02
75-323                      112.01
75-414                      115.01
76-704 through 76-724       90.03
76-2301 through 76-2330     53.10
77-1343                     94.84
77-1601                     35.55
77-1601.02                  35.55
77-1606                     35.53,
                            35.55
77-1702                     35.14
77-2201                     31.07
77-2201 through 77-2215     31.07
77-2202                     31.07
77-2209                     31.07
77-2210                     31.07
77-2212                     31.07
77-2337                     35.08
77-2341                     35.11
77-2362                     35.09
77-2363                     35.09
77-2364                     35.09
77-2365.01                  35.09,
                            35.10
77-2366                     35.09,
                            35.10
77-2386                     35.09
                            35.53,
77-3442                     90.01,
                            90.25
77-3443                     35.53,
                            90.01
77-3444                     34.04,
                            35.53
81-145 through 81-162       35.02
81-502                      92.01
81-512                      92.03
81-520.01                   92.09
81-829.65                   32.081
81-1438                     31.01,
                            31.10
81-1439 through 81-1446     31.10
81-2101 through 81-2145     53.11
81-3423                     94.35
81-3445                     94.35
81-3449                     94.35
81-3453                     94.35
81-3538                     150.84
84-712 et seq.              10.16
84-712 through 84-712.09    31.06,
                            31.07
84-712(2)                   31.06
84-1201 through 84-1220     31.06
84-1201 to 84-1220          31.06
84-1408                     33.02
84-1409                     33.01,
                            33.07
84-1410                     33.10,
                            33.11
                            33.02,
84-1411                     33.03,
                            33.05 -
                            33.09
84-1412                     33.12
84-1413                     33.14,
                            33.15
                            
 
REFERENCES TO 1992 CODE
1992 Code Section 2012 Code Section
1992 Code Section 2012 Code Section
1-101             30.01
1-102             30.16
1-103             30.15
1-104             30.20
1-105             30.18
1-106             30.03
1-201             31.01
1-202             31.02
1-203             31.06
1-204             31.07
1-205             31.03
1-207             31.04
1-208             31.07
1-209             31.07
1-210             31.08
1-211             31.13
1-212             31.09
1-213             31.10
1-214             31.11
1-215             31.12
1-216             31.12
1-217             94.01
1-218             31.15
1-219             31.17
1-301             33.30
1-302             33.31
1-401             11.01
1-501             33.01
1-502             33.01
1-503             33.02
1-504             33.10,
                  33.11
1-505             33.06
1-506             33.15
1-507             33.14
1-508             33.03
1-509             33.12
1-510             33.13
1-511             33.16
1-512             33.16
1-513             33.04
1-514             33.05
1-601             30.45
1-602             30.48
1-603             30.48
1-604             30.49
1-605             30.50
1-606             30.51
1-607             30.52
1-608             30.53
1-801             35.30
1-801.01          35.01
1-802             35.33
1-803             35.34
1-804             35.35,
                  94.30
1-804.01          35.32
1-805             35.31
1-806             35.36
1-807             35.52
1-810             35.52
1-811             35.52
1-812             35.54
1-813             35.04
1-814             35.02
1-815             35.03
1-816             35.05
1-817             35.04
1-818             35.07
1-819             35.08
1-820             35.09
1-821             35.11
1-822             35.12
1-823             35.56
1-824             35.15
1-825             35.06,
                  35.55
1-901             33.45
1-902             33.45
1-903             33.46
2-101             32.001
2-102             32.007
2-103             32.002
2-104             32.006
2-105             32.003
2-106             32.004
2-107             32.005
2-108             32.008
2-109             96.01
2-110             96.02
2-111             96.02
2-112             96.02
2-113             96.15
2-114             96.16
2-115             96.17
2-116             96.18
2-117             96.19
2-118             96.20
2-119             96.21
2-120             96.22
3-101             50.07
3-102             50.03
3-103             50.05
3-104             50.06
3-105             50.02
3-106             54.03
3-107             50.01
3-201             32.040
3-202             51.001
3-203             51.016
3-204             51.017
3-205             51.019
3-206             51.020
3-207             51.021
3-208             51.022
3-209             51.023
3-210             51.900
3-211             51.901
3-213             51.902
3-214             51.024
3-215             51.903
3-216             51.025
3-217             51.002
3-218             51.015
3-219             51.018
3-220             51.904
3-221             51.026
3-222             51.028
3-223             51.027
3-301             32.041
3-302             52.001
3-303             52.015
3-304             52.016
3-305             52.017
3-306             52.080
3-307             52.081
3-308             52.082
3-309             52.083
3-310             52.084
3-311             52.085
3-312             52.040
3-313             52.041
3-314             52.060
3-315             52.061
3-316             52.062
3-317             52.063
3-318             52.064
3-319             52.065
3-320             52.066
3-321             52.018
3-322             52.019
3-323             52.020
3-324             52.021
3-325             52.022
3-326             52.023
3-327             52.024
3-328             52.025
3-329             52.026
3-330             52.027
3-331             52.028
3-332             52.029
3-333             52.042
3-334             52.043
3-335             52.044
3-336             52.045
3-337             52.046
3-338             52.047
3-339             52.048
3-340             52.049
3-341             52.100
3-342             52.101
3-343             51.030,
                  52.102
3-344             52.103
3-345             52.104
3-401             32.042
3-402             53.02
3-403             53.03
3-404             53.05
3-405             53.06
3-406             53.08
3-407             53.12
3-408             53.35
3-409             53.36
3-410             53.38
3-411             53.20
3-412             53.12
3-413             53.21
3-414             53.22
3-415             53.39
3-416             53.23
3-417             53.07
3-501             32.080
3-502             32.080
3-503             32.083
3-504             32.081
3-602             90.12
3-604             90.11
3-605             90.06
3-606             90.01
3-701             90.25
3-702             90.26
3-801             32.055
3-802             32.056
3-803             32.057
3-804             32.058
3-805             32.059
3-806             32.060
3-807             32.058
3-808             32.061
3-809             32.062
3-810             32.063
3-811             32.064
3-812             32.065
3-813             32.066
3-814             32.067
3-815             32.068
3-901             90.40
3-1001            91.01
3-1002            91.02
4-101             93.01
4-102             93.02
4-201             54.01
4-202             54.02
4-204             54.05
4-205             54.06
4-206             54.07
4-207             54.08
4-208             54.09
4-209             54.10
4-210             54.01
4-211             54.01,
                  54.11
4-212             54.12
4-302             93.15
4-303             93.16
4-305             91.17
4-306             91.18
4-401             93.30
4-402             93.31
4-403             93.32
4-404             93.33
4-405             93.34
4-501             93.45
4-502             93.46
4-503             93.47
4-601             98.01
4-602             98.02
4-603             98.03
4-604             98.04
4-605             98.05
4-606             98.06
4-607             98.07
4-608             98.08
4-609             98.09
4-610             98.10
4-611             98.11
4-612             98.12
4-613             98.13
4-614             98.14
4-615             98.15
4-616             98.16
4-617             98.99
5-101             70.01
5-201             71.006
5-202             71.008
5-203             71.041,
                  71.999
5-204             71.040
5-205             71.041,
                  71.999
5-206             71.057,
                  71.999
5-207             71.058
5-208             71.056,
                  71.999
5-209             71.059,
                  71.999
5-210             71.061
5-211             71.007
5-212             71.002
5-213             71.002
5-215             131.23
5-216             71.004
5-217             71.009
5-218             71.024
5-219             71.063
5-220             71.055,
                  71.999
5-221             71.060,
                  71.999
5-222             71.058
5-223             71.004
5-224             71.075
5-225             71.076
5-226             71.077
5-227             71.078
5-228             71.079,
                  71.999
5-229             71.080
5-230             70.15
5-232             71.081
5-233             71.082,
                  71.999
5-234             71.062,
                  71.999
5-301             70.12
5-302             70.13
5-303             70.14
5-304             70.11
5-401             73.10  
5-402             73.16
5-403             73.01
5-404             73.17
5-405             73.17
5-406             73.18
5-407             73.19
5-409             73.04
5-410             73.13
5-411             73.06
5-412             73.46
5-413             73.47
5-414             73.45
5-420             73.48
5-420.01          73.49
5-421             73.08
5-422             73.66
5-423             73.15
5-424             73.14
5-501             73.31
5-502             73.66
5-503             73.32
5-601             72.01
5-602             72.02
5-607             72.04
5-608             72.99
5-701             72.40
5-702             72.41
5-703             72.42
5-801             72.20
5-802             72.21
5-803             72.22
5-804             72.23
5-805             72.24
5-901             70.99
6-101             95.01
6-102             95.46
6-103             95.46
6-104             95.40
6-105             95.40
6-107             95.49
6-108             95.25
6-110             95.47,
                  95.99
6-111             95.11
6-112             95.04
6-113             95.44,
                  95.99
6-114             95.43
6-115             95.42
6-116             95.22
6-121             95.45
6-122             95.45,
                  95.99
6-123             95.45
6-124             95.45
6-201             95.02
6-202             95.03
6-203             95.12
6-205             95.06
6-207             95.06
6-208             95.08
6-209             95.08
6-210             95.08
6-301             132.04
6-302             132.05
6-303             132.07
6-304             132.06
6-305             131.02
6-306             133.01
6-307             133.04
6-308             133.02
6-309             133.05
6-311             133.60
6-312             133.61
6-313             130.04
6-314             131.01
6-316             133.30
6-317             133.06
6-318             133.29
6-319             133.31
6-320             133.26
6-321             132.02
6-322             134.03
6-323             134.01
6-324             130.06
6-325             130.07
6-326             130.08
6-327             132.08
6-328             131.03
6-329             132.09
6-330             131.04
6-331             131.23
6-332             133.08
6-333             131.05
6-334             134.04
6-335             134.05
6-336             132.03
6-337             131.24
6-338             131.23
6-339             131.06
6-341             133.09
6-342             133.47
6-343             133.48
6-344             130.09
6-345             130.03
6-346             133.07
6-348             133.75
6-349             133.76
6-350             133.77
7-101             92.20
7-105             92.21
7-201             92.01
7-202             92.02
7-203             92.03
7-204             92.04
7-205             92.05
7-206             92.06
7-207             92.07
7-208             92.08
7-209             92.09
7-301             92.35
7-302             92.36
7-303             92.38
7-402             92.50
8-101             94.01
8-102             94.03
8-103             94.04
8-104             94.31
8-105             94.04
8-106             91.19,
                  94.19
8-107             94.32
8-108             94.17
8-109             94.18
8-110             94.13
8-111             94.34
8-112             94.33
8-201             94.50
8-203             94.51
8-204             94.53
8-205             94.53
8-206             94.52
8-207             94.53
8-208             94.54
8-301             94.71
8-302             94.70
8-303             94.68
8-304             94.73
8-305             94.74
8-306             94.75
8-307             94.76
8-308             94.10
8-309             94.16
8-310             94.78
8-311             94.07
8-312             94.79
8-313             94.80
8-314             94.81
8-315             94.82
8-316             94.83
8-317             94.84
8-318             94.72
8-401             94.15
9-101             150.080
9-102             150.081
9-103             150.082
9-104             150.083
9-105             150.004
9-201             150.001
9-202             150.002
9-203             150.003
9-301             150.020
9-302             150.021
9-801             153.01
9-802             153.02
9-803             153.15
9-804             153.16
9-805             153.45
9-806             153.46
9-807             153.47
9-808             153.48
9-809             153.49
9-810             153.17
9-811             153.50
9-812             153.51
9-813             153.18
9-814             153.19
9-815             153.20
9-816             153.21
9-817             153.22
9-818             153.23
9-819             153.24
9-820             153.25
9-821             153.26
9-822             153.27
9-823             153.28
9-824             153.29
9-825             153.30
9-826             153.31
9-827             153.32
9-828             153.33
9-829             153.65
9-830             153.66
9-831             153.67
9-832             153.68
9-833             153.69
9-834             153.70
9-835             153.03
9-901             152.01
9-902             152.02
9-903             152.03
9-904             152.04
10-201            113.01
10-203            113.02
10-204            113.03
10-301            112.01
10-302            112.02
10-303            112.03
10-304            112.04
10-305            112.05
10-307            112.06
10-308            112.07
10-309            112.08
10-310            112.09
10-501            151.001
10-502            151.015
10-503            151.016
10-504            151.017
10-505            151.018
10-506            151.100
10-507            151.101
10-508            151.102
10-509            151.103
10-510            151.104
10-511            151.105
10-512            151.030
10-513            151.031
10-514            151.032
10-515            151.033
10-516            151.034
10-517            151.035
10-518            151.050
10-519            151.051
10-520            151.052
10-521            151.053
10-522            151.054
10-523            151.055
10-524            151.056
10-525            151.057
10-526            151.058
10-527            151.059
10-528            151.060
10-529            151.036
10-530            151.037
10-531            151.038
10-532            151.039
10-533            151.075
10-534            151.087
10-801            115.01
10-802            115.02
10-901            97.01
10-902            97.02
10-903            97.03
10-904            97.04
10-905            97.05
10-906            97.06
10-907            97.07
10-1001           114.02
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.      Date Passed Code Section
321           10-2-1973   98.16
423           2-5-1991    73.14
442           4-21-1992   114.02
448           11-17-1992  51.026
449           12-1-1992   32.002
                          54.01,
450           3-16-1993   54.11,
                          54.12
463           10-19-1993  114.02
467           11-16-1993  35.15
462           12-7-1993   112.01
469           12-7-1993   33.10,
                          33.11
470           12-7-1993   33.01
471           12-7-1993   31.06
472           12-7-1993   73.48
477           7-19-1994   32.002
478           8-16-1994   133.04
479           - -         35.33
481           - -         35.36
482           - -         71.057,
                          71.999
484           - -         72.24
485           - -         72.02
486           - -         73.10  
487           - -         73.46
488           - -         73.47
489           - -         73.45
491           - -         73.48
492           - -         73.49
494           - -         94.30,
                          94.31
495           - -         114.01
                          54.01,
497           11-22-1994  54.04,
                          54.11
498           5-16-1995   95.48
501           11-21-1995  33.10,
                          33.11
502           11-21-1995  30.49
503           11-21-1995  35.01
504           11-21-1995  35.32
505           11-21-1995  32.002
506           11-21-1995  32.081
507           11-21-1995  91.18
508           11-21-1995  54.01
509           11-21-1995  133.06
510           11-21-1995  92.09
511           11-21-1995  94.34
512           11-21-1995  94.33
524           9-16-1997   73.66
527           3-17-1998   31.01
528           3-17-1998   33.07
529           3-17-1998   30.45
531           3-17-1998   30.49
532           3-17-1998   30.50
533           3-17-1998   30.52
534           3-17-1998   30.53
536           3-17-1998   35.33
537           3-17-1998   35.35
538           3-17-1998   35.06
539           3-17-1998   35.55
541           3-17-1998   50.03
542           3-17-1998   73.46
543           3-17-1998   73.47
544           3-17-1998   73.45
550           3-17-1998   73.49
551           3-17-1998   73.48
557           7-27-1998   32.020 -
                          32.026
558           1-19-1999   92.07,
                          92.08
559           5-4-1999    71.084
                          131.40 -
560           7-6-1999    131.46,
                          131.99
566           11-16-1999  71.083
567           11-16-1999  73.46
568           11-16-1999  150.84
570           11-16-1999  54.03
571           11-16-1999  50.01
                          151.075,
575           2-22-2000   151.076 -
                          151.086
576           2-22-2000   71.079,
                          71.999
577           2-22-2000   95.44,
                          95.99
578           2-22-2000   70.99
579           2-22-2000   95.47,
                          95.99
580           2-22-2000   71.041,
                          71.999
581           2-22-2000   71.002
582           2-22-2000   71.055,
                          71.999
583           2-22-2000   71.060,
                          71.999
584           2-22-2000   71.059,
                          71.999
585           2-22-2000   71.062,
                          71.999
587           2-22-2000   71.082,
                          71.999
588           2-22-2000   133.08,
                          133.99
589           2-22-2000   134.04,
                          134.99
590           2-22-2000   95.45,
                          95.99
592           2-22-2000   71.057,
                          71.999
593           2-22-2000   71.056,
                          71.999
594           2-22-2000   98.99
                          131.40 -
598           2-6-2001    131.46,
                          131.99
602           6-19-2001   71.081
603           6-19-2001   35.33
605           6-19-2001   33.08
607           1-22-2002   154.02
608           6-4-2002    51.027
611           6- -2003    154.01
613           10-21-2003  110.01
623           5-17-2005   51.050 -
                          51.059
629           3-22-2006   96.18
633           11-1-2006   73.66
635           6-6-2007    92.39
639           10-3-2007   32.020 -
                          32.026
                          72.01 -
643           8-26-2008   72.05,
                          72.99
648           11-19-2008  51.003
651           5-6-2009    93.04,
                          93.99
                          116.01 -
652           8-19-2009   116.24,
                          116.99
655           8-19-2009   73.66
654           10-7-2009   94.55,
                          94.99
660           1-20-2010   32.082
                          134.20 -
661           2-3-2010    134.24,
                          134.99
662           5-19-2010   32.020 -
                          32.025
                          72.01 -
665           11-17-2010  72.05,
                          72.99
                          156.01 -
                          156.09,
                          156.15 -
668           12-15-2010  156.18,
                          156.30 -
                          156.36,
                          156.99
671           1-19-2011   150.05
670           3-2-2011    110.20 -
                          110.26
                          155.01 -
672           7-6-2011    155.07,
                          155.99
673           7-6-2011    51.028
674           7-20-2011   95.02
675           8-3-2011    133.61
678           11-2-2011   32.080
628           11-16-2011  32.007
                          30.20,
679           11-16-2011  31.01,
                          33.04
680           3-21-2012   51.080 -
                          51.091
                          150.050 -
683           5-16-2012   150.062,
                          150.999
686           7-18-2012   33.04
692           2-5-2013    Adopting Ordinance
693           2-5-2013    33.04
695           4-22-2013   Repealing 31.05
696           7-2-2013    117.01 -
                          117.06
702           1-7-2014    30.02,
                          30.49
703           1-7-2014    94.15
704           1-7-2014    152.02
705           1-21-2014   32.001
                          51.001 -
                          51.003,
                          51.015 -
                          51.030,
706           2-18-2014   51.050 -
                          51.059,
                          51.080 - 51.092,
                          51.900 -
                          51.904
                          53.01 -
                          53.12,
712           8-5-2014    53.20 -
                          53.23,
                          53.35 -
                          53.40
723           5-19-2015   111.48
                          98.02,
724           6-2-2015    98.03,
                          98.08,
                          98.12
725           6-16-2015   Repealing 94.69
730           9-1-2015    94.11 -
                          94.14
732           1-5-2016    95.40
733           2-2-2016    33.04
736           8-16-2016   154.01
737           8-16-2016   95.48
                          93.19,
738           8-16-2016   94.19,
                          133.05
740           9-13-2016   32.007
741           1-17-2017   51.028
744           2-21-2017   31.04
749           8-15-2017   32.021
                          32.002,
751           9-12-2017   32.003,
                          32.005,
                          32.006
756           12-19-2017  32.005
757           12-19-2017  32.021
762           5-15-2018   134.21
766           10-16-2018  54.11
767           10-16-2018  90.27,
                          95.13
768           1-15-2019   93.15
770           2-19-2019   111.48
774           10-15-2019  114.02
775           10-28-2019  94.30
776           2-18-2020   32.009 -
                          32.015
                          72.01,
779           6-16-2020   72.03 -
                          72.06
780           7-21-2020   53.10
781           - -         32.021,
                          32.022
788           2-16-2021   31.18,
                          31.19
788 (amended) 5-15-2024   31.18,
                          31.19
789           6-15-2021   73.20
791           4-20-2021   32.069
792           6-15-2021   35.15
796           11-16-2021  154.01
797           11-16-2021  154.01
799           11-16-2021  131.07
800           1-4-2022    154.01
801           1-4-2022    134.03
802           12-7-2021   53.41,
                          94.01
805           7-19-2022   150.005
809           10-18-2022  95.44,
                          95.99
811           11-1-2022   133.60,
                          133.61
812           11-21-2022  154.02
813           2-7-2023    133.25
814           4-4-2023    133.49
824           8-15-2023   132.10
827           5-15-2024   31.02
828           6-18-2024   154.01
829           6-18-2024   154.03
                          150.035 -
                          150.040,
830           8-13-2024   150.095 -
                          150.108,
                          150.999
832           11-19-2024  95.14
                         
 
KIMBALL, NEBRASKA
ZONING REGULATIONS
Adopted by the City of Kimball, Nebraska June 18, 2024
This version redacted in part. Full text available at City Hall.
***** ORDINANCE NO. 828 *****
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF KIMBALL, NEBRASKA TO APPROVE AND ADOPT A ZONING
ORDINANCE FOR THE CITY OF KIMBALL, NEBRASKA, WHICH ORDINANCE IS INCORPORATED
FULLY HEREIN BY REFERENCE, INCLUDING THAT AREA WITHIN ONE-MILE OF THE CORPORATE
LIMITS.
WHEREAS, the City of Kimball Planning Commission have worked to develop a
comprehensive amendment of the Zoning Ordinance, in conformance
with Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-901 et seq.;
WHEREAS, the City of Kimball Planning Commission has duly held a Public
Hearing,
WHEREAS, the City of Kimball Planning Commission has made a recommendation for
adoption of the City of Kimball Zoning Ordinance to the City Council of
Kimball, Nebraska;
WHEREAS,
the City Council of Kimball, Nebraska, has held the required Public Hearing to
collect public input on the proposed comprehensive development plan;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL FOR THE CITY OF KIMBALL,
NEBRASKA:
That the City Council adopts Ordinance No. 828 incorporating the City of
Kimball Zoning Ordinance, including the extraterritorial jurisdiction extending
one-mile from the corporate limits of the City, as recommended by the City of
Kimball Planning Commission and after completion of the required Public
Hearings, with such Ordinance in full being attached hereto and incorporated
fully herein by reference;
And that all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
 
PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 18th DAY OF JUNE OF 2024
 
               [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/IMAGES/0-0-0-24.png]
(Seal)
City Clerk      
 
Article 1: Title and Purpose
Section 1.01 Title
   This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the Zoning
Ordinance of the City of Kimball, Nebraska.
Section 1.02 Purpose
   This ordinance has been made in accordance with a comprehensive plan and to
promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the community; to lessen
congestion in streets; to secure safety from fire and other dangers; to provide
adequate light and air; to promote the distribution of population, land
classifications and land development to support provisions for adequate
transportation, water flows, water supply, drainage, sanitation, recreation,
and other public requirements; to protect property against blight and
depreciation; and to secure economy in governmental expenditures.
Section 1.03  Comprehensive Plan Relationship
   This zoning ordinance is designed to implement various elements of the
comprehensive plan as required by state statutes. Any amendment to the district
ordinances or map shall conform to the comprehensive plan adopted by the
governing body.
Article 2: Definitions
Section 2.01   Rules
For the purpose of this ordinance, the following rules shall apply:
2.01.01   Words and numbers used singularly shall include the plural. Words and
numbers used in the plural shall include the singular. Words used in the
present tense shall include the future.
2.01.02   The word "persons" includes a corporation, members of a partnership
or other business organization, a committee, board, council, commission,
trustee, receiver, agent or other representative.
2.01.03   The word "shall" is mandatory. The word “may” is permissive.
2.01.04   The words "use", "used", "occupy" or "occupied" as applied to any
land or building shall be construed to include the words "intended", "arranged"
or "designed" to be used or occupied.
2.01.05   The word "commission" shall refer to the Planning Commission of Kimball,
Nebraska.
2.01.06   Undefined words or terms not herein defined shall have their ordinary meaning in relation to the
context.
2.01.07   In the case of any real or apparent conflict between the text of the Ordinance and any illustration
explaining the text, the text shall apply.
Section 2.02   Abbreviations and Acronyms
For purposes of this ordinance this section contains a listing of
abbreviations and acronyms used throughout this document.
ADA =   Americans with Disabilities Act
A.U. =   Animal Unit
CFR =   Code of Federal Regulations
DU =   Dwelling Unit
DNR=   Department of Natural Resources
DOD=   United States Department of Defense
FAA =    Federal Aviation Administration
FCC =   Federal Communication Commission 
FEMA = Federal Emergency Management Agency
FT =   Foot or Feet
HUD =   US Department of Housing and Urban Development
KV =    Kilovolt
KW =   Kilowatt
NDEE=   Nebraska Department of Environmental and Energy
NDOT=   Nebraska Department of Transportation
NEMA= Nebraska Emergency Management Agency 
NDHHS= Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services
NPDES = National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System 
NRCS = Natural Resources Conservation Service
SF =   Square Foot or Square Feet
SY =   Square Yard
USC =   United States Code
USACE = United States Army Corps of Engineers
USAF=   United States Air Force
USDA = United States Department of Agriculture
YD =   Yard
Section 2.03   Definitions
**** A ****
ABANDONMENT  shall mean to cease or discontinue a use or activity without
intent to resume as distinguished from short term interruptions such as during
periods of remodeling, maintenance, or normal periods of vacation or seasonal
closure.
ABUT or ADJACENT  shall mean to border on, be contiguous with or have common
property or district lines, including property separated by a public street or
alley.
Example of an accessory building
ACCESS or ACCESS WAY  shall mean the place, means, or way by which pedestrians
and vehicles shall have safe, adequate and usable ingress and egress to a
property or use as required by this Ordinance.
ACCESSORY BUILDING or STRUCTURE  shall mean a detached subordinate building or
structure located on the same lot with the principal building or structure, the
use of which is incidental and accessory to that of the principal
structure. Customary accessory buildings and structures include farm buildings,
garages, carports, and storage sheds but not portable storage containers.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-26.png]
 
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT  shall mean a separate, complete housekeeping unit with
a separate entrance, kitchen, sleeping area, and full bathroom facilities,
which is an attached or detached extension to an existing single-family
structure, also referred to as “Granny Flats”.
ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS  shall mean living quarters within an accessory
building located on the same premises with the main building, for use by
temporary guests of the occupant of the premises, such quarters having no
kitchen facilities and not rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling
unit.
ACCESSORY USE  shall mean a use incidental, related, appropriate and clearly
subordinate to the main use of the lot or building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-28.png]
 
ACREAGE  shall mean any tract or parcel of land, used for single-family
residential purposes, that does not qualify as a farm or farmstead.
ADVERSE EFFECT  shall mean a zoning ordinance or zoning decision that normally
has a material effect on neighboring properties or use of neighboring
properties including, but not limited to property values, rights of way,
easements, setbacks, or height and area of structures.
ADVERTISING STRUCTURE  shall mean any structure used as an outdoor display,
regardless of size and shape, for the purposes of making anything known, the
origin or place of sale of which is not on the property with such Advertising
Structure.
AGENT  shall mean any person showing written verification that he/she is acting
for, and with the knowledge and consent of, a property owner.
AGRICULTURAL  COOPERATIVE  PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION FACILITY:  shall mean any
facility owned and operated by a cooperative or other corporation for the
purpose of manufacturing, distributing, and storage of fertilizers, herbicides
and grain. This includes the offices, scales and parking areas necessary for
trucks and other vehicles.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-30.png]
 
Example of an Agricultural Cooperative Production/ Distribution Facility
AGRICULTURAL OR FARM BUILDINGS  shall mean any building or structure which is
necessary or incidental to the normal conduct of a farming operation, including
but not limited to, residence of hired persons, barns, buildings and sheds for
housing livestock, poultry and farm machinery, buildings for the storage or
shelter of grain, hay and other crops, silos, windmills and water storage
tanks.
AGRICULTURAL INDUSTRIES  shall mean establishments or uses engaged in the
large-scale storage or initial processing of agricultural products and supplies
that cannot be otherwise categorized as light, general, or heavy industries,
some of which may involve storage of potentially hazardous materials. Typical
uses include grain elevators and anhydrous ammonia storage facilities.
AGRICULTURAL SALES AND SERVICE  shall mean an establishments or places of
business engaged in sale from the premises of feed, grain, fertilizers, farm
equipment, pesticides and similar goods or in the provision of agriculturally
related services with incidental storage on lots other than where the service
is rendered. Typical uses include nurseries, hay, farm implement dealerships,
feed and grain stores, and tree service farms.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-32.png]
 
Example of an Agricultural Sales and Service
AGRICULTURE  shall mean the use of land for agricultural purposes, for
obtaining a profit by raising, harvesting, and selling crops or by the feeding,
breeding, management, and sale of, or the produce of, livestock, poultry, fur-
bearing animals, or honeybees, or for dairying and the sale of dairy products,
or any other agricultural or horticultural use.
ALLEY  shall mean a public or private thoroughfare which affords only a
secondary means of access to property abutting thereon.
ALTERATION  shall mean any change, addition or modification to the construction
or occupancy of an existing structure.
AMENDMENT  shall mean a change in the wording, context, or substance of this
Ordinance, or an addition, deletion or change in the district boundaries or
classifications upon the Official Zoning Map.
AMUSEMENT ARCADE  shall mean a building or a part of a building where five or
more pinball machines, video games, or other similar player-orientated
amusement devices are available and are maintained for use.
ANIMAL, DOMESTIC  see Household Pet.
ANIMAL GROOMING SERVICE:  shall mean any place or establishment, public or
private, where animals are bathed, clipped, or combed for the purpose of
enhancing their aesthetic value or health and for which a fee is charged.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL  shall mean a place where animals are given medical care and
the boarding of animals is limited to short-term care incidental to the
hospital use.
ANIMAL UNIT  shall mean any farming operation or the feeding,
farrowing, or raising cattle, swine, sheep, poultry, or other livestock, in a
confined area where grazing is not possible, and where the confined area is for
more than 6 months in any one calendar year, and where the number of animals so
maintained exceeds 300 Animal Units as defined below. The confined area of the
Livestock Feeding Operation (LFO) shall include the pens, corrals, sheds,
buildings, feed storage areas, waste disposal ponds, and related
facilities. Such facilities shall be constructed and operated in conformance
with applicable county, state, and federal regulations. Two or more LFO's under
common ownership are deemed to be a single LFO if they are adjacent to each
other or if they utilize a common area of system for the disposal of livestock
wastes. Animal Units (A.U.) are defined as follows:
One (1) A.U. = One Cow/Calf combination;
One (1) A.U. = One Slaughter, Feeder Cattle;
One (1) A.U. = One-half Horse;
One (1) A.U. = Seven Tenths Mature Dairy Cattle;
One (1) A.U. = Two and One Half Swine (55 lbs. or more);
One (1) A.U. = Twenty-Five Weaned Pigs (less than 55 lbs.);
One (1) A.U. = Two Sows with Litters;
One (1) A.U. = Ten Sheep;
One (1) A.U. = One Hundred Chickens;
One (1) A.U. = Fifty Turkeys;
One (1) A.U. = Five Ducks.
ANTENNA  shall mean any attached or external system of wires, poles, rods,
reflecting disks or similar devices used for the transmission or reception of
electromagnetic waves. Also, see Satellite Dish Antenna and Tower.
ANTIQUE SHOPS  shall mean a place offering primarily antiques for sale. An
antique for the purpose of this ordinance shall be a work of art, piece of
furniture, decorative object, or the like, that is at least 30 years old.
APARTMENT  shall mean a room or a suite of rooms within an apartment building
or multiple family dwelling arranged, intended or designed as a place of
residence for a single family or group of individuals living together as a
single housekeeping unit, including culinary accommodations.
APARTMENT COMPLEX  shall mean a building or
buildings containing apartments used as a place of residence for more than two
households.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-34.png]
 
APARTMENT HOUSE  see Dwelling, Multiple.
APIARY  a place where bee colonies are kept.
APPLICANT  shall mean the owner or duly designated representative of land
proposed to be subdivided, or for which a special use permit, conditional use
permit, temporary use permit, zoning amendment, variance, appeal, building
permit, or certificate of occupancy and other similar administrative permits
has been requested. Consent shall be required from the legal owner or his legal
representative in writing except for building permits.
APPROPRIATE  shall mean fitting the context of the site and the whole
community.
APPURTENANCES  shall mean the visible, functional objects accessory to and part
of buildings.
AQUACULTURE  shall mean land and/or buildings devoted to the hatching, raising,
and breeding of fish or other aquatic plants or animals for sale or personal
use.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-36.png]
 
Example of Aquaculture
Source: www.bing.com
ARBORIST  shall mean an individual trained in arboriculture, forestry,
landscape architecture, horticulture, or related fields and experienced in the
conservation and preservation of native and ornamental trees.
ARTISAN PRODUCTION SHOP  shall mean a building or portion thereof used for the
creation of original handmade works of art or craft items by more than three
but less than six artists or artisans, as either a principal or accessory use.
ARTIST STUDIO  shall mean a place designed to be used, or used as, both a
dwelling place and a place of work by an artist, artisan, or craftsperson,
including persons engaged in the application, teaching, or performance of fine
arts such as, but not limited to, drawing, vocal or instrumental music,
painting, sculpture, and writing.
ATTACHED  shall mean a foundation, wall or roof of a building or structure
which is connected to and supported by the foundation, wall, or roof of another
building or structure.
ATTACHED PERMANENTLY  shall mean attached to real estate in such a way as to
require dismantling, cutting away, unbolting from permanent foundation or
structural change in such structure in order to relocate it to another site.
AUTO BODY REPAIR  shall mean the repair, painting, or refinishing of the body,
fender, or frame of automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, motor homes, recreational
vehicles, boats, tractors, construction equipment, agricultural implements, and
similar vehicles or equipment. Typical uses include body and fender shops,
painting shops, and other similar repair or refinishing garages.
AUTO SERVICES  shall mean the provision of fuel, lubricants, parts and
accessories, and incidental services to motor vehicles; and washing and
cleaning and/or repair of automobiles, noncommercial trucks, motorcycles, motor
homes, recreational vehicles, or boats, including the sale, installation, and
servicing of equipment and parts. Typical uses include service stations, car
washes, muffler shops, auto repair garages, tire sales and installation, wheel
and brake shops, but excluding dismantling, salvage, or body and fender repair
services.
AUTOMATIC TELLER MACHINE (ATM)  shall mean an automated device that performs
banking or financial functions at a location remote from the controlling
financial institution.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-38.png]
 
AUTOMOBILE RENTAL AND SALES  shall mean sale or rental of automobiles,
noncommercial trucks, motorcycles, motor homes, recreational vehicles or boats,
including incidental storage, maintenance, and servicing. Typical uses include
new and used car dealerships; motorcycle dealerships; and boat, trailer, and
recreational vehicle dealerships.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD  shall mean any lot, or the use of any portion of a
lot, for the dismantling or wrecking of automobiles, tractors, farm machinery,
or other motor vehicles, or
for the storage or keeping for sale of parts and equipment resulting from such
dismantling or wrecking.
AUTOMOTIVE AND MACHINERY REPAIR SHOP  shall mean a building used for the repair
of motor vehicles or machinery, when such repair shall be wholly within a
completely enclosed building. This definition also includes body repair and
painting.
AUTOMOTIVE SALES AREA  shall mean an open area, other than a street, used for
display or sale of new or used motor vehicles and trailers by one required to
be licensed as a motor vehicle dealer by the State of Nebraska, and where no
repair work is done except minor incidental repair of motor vehicles or
trailers to be displayed and sold on the premises.
**** B ****
BAR  shall mean any establishment whose principal business is serving alcoholic
beverages at retail for consumption on the premises. Also, see Nightclub and
Tavern.
BARN  shall mean an accessory structure upon a lot customarily used for the
housing of livestock or for the storage of crops or machinery used in bona fide
agricultural activities.
BARN, POLE  shall mean a nonresidential structure where wooden post and beam
act as the main structural support for roof and walls. No concrete/masonry
support un-der posts; walls and roof covered with metal skin.
BASE FLOOD  shall mean the flood, from whatever source, having a one percent
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year, otherwise referred to as
the 100-year flood.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION  shall mean that elevation, expressed in
feet above mean sea level, to which flooding can be expected to occur on a
frequency of once in every 100 years, or which is subject to a one percent or
greater chance of flooding in any given year.
BASE ZONING DISTRICT  shall mean a district established by this
Ordinance that prescribes basic regulations governing land use and site
development standards.
BASEMENT  shall mean the substructure or foundation of a building, the lowest
habitable story of a building, usually below ground level. A
basement used for independent dwelling or business purposes shall be considered
a story for the purposes of height measurement.
BEACON  shall mean any light with one or more beams directed into the
atmosphere or directed at one or more points not on the same zone lot as the
light source; also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
BED AND BREAKFAST INN  shall mean a dwelling that is used for the purpose of
offering overnight lodging and meals to travelers for a fee which dwelling has
unique structural and/or site characteristics which create the appearance of an
Inn type setting. Such dwelling shall
have a maximum of six guest rooms available for travelers lodging and no more
than 12 guests may stay at any time. Guests who stay at the bed and breakfast
shall not remain for a period of more than 30 consecutive days.
BEDROOM  shall mean a room within a dwelling unit planned and intended for
sleeping, separable from other rooms by a door.
BEER GARDEN  shall mean a permanent establishment which includes any area out-
of-doors and not completely contained within a building in which alcoholic
beverages or food is served.
BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION  shall mean that site grading is the beginning of
construction.
BERM  shall mean a raised form of earth to provide screening or to improve the
aesthetic character.
BEST INTERESTS OF COMMUNITY  shall mean interests of the community at large and
not the interest of the immediate neighborhood.
BLOCK  shall mean a parcel of land platted into lots and bounded by public
streets or by waterways, rights-of-way, non-platted land, City or County
boundaries, or adjoining property lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-40.png]
 
Example of a Block
BLOCK FRONTAGE  shall mean that section of a block fronting on a street between
two intersecting streets or another block boundary.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-42.png]
Example of Block Frontage
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT  shall mean that Board created by the City Council, and
which has the statutory authority to hear and determine appeals from,
interpretations of, and variances to the zoning ordinance.
BOARDING OR ROOMING HOUSE  shall mean a building other than a hotel or motel
but containing a single dwelling unit and provisions for three but not more
than 20 guests, where lodging is provided with or without meals for
compensation.
BREEZEWAY: shall mean a roofed open passage connecting two otherwise detached
buildings. Breezeway connections shall not be construed to alter the detached
status of the buildings so connected.
BREW-ON PREMISES STORE  shall mean a facility that provides the ingredients and
equipment for a customer to use to brew malt liquor at the store. Brew-on-
premises stores do not include the sale of intoxicating liquor, unless the
owner of the brew-on-premises store holds the appropriate liquor license.
BREW PUB  shall mean a restaurant or hotel which includes the brewing of beer
as an accessory use. The brewing operation processes water, malt, hops, and
yeast into beer or ale by mashing, cooking, and fermenting. By definition,
these establishments produce no more than 10,000 barrels of beer or ale
annually. The area, by definition, used for brewing, including bottling and
kegging shall not exceed 25 percent of the total floor area of the commercial
space. Also see Brewery, Craft.
BREWERY  shall mean a facility for brewing ales, beers, meads and/or similar
beverages on site. Breweries are classified as a use manufacturing more than
20,000 barrels of beverage (all beverages combined) annually.
BREWERY, CRAFT  shall mean a brew pub or a micro-brewery.
BREWERY, MICRO  shall mean a facility for the production and packaging of malt
beverages of low alcoholic content for distribution, retail or wholesale, on or
off premises, with a capacity of not more than 20,000 barrels per year. The
development may include other uses such as standard restaurant, bar, or live
entertainment as otherwise permitted in the zoning district.
BUFFER  shall mean a strip of land established to protect one type of land use
from another incompatible land use or between a land use and a private or
public road. Also, see Screening.
BUFFER AREA  shall mean an open and unobstructed ground area of a plot in
addition to any no building zones or street widening around the perimeter of
any plot where required.
BUFFER YARD  shall mean a landscaped area intended to separate and partially
obstruct the view of two adjacent land uses or properties from one another.
BUILDABLE AREA  shall mean that part of a zoning lot not included within the
required yards or subject to other restrictions herein required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-44.png]
 
BUILDING  shall mean any structure built and maintained for the support,
shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind,
but shall not include temporary buildings as defined in "Structure,
Temporary". Trailers, with or without wheels, shall not be considered
buildings.
BUILDING AREA  shall mean the sum in square feet of the ground areas occupied
by all buildings and structures on a lot.
BUILDING CODE  shall mean the various codes of the City of Kimball that
regulate construction and require building, electrical, mechanical, plumbing
and other permits to as well as other codes adopted by the City that pertain to
building construction.
BUILDING, COMMERCIAL,  shall mean any structure used for and housing a
commercial use.
BUILDING COVERAGE  shall mean the area of a site covered by buildings or roofed
areas, excluding allowed projecting eaves, balconies, and similar features.
BUILDING ENVELOPE  shall mean the three-dimensional space within which a
structure is permitted to be built on a lot after all zoning and other
applicable municipal requirements have been met.
BUILDING HEIGHT  shall mean the vertical distance above grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to
the average height of the highest point of
a gable, hip, or shed roof, measured from the highest adjoining sidewalk or
ground surface within a five feet horizontal distance of the exterior wall of
the building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-46.png]
 
BUILDING, INDUSTRIAL  shall mean any structure used for or housing any
manufacturing, warehouse storage, or similar functions.
BUILDING LINE  shall mean the outer boundary of a building established by the
location of its exterior walls.
BUILDING OFFICIAL  shall mean the designated person of the City Council,
responsible for the enforcement of the building and land use ordinances of the
City of Kimball.
BUILDING, PUBLIC  shall mean any building held, used, or controlled exclusively
for public purposes by any department or branch of government, state, county,
or municipal, without reference to the ownership of the building or of the
realty upon which it is situated. A building belonging to or used by the public
for the transaction of public or quasi-public business.
BUILDING, SEMI-PUBLIC  shall mean structures principally of an institutional
nature and serving a public need, such as churches, hospitals, museums, but not
including the operation of a public bar, restaurant, or recreational facility
as a commercial enterprise.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE  shall mean the required zoning distance between a
building and the lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-48.png]
 
BULK REGULATIONS  shall mean regulations controlling the size and relationship
of structures and uses to each other and to open areas and lot lines. Bulk
regulations include regulations controlling: (1) maximum height (2) maximum lot
coverage and (3) minimum size of yard and setbacks.
BUSINESS  shall mean activities that include the exchange or manufacture of
goods or services on a site.
BUSINESS CENTER  shall mean a building containing more than one commercial
business, or any group of nonresidential buildings within a common development,
characterized by shared parking and access.
BUSINESS INCUBATOR  shall mean a facility dedicated to the start-up and growth
of small businesses, accomplished through management and facility support
systems. For purposes of this definition, management support systems include
access to professional advice, information on small business regulations,
management, advertising, promotion, marketing, sales, inventory, employees,
labor relations, and financial counseling. Facility support systems include
clerical and reception staff, cleaning and building security, and access
to copy machines, computers, faxes, and other electronic equipment.
BUSINESS SERVICES  shall mean uses providing services to people, groups,
businesses, dwellings and other buildings. Business services shall include
janitorial services, carpet and upholstery cleaning, painting and decorating,
building maintenance, swimming pool maintenance, security service, graphics/
advertising agency, photocopying/ duplication, quick print shops,
printing, blueprinting, sign painting, non-vehicle equipment rental,
photographic studios.
BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES  shall mean establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in the sale, rental or repair of equipment, supplies and
materials or the provision of services used by office, professional and service
establishments to the firms themselves but excluding automotive, construction
and farm equipment; or engaged in the provision of maintenance or custodial
services to businesses. Typical uses include office equipment and supply firms,
small business machine repair shops or hotel equipment and supply firms,
janitorial services, photography studios, and convenience printing and copying.
**** C ****
CABIN  shall mean a small one-story house built and designed for temporary use.
CABIN, HUNTING AND FISHING  shall mean buildings used only during hunting and
fishing season as a base for hunting and fishing, and outdoor recreation.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-50.png]
 
CAMPER  see Recreational Vehicle
CAMPGROUND  shall mean a parcel of land intended for the temporary occupancy of
tents, campers, and major recreational vehicles for which the primary purpose
is recreational and having open areas that are natural in character.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-52.png]
 
CAR WASH  shall mean a building or structure or an area of land with machine or
hand operated facilities for the cleaning, washing, polishing, or waxing of
motor vehicles.
CARGO CONTAINER DWELLING , see Dwelling Unit, Special Types
CARPORT  shall mean a permanent roofed structure with not more than two
enclosed sides used or intended to be used for automobile shelter and storage.
CELLAR  shall mean a building space having less than one-half of its height
below the average adjoining grade lines.
CEMETERY  shall mean land used or intended to be used for the burial of the
dead and dedicated for such purposes, including columbariums, crematoriums, and
mausoleums.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-54.png]
 
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY  shall mean an official certificate issued by the
Building Official or his/her designee, upon finding of conformance with the
zoning ordinance and other applicable ordinances of the City and authorizing
legal use of the premises for which it is issued.
CHANNEL  shall mean the geographical area located within either the natural or
the artificial banks of a watercourse or drainageway.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-56.png]
 
CHARITABLE  shall mean a public or semi-public institutional use of a
philanthropic, charitable, benevolent, religious, or eleemosynary character,
but not including sheltering or caring of animals.
CHILD CARE CENTER  shall mean an establishment other than a public or parochial
school, which provides day care, play groups, nursery schools or education for
nine or more children under age 13, at any one time, from families other than
the providers.
CHILD CARE HOME  shall mean an operation in the provider's place of residence,
which serves at least four, but not more than eight children at any one
time from families other than that of the provider. A Family Child Care Home
provider may be approved to serve no more than two additional school-age
children during non-school hours.
CHURCH, STOREFRONT  shall mean a religious facility contained within a store or
similar structure not typically used for religious activities that are now used
as a meeting place for a congregation, including but not limited to, barns,
stores, warehouses, old public buildings, and single-family dwellings.
CITY  shall mean the City of Kimball, Nebraska. Also, “City Council” or
“Governing Body.”
CITY ATTORNEY  shall mean the City Attorney of the City of Kimball or his/her
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
CITY COUNCIL  shall mean the City Council of Kimball, Nebraska.
CITY ENGINEER  shall mean the City Engineer as hired or appointed by the Mayor
and City Council or his/her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
CITY LIMITS  shall mean the established corporate boundary of the City of
Kimball.
CLUB  shall mean an association of persons (whether or not incorporated),
religious or otherwise, for a common purpose, but not including groups which
are organized primarily to render a service carried on as a business for
profit.
CLUSTERED DEVELOPMENT  shall mean a development design technique concentrating
buildings in specific areas on a site to allow remaining land to be used for
recreation, common open space, or the preservation of historically or
environmentally sensitive features.
CODE  shall mean the Municipal Code of the City of Kimball, Nebraska.
COMMERIAL USE  shall mean any use involving in part or in whole the sale of
merchandise, materials or services.
COMMISSION  shall mean the Planning Commission of Kimball, Nebraska.
COMMON AREA OR PROPERTY  shall mean a parcel or parcels of land, together with
the improvements thereon, the use and enjoyment of which are shared by the
owners of the individual building sites in a Planned Development or condominium
development.
COMMON DEVELOPMENT  shall mean a development proposed and planned as one
unified project not separated by a public street or alley.
COMMON OPEN SPACE  shall mean land within or related to a development not
individually owned or dedicated for public use, designed and generally intended
for the common use of the residents of the development.
COMMUNICATION SERVICES  shall mean establishments primarily engaged in the
provision of broadcasting and other information relay services accomplished
through the use of electronic and telephonic mechanisms but excludes those
classified as Utilities.
COMMUNITY CENTER  shall mean a place, structure, or other facility used for and
providing religious, fraternal, social, and/or recreational programs generally
open to the public and designed to accommodate and serve various segments of
the community.
COMPATIBILITY  shall mean harmony in the appearance of two or more external
design features in the same vicinity.
COMPATIBLE USE  shall mean the degree to which two or more different land use
types are able to exist together in close proximity, with no one use having
significant negative effects on any other use.
COMPOST  shall mean decomposed organic material resulting from the composting
process. Used to enrich or improve the consistency of soil.
COMPOSTING  shall mean processing waste in a controlled environment to produce
a stable product by microbiologically degrading organic matter under aerobic
conditions.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-58.png]
 
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN  shall mean the Comprehensive Development
Plan of Kimball, Nebraska as adopted by the City Council, setting forth
policies for the present and foreseeable future community welfare as a whole
and meeting the purposes and requirements set forth in the Neb. Rev. Stat. §19-
903.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT  shall mean a permit issued by the Planning Commission
and City Council authorizing the recipient to make a conditional use of
property in accordance with the provisions of Article 6 and any additional
conditions placed upon or required by said permit.
CONDOMINIUM  shall mean real estate, portions of which are designated for
separate ownership and the remainder of which is designated for common
ownership solely by the owners of those portions, pursuant to the Nebraska
Condominium Act, as set forth in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 76-825 to 76-894
(R.R.S.1997).
CONFLICTING LAND USE  shall mean the use of property which transfers over
neighboring property lines negative economic or environmental effects,
including, but not limited to, noise, vibration, odor, dust, glare, smoke,
pollution, and water vapor, or consists of mismatched land uses, density,
height, mass, or layout of adjacent uses, or results in a loss of privacy.
CONGREGATE HOUSING  shall mean a residential facility for four or more persons
aged 55 years or over and their spouses, providing living and sleeping
facilities including meal preparation, dining areas, laundry services, room
cleaning and common recreational, social, and service facilities for the
exclusive use of all residents including resident staff personnel who occupy a
room or unit in the residential facility. Also, see Life Care Facility.
CONSERVATION  shall mean the management of natural resources to prevent waste,
destruction, or degradation.
CONSERVATION AREA  shall mean an area of environmentally sensitive and valuable
lands protected from any activity that would significantly alter their
ecological integrity, balance or character, except in the case of an overriding
public interest, including but not limited to: wetlands, floodways, flood
plains, drainage ways, river or stream banks, and areas of significant
biological productivity or uniqueness.
CONSERVATION DEVELOPMENT  shall mean a development design technique that
concentrates buildings in specific areas on a site to allow remaining land
to be used for recreation, common open space, or the preservation of
historically or environmentally sensitive features.
CONSERVATION EASEMENT  shall mean an easement granting a right or interest in
real property appropriate to retaining land or water areas
predominantly in their natural, scenic, open, or wooded condition and retaining
such areas as suitable habitat for fish, plants, or wildlife, or maintaining
existing land uses.
CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION  shall mean wholly or in majority, a residential
subdivision that permits a reduction in lot area, setback, or other site
development regulations, provided 1) there is no increase in the overall
density permitted for a conventional subdivision in a given zoning district,
and 2) the remaining land area is used for common space.
CONSTRUCTION BATCH PLANT  shall mean a temporary demountable facility used for
the manufacturing of cement, concrete, asphalt, or other paving materials
intended for specific construction projects.
CONSTRUCTION YARDS  shall mean establishments housing facilities
of businesses primarily engaged in construction activities, including
incidental storage of materials and equipment on lots other than construction
sites. Typical uses are building contractor's yards.
CONVALESCENT SERVICES  shall mean a use providing bed care and inpatient
services for persons requiring regular medical attention but excluding a
facility providing surgical or emergency medical services and excluding a
facility providing care for alcoholism, drug addiction, mental disease, or
communicable disease. Typical uses include nursing homes.
CONVENIENCE STORE  shall mean a one-story, retail store containing floor area
that is designed and stocked to sell primarily food, beverages, and other
household supplies, and may also sell gasoline, to customers who purchase only
a relatively few items (in contrast to a "supermarket.") It is dependent on
and is designed to attract and accommodate large volumes of stop-and-go
traffic.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-60.png]
 
CONTIGUOUS  see Abut.
CONTRIBUTING FLOOR AREA  shall mean the total floor area designated for tenant
occupancy and exclusive use; including basements, mezzanines, and upper floors,
if any, but excluding stairways, restrooms, and mechanical equipment
rooms, expressed in square feet measured from the centerlines of joint
partitions, and from the exterior surface of outside walls.
CORPORATE LIMITS  shall mean all land, structures and open space that has been
annexed into the City’s jurisdiction. This does not include the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City.
COTTAGE INDUSTRY BUSINESSES  shall mean a business in a residential area
conducted primarily by the residents of the property manufacturing artistic,
handicraft, and other craft items.
COURT  shall mean an open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot
with a building or buildings and bounded on two or more sides by such building
or buildings.
COURT, INNER  shall mean a court enclosed on all sides by the exterior walls of
a building or buildings.
COURT, OUTER  shall mean a court enclosed on all but one side by exterior walls
of building or buildings or lot lines on which fences, hedges, or walls are
permitted.
COURTYARD  shall mean an open, unoccupied space, bounded on two or more sides
by the walls of the building.
COUNTY  shall mean Kimball County
CONVENTIONAL SUBDIVISION  shall mean a subdivision which literally meets all
nominal standards of the Subdivision Ordinance for lot dimensions, setbacks,
street frontage, and other site development regulations.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-62.png]
 
CREATIVE SUBDIVISION  shall mean a subdivision that, while complying with the
Subdivision Ordinance, diverges from nominal compliance with site development
regulations in the Subdivision Ordinance. Creative subdivisions imply a higher
level of pre-planning than conventional subdivisions. They may be employed for
the purpose of environmental protection or the creation of superior community
design. Types of Creative Subdivisions include Cluster Subdivisions and New
Urban Residential Districts.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-64.png]
 
CROP PRODUCTION  shall mean the raising and harvesting of tree crops, row crops
for field crops on an agricultural or commercial basis. This definition may
include accessory retail sales under certain conditions.
CUL-DE-SAC  shall mean a short public way, which has only one outlet for
vehicular traffic and terminates in a vehicular turn-around.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-66.png]
 
CULTURAL SERVICES  shall mean a library, museum, or similar registered
nonprofit organizational use displaying, preserving and exhibiting objects of
community and cultural interest in one or more of the arts and sciences.
CURVE LOT  see Lot, Curve.
CRYPTO MINING  shall mean the process of digitally searching for Bitcoin and/or
digital tokens. Crypto mining may occur in a specially design building similar
to a data center.
**** D ****
DATA CENTER  shall mean an establishment primarily involved in the compiling,
storage, and maintenance of documents, records, and
other types of information in digital form utilizing mainframe computers and
storage devices. This term does not include general business offices, computer-
related sales establishments, and business or personal services.
DATE OF SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION  shall mean the date certified by the local
building inspector or zoning administrator when the work, or a designated
portion thereof is sufficiently complete, so the owner may occupy the work or
designated portion thereof for the use for which it is intended.
DECIDUOUS SCREEN  shall mean landscape material consisting of plants which lose
their leaves in winter and eventually will grow and be maintained at six feet
in height, at least.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-68.png]
 
DECK  shall mean a flat, floored, roofless structure. Roofless does not include
a roll-out awning or a canopy provided that all the vertical sides, other than
the residential structure are open.
DENSITY  shall mean the number of dwelling units per gross acre of land.
DENTENTION BASIN  shall mean a facility for the temporary storage of stormwater
runoff.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-70.png]
 
DENTENTION FACILITY  shall mean a publicly or privately operated or contracted
use providing housing and care for individuals legally confined, designed to
isolate those individuals from the community.
DEVELOPER  shall mean any person, corporation, partnership, or entity that is
responsible for any undertaking that requires a building or zoning permit,
conditional use permit or sign permit.
DEVELOPMENT  shall mean any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations for
which necessary permits may be required.
DEVELOPMENT CONCEPT PLAN  see Site Plan.
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW  shall mean the review, by the City, of subdivision plats,
site plans, rezoning requests, or permit review.
DISTRICT OR ZONE  shall mean a portion of the Zoning Area for which uniform
regulations governing the use of land, the height, use, area, size, and
intensity of use of buildings, land, and open spaces are established.
DOG DAY CARE FACILITY  shall mean a facility providing such services as canine
day care for all or part of a day, obedience classes, training, grooming, or
behavioral counseling, provided that overnight boarding is not permitted.
DOG KENNEL  see Kennel, Boarding or Training, and Kennel, Commercial.
DOG PARK  shall mean a specifically designated and fenced off for the exercise
of canines and other domestic animals.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-72.png]
 
DOMESTIC ANIMALS  see Household Pet.
DOWNZONING  shall mean a change in zoning classification of land to a less
intensive or more restrictive district, such as from commercial district to
residential district or from a multiple family residential district to single
family residential district.
DRAINAGEWAY  shall mean any depression two feet or more below the surrounding
land serving to give direction to a current of water less than nine months of
the year, having a bed and well-defined banks; provided, that when there is
doubt as to whether a depression is a watercourse or drainageway, it shall be
presumed to be a watercourse.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-74.png]
 
DRIVEWAY  shall mean any vehicular access to an off-street parking or loading
facility.
DUMP  shall mean a place used for the disposal, abandonment, discarding by
burial, incineration, or by any other means for any garbage, sewage, trash,
refuse, rubble, waste material, offal or dead animals. Such use shall not
involve any industrial or commercial process.
DUPLEX  see Dwelling, Two Family.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-76.png]
 
DWELLING  shall mean any building or portion thereof attached to a permanent
foundation, which is designed and used exclusively for single family
residential purposes, excluding mobile homes.
DWELLING, CONDOMINIUM  shall mean a multiple dwelling as defined herein whereby
the title to each dwelling unit is held in separate ownership, and the real
estate on which the units are located is held in common ownership solely by the
owners of the units, with each owner having an undivided interest in the common
real estate.
DWELLING, COTTAGE COURT  shall mean a residential form for either renter-
occupied or owner-occupied which contains multiple units, likely grouped in
pairs around an open space or courtyard.
DWELLING,  COURTYARD  BUILDING  (MULTI-FAMILY)   shall  mean a residential
structure where the units have internal excess and are built around an outer or
inner courtyard.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-78.png]
Example of Dwelling, Courtyard Building
DWELLING, LIVE-WORK UNIT  shall mean a small- to medium-sized attached or
detached structure consisting of one dwelling unit above or behind a ground
floor space accommodating a non-residential use.
DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME  shall mean a factory-built structure which is to
be used as a place for human habitation, which is not constructed or equipped
with a permanent hitch or other device allowing it to be moved other than to a
permanent site, which does not have permanently attached to its body or frame
any wheels or axles, and which bears a label certifying that it was built
in compliance with standards promulgated by the HUD. In order to be considered
the same as a stick-built residential dwelling unit, the following standards
shall be met:
   a)   The home shall have no less than 900 sf of floor area, above grade, for
single story construction.
   b)   The home shall have no less than an 18 ft exterior width.
   c)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and one-
half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run.
   d)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material and scale
comparable with existing site-built, single-family residences.
   e)   The home shall have a non-reflective roof material that is or simulates
asphalt or wood shingles, tile, or rock. However, standing seam roofs are
allowable provided it’s non-reflective.
   f)   The home shall be placed on a continuous permanent foundation and have
wheels, axles, transporting lights, and removable towing apparatus removed.
   g)   The home shall meet and maintain the same standards that are uniformly
applied to all single-family dwellings in the zoning district.
   h)   The home shall have a permanent foundation, to be constructed from
either poured concrete or laid masonry block or brick on a footing to be placed
a minimum of 42 inches below the final ground level.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-80.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-82.png]
Example of a Dwelling, Manufactured Home
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY (APARTMENT BUILDINGS) shall mean a
building or portion thereof containing three or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, MOBILE HOME  shall mean any prefabricated structure, composed of one
or more parts, used for living and sleeping purposes, shipped or moved in
essentially a complete condition and mounted on wheels, skids or rollers, jacks
blocks, horses, skirting or a permanent or temporary foundation or any
prefabricated structure which has been or reasonably can be equipped with
wheels or other devices for transporting the structure from place to place,
whether by motor power or other means. The term mobile home shall include
trailer home and camp car, but the definition shall not apply to any vehicle
lawfully operated upon fixed rails.
   a)   Permanently Attached: Attached to real estate in such a way as to
require dismantling, cutting away, unbolting from permanent continuous
foundation or structural change in such mobile home in order to relocate it on
another site in accordance to manufacturers recommendations.
   b)   Permanent Foundation: Base on which building rests, to be constructed
from either poured concrete or laid masonry block or brick on a footing to be
placed a minimum of 42 inches below the final ground level.
DWELLING, MODULAR  shall mean any dwelling whose construction
consists entirely of or the major portions of its construction consist of a
unit or units not fabricated on the final site for the dwelling unit, which
units are movable or portable until placed on a permanent foundation and
connected to utilities, pursuant to the Nebraska Uniform Standards for Modular
Housing Units Act, as set forth in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 71-1557 to 71-1568.01
(Cum.Supp.2000). Further, such dwelling must also meet or be equivalent to the
construction criteria set forth in the Nebraska Uniform Standards for
Modular Housing Units Act. Such dwelling is considered to be a conventional
type single-family dwelling, and those that do not meet the above criteria
shall be considered a mobile home. In order to be considered the same as a
stick-built residential dwelling unit, the following standards shall be met:
   a)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area, above
grade, for single story construction.
   b)   The home shall have no less than a 18 feet exterior width;
   c)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and one-
half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run.
   d)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material and scale
comparable with existing site-built, single-family residences.
   e)   The home shall have a non-reflective roof material that is or simulates
asphalt or wood shingles, tile, or rock. However, standing seam roofs are
allowable provided it’s non-reflective.
   f)   The home shall be placed on a continuous permanent foundation and have
wheels, axles, transporting lights, and removable towing apparatus removed.
   g)   The home shall meet and maintain the same standards that are uniformly
applied to all single-family dwellings in the zoning district.
   h)   The home shall have a permanent foundation, to be constructed from
either poured concrete or laid masonry block or brick on a footing to be placed
a minimum of 42 inches below the final ground level.
DWELLING, MODULAR (HOME SEAL)  shall mean a device or insignia issued by the
Nebraska Department of Health to be displayed on the exterior of the modular
housing unit to evidence compliance with departmental standards.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE  shall mean a building or buildings designed and used for
occupancy by three or more families, all living independently of each other,
and having separate kitchen and toilet facilities for each family.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-84.png]
 
DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY or SINGLE-FAMILY, DETACHED shall mean a  building
having accommodations for or occupied exclusively by one family.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED (GROUP, ROW AND TOWNHOUSES)  shall mean a
residential building joined horizontally to another residential building at one
or more sides by a party wall or walls.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-86.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-88.png]
 
DWELLING, TWO FAMILY (DUPLEX)  shall mean a residential building containing two
dwelling units, either attached or detached.
DWELLING, TWO FAMILY STACKED  shall mean a residential building with two units
stacked one on the other. These can be an older single-family dwelling unit
converted into two separate units.
DWELLING, TRIPLE STACKED  shall mean a residential structure containing three
to six units stacked through three stories.
DWELLING UNIT  shall mean one or more rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy or lease
on a weekly, monthly, or longer basis, and physically separate from any other
rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and containing
independent cooking, toilet and sleeping facilities.
DWELLING UNIT, SPECIAL TYPES  shall mean any dwelling type consisting of
single-family detached; single-family attached, multi-family, mobile home that
is not meet the typical construction style of traditional stick framed
structures.
   1.   Cargo Container Dwelling: a dwelling unit constructed of one or more
new or used cargo containers used for multi-modal shipping.
   2.   Grain Bin Dwelling Unit: A dwelling unit constructed of one or
more grain bins, new or used meeting the definition of dwelling unit above.
   3.   Quonset home: A home constructed beneath and in a structure referred to
as a Quonset.
   4.   Shouse: A combination of a dwelling unit and machine shed under a
common or connect roofing system.
   5.   Tiny House:  A structure containing living spaces including sleeping
and kitchen areas which measure 500 square feet or less in area. Tiny houses
can be either portable, on wheels similar to a recreational vehicle, or on a
permanent foundation.
   6.   Tree House: A dwelling unit where the primary structure of the unit is
based on one or more tree clusters.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-90.png]
**** E ****
EASEMENT  shall mean a grant, made by a property owner, to the use of his or
her land by the public, a corporation, or persons, for specific purposes, such
as access to another property or the construction of utilities, drainage ways
or roadways.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-92.png]
 
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION  shall mean a public or nonprofit institution or
facility which conducts regular academic instruction at preschool,
kindergarten, elementary, secondary, and collegiate levels, including graduate
schools, universities, junior colleges, trade schools, nonprofit research
institutions and religious institutions. Such institutions must either: (1)
Offer general academic instruction equivalent to the standards established by
the State Board of Education; or (2) Confer degrees as a college or university
or undergraduate or graduate standing; or (3) Conduct research; or (4) Give
religious instruction. Private schools, academies, or institutes incorporated
or otherwise, which operate for a profit, and commercial or private trade
schools are not included in this definition.
EFFECTIVE DATE  shall mean the date that this chapter shall have been adopted,
amended, or the date land areas became subject to the regulations contained in
this chapter as a result of such adoption or amendment.
EMERGENCY RESIDENTIAL SERVICES  shall mean a facility or use of a building to
provide a protective sanctuary for victims of crime or abuse, including
emergency housing during crisis intervention for victims of rape, abuse, or
physical beatings.
ENCROACHMENT  shall mean an obstruction or illegal or unauthorized intrusion
into a delineated floodway, right-of-way, or adjacent property.
ENLARGEMENT  shall mean the expansion of a building, structure, or use in
volume, size, area, height, length, width, depth, capacity, ground coverage, or
in number.
EQUIPMENT RENTAL AND SALES  shall mean the sale or rental of trucks, tractors,
construction equipment, agricultural implements, mobile homes, and similar
heavy equipment, including incidental storage, maintenance, and servicing.
Typical uses include truck dealerships, construction equipment dealerships, and
mobile home sales establishments.
EQUIPMENT REPAIR SERVICES  shall mean the repair of trucks, tractors,
construction equipment, agricultural implements, and similar heavy
equipment. Typical uses include truck repair garages, tractor and farm
implement repair services, and machine shops, but exclude dismantling, salvage,
or body and fender repair services.
ERECTED  shall mean constructed upon or moved onto a site.
ETHANOL PLANT  shall mean a facility where the conversion of biomass into an
alcohol fuel product is undertaken. The facility also includes the processing
of certain by-products resulting from the fermentation and distillation
process.
EVERGREEN OR CONIFEROUS SCREEN  shall mean landscape material
consisting of plants which retain leaves or needles throughout the year which
eventually will grow and be maintained at six feet in height, at least.
EXOTIC BIRDS OR ANIMALS  shall mean birds or animals not commonly kept
domestically or that are not native to Nebraska and/or the United States.
Exotic birds or animals includes, but are not limited to, bears, lions, tigers,
cougars, wolves, half-breed wolves, and snakes. Birds in the ratite family,
llamas and buffalo or bison shall not be considered as exotic birds or animals.
EXPANSION  shall mean the enlargement of a building, structure, or use in
volume, size, area, height, length, width, depth, capacity, ground coverage, or
in number.
EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION  shall mean the area beyond the corporate limits
of the City, in which the State has granted the City the power to exercise
zoning jurisdiction and building regulations.
**** F ****
FAÇADE  shall mean the exterior wall of a building exposed to public view from
the building’s exterior.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-94.png]
 
Facade
FACTORY  shall mean a structure or plant within which something is made or
manufactured from raw or partly wrought materials into forms suitable for use.
FAMILY  shall mean one or more persons living together and sharing common
living, sleeping, cooking, and eating facilities within an individual housing
unit, no more than 4 of whom may be unrelated. The following persons shall be
considered related for the purpose of this title:
   1.   Persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption.
   2.   Persons residing with a family for the purpose of adoption.
   3.   Not more than eight persons under 19 years of age, residing in a foster
house licensed or approved by the State of Nebraska.
   4.   Not more than eight persons 19 years of age or older residing with a
family for the purpose of receiving foster care licensed or approved by the
State of Nebraska.
   5.   Person(s) living with a family at the direction of a court.
FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME I  shall mean a childcare operation in the provider’s
place of residence which serves between four and eight children at any one
time. A Family Child Care Home I provider may be approved to serve no more than
two additional school-age children during non-school hours. In addition to
these regulations, a Child Care Home shall meet requirement of the State of
Nebraska.
FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME II  shall mean a childcare operation either in the
provider’s place of residence or a site other than the residence, serving
twelve or fewer children at any one time. In addition to these regulations, a
Child Care Home shall meet requirement of the State of Nebraska.
FARM/RANCH  an area containing at least 10 contiguous acres which is used for
growing or storage of the usual farm products such as vegetables, fruit, and
grain, as well as for the raising thereon of the
usual farm poultry and farm animals, and which produces 1,000 dollars or more
per year of farms products raised on the premises. The term farming includes
the operating of such area for one or more of the above uses with the necessary
accessory uses for treating or storing the produce and the feeding of livestock
as hereinafter prescribed provided such accessory uses do not include the
feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals.
FARMER’S MARKET  shall mean an occasional or periodic market held in an open
area or in a structure where groups of sellers offer for sale to the public
such items as fresh produce, seasonal fruits, fresh flowers, arts and crafts
items, and food and beverages (but not to include secondhand goods) dispensed
from booths located on-site.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-96.png]
 
FEDERAL  shall mean the federal government of the United States of America.
FEEDLOT, COMMERCIAL  shall mean a lot or building, or combination of lots and
buildings intended to be used for the confined feeding, breeding, raising or
holding of animals and specifically designed as a confinement area in which
manure may accumulate, or where the concentration of animals is such that a
vegetation cover cannot be maintained in the enclosure. This definition does
not include the pasturing of livestock.
FENCE  shall mean a structure serving as an enclosure, barrier or boundary
above ground.
FENCE, INVISIBLE  shall mean an electronic pet containment system that includes
the burying of wire and the use of transmitters for complete enclosure of a
yard or creating sectional areas within a yard.
FENCE, OPEN  shall mean a fence, including gates, which has 50 percent or more
of the surface area in open spaces, which affords direct views through the
fence.
FENCE, SOLID  shall mean any fence, which does not qualify as an open fence.
FINANCIAL SERVICES  shall mean the provision of financial and banking services
to consumers or clients. Walk-in and drive-in services to consumers are
provided on site. Typical uses include banks, savings and loan associations,
savings banks, and loan companies.
FIREWORKS STAND  shall mean any temporary structure used for the retail sale of
fireworks, on a temporary basis.
FIREWORKS STORAGE  shall mean any permanent building and/or structure where
fireworks are stored for any portion of a year provided there is no retail
sales made from the storage location. Said storage facility may also be used
for the delivery and distribution of fireworks on a wholesale basis.
FLOOD  shall mean a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from: (1) The overflow of inland or tidal
waters, or (2) The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters
from any source.
FLOODPLAIN  shall mean any land area susceptible to being inundated by water
from any source.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-98.png]
 
FLOOD PROOFING  shall mean any combination of structural and non-structural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or
improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their
contents.
FLOODWAY  shall mean the channel of a watercourse and the adjacent land areas
that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-98.png]
 
FLOOR AREA  shall mean the square feet of floor space within the outside line
of the walls, including the total of all space on all floors of the
building. Floor area shall not include porches, garages, or spaces in a
basement, cellar, or attic.
FOOD SALES  shall mean establishments or places of business primarily engaged
in the retail sale of food or household products for home consumption. Typical
uses include groceries, delicatessens, meat markets, retail bakeries, and candy
shops.
FLORIST  shall mean a retail business whose principal activity is the selling
of plants which are not grown on the site and conducting business within an
enclosed building.
FOUNDATION  shall mean that part of a building or wall, wholly or partly below
grade, that constitutes a structural base for such building or wall.
FREESTANDING CANOPY  shall mean a permanent, freestanding, unenclosed roof
structure, typical of gas stations and financial institutions, designed to
provide patrons shelter from the elements.
FRONTAGE  shall mean that portion of a parcel of property that abuts a
dedicated public street or highway.
FUEL STATION  shall mean a designated facility offering the sale gasoline,
diesel fuel and propane.
FUEL STORAGE  shall mean tanks used to store fuel either above- or below-
ground.
FUNERAL HOME OR MORTUARY  shall mean a building used for the storage,
preparation, and display of the deceased and for the performance of rituals and
ceremonies connected therewith be-fore burial or cremation. Crematoriums are
permitted as an accessory use to a funeral home or mortuary.
**** G ****
GARAGE, COMMERCIAL  shall mean a building or portion thereof, designed or used
for storage, sale, or hiring of motor vehicles for commercial purposes.
GARAGE, PRIVATE  shall mean a detached accessory building, including carports,
on the same lot as a dwelling, used to house vehicles of the occupants of the
dwelling.
GARAGE, REPAIR  shall mean a building designed and used for the storage, care,
repair, or refinishing of motor vehicles including both minor and major
mechanical overhauling, paint, and body work.
GARAGE, STORAGE  shall mean a detached accessory building on the same lot as a
dwelling, used to house vehicles, recreational vehicles, and other consumables
owned by the occupants of the dwelling.
GARBAGE  shall mean any waste material of an animal or vegetable nature,
including that which may be used for the fattening of livestock.
GARDEN CENTER  shall mean a place of business where retail and whole-sale
products and produce are sold to the consumer. These centers, which may include
a nursery and/or greenhouses, im-port most of the items sold, and may include
plants, nursery products and stock, potting soil, hardware, power equipment and
machinery, hoes, rakes, shovels, and other garden and farm variety tools and
utensils.
GENERAL OFFICES  shall mean the use of a site for business, professional, or
administrative offices. Typical uses include real estate, insurance,
management, travel, or other business offices; organization and association
offices; banks or financial offices; or professional offices.
GEOTHERMAL HEAT PUMP SYSTEM  shall mean a well, constructed for the purpose of
utilizing the geothermal properties of the earth.
   1.   Open Loop Heat Pump well shall mean a well that transfers heat via
pumped ground water which is discharged above and/or below ground.
   2.   Closed Loop Heat Pump well shall mean a well, constructed for the
purpose of installing the underground closed loop pipe necessary to recirculate
heat transfer fluid.
   3.   Horizontal Closed Loop means a trench or pit essentially parallel to
the horizon and into which a closed loop pipe is placed for the purpose of heat
transfer.
   4.   Vertical Closed Loop means a borehole essentially perpendicular to the
horizon into which a closed loop pipe is placed for the purpose of heat
transfer.
GRADE  shall mean the horizontal elevation of the finished surface of ground,
paving, or sidewalk adjacent to any building line.
   1.   For buildings having walls facing one street only, the grade shall be
the elevation of the sidewalk at the center of the wall facing the street.
   2.   For buildings having walls facing more than one street, the grade shall
be the average elevation of the grades of all walls facing each street.
   3.   For buildings having no walls facing a street, the grade shall be the
average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior
walls of the building.
GRAIN BIN DWELLING , see Dwelling Unit, Special Types
GRAIN ELEVATOR  shall mean a structure or group of structures whose purpose is
limited to the receiving, processing, storage, drying and transporting of bulk
grain.
GRAPHIC ELEMENT  shall mean a letter, illustration, symbol, figure, insignia,
or other device employed to express and illustrate a message or part thereof.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-100.png]
 
Graphic Element
GREEN ROOF  shall mean a roof covering of vegetation material, typically
consisting of the following components: an insulation layer, a waterproof
membrane to protect the building from leaks, a root barrier to prevent roots
from penetrating the waterproof membrane; a drainage layer, usually made of
lightweight gravel, clay, or plastic; a geotextile or filter mat that allows
water to soak through but prevents erosion of fine soil particles; a growing
medium; plants; and, sometimes, a wind blanket.
GREEN ROOF, EXTENSIVE  shall mean a green roof system that ranges from as
little as one to five inches in soil depth. Extensive green roof systems
generally add less load and require less maintenance than intensive green roof
systems.
GREEN ROOF, INTENSIVE  shall mean a green roof system that requires a minimum
of one foot of soil depth to create a more traditional rooftop garden, with
large trees, shrubs and other manicured landscapes. They are multiple layer
constructions, often including elaborate irrigation and drainage systems,
adding considerable load to a structure, and requiring intensive maintenance.
GREENHOUSE  shall mean a building or premises used for growing plants,
preparing floral arrangements for off-site delivery to customers, cold storage
of flowers or dry storage of materials used for agricultural or horticultural
purposes.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-102.png]
 
GREENHOUSE, NONCOMMERCIAL  shall mean a building constructed primarily of
glass, plastic or similar material in which temperature and humidity can be
controlled for the cultivation of fruit, herbs, flowers, vegetables or other
plants intended for private use and not for sale.
GREENWAY  shall mean a parcel or parcels of land, together with the
improvements thereon, dedicated as an easement for access and/or recreation;
usually a strip of land set-aside for a walkway, bicycle trail, bridle path, or
other similar access-way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-104.png]
 
GROSS FLOOR AREA  shall mean the total enclosed area of all floors of a
building, measured to the inside surfaces of the exterior walls. This
definition excludes the areas of basements, elevator shafts, airspaces above
atriums, and enclosed off-street parking and loading areas serving a principal
use.
GROUND COVER  shall mean plant material used in landscaping which remains less
than 12 inches in height at maturity.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-106.png]
 
GROUNDWATER  shall mean water naturally occurring beneath the surface of the
ground that fills available openings in the rock or soil materials such that
they may be considered saturated.
GROUP CARE HOME  shall mean a home, which is operated under the auspices of an
organization which is responsible for providing social services,
administration, direction, and control for the home which is
designed to provide 24-hour care for individuals in a residential setting.
GROUP HOME  shall mean a dwelling with resident staff shared by four or more
handicapped persons who live together as a single
housekeeping unit and in a long term, family-like environment in which
staff persons provide care, education, and participation in community
activities for the residents with the primary goal of enabling the residents to
live as independently as possible in order to reach their maximum potential. As
used herein, the term "handicapped" shall mean having: (1) A physical or mental
impairment that substantially limits one or more of such person's major life
activities so that such person is incapable of living independently; or (2) A
record of having such an impairment.
GROUP HOUSING  shall mean two or more separate buildings on a lot, each
containing one or more dwelling units.
GUEST ROOM  shall mean a room which is designed to be occupied by one or more
guests for sleeping purposes, having no kitchen facilities, not including
dormitories.
**** H ****
HALF-STORY  shall mean a story under a sloped roof which has the intersection
of the roof line and exterior wall face not more than three feet above the
floor of such story.
HALFWAY HOUSE  shall mean a licensed home for individuals on release from more
restrictive custodial confinement or initially placed in lieu of such more
restrictive custodial confinement, living together as a single housekeeping
unit, wherein supervision, rehabilitation and counseling are provided to
mainstream residents back into society, enabling them to live independently.
HAZARDOUS WASTE  shall mean any discarded material, refuse, or waste products,
in solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous form, that cannot be disposed of
through routine waste management techniques because they pose a present or
potential threat to human health, or to other living organisms, because of
their biological, chemical, or physical properties.
HEALTH CLUB  shall mean a facility where members or nonmembers use equipment or
space for the purpose of physical exercise.
HEDGE  shall mean a plant or series of plants, shrubs or other landscape
material, so arranged as to form a physical barrier or enclosure.
HELIPORT  shall mean any landing area used for the landing and taking off of
helicopters, including all necessary passenger and cargo facilities, fueling,
and emergency service facilities.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-108.png]
 
Example of a Heliport
HELISTOP  shall mean an area designed to be used for the landing or takeoff of
one helicopter, the temporary parking of one helicopter, and other facilities
as may be required by federal and state regulations, but not including
operation facilities such as maintenance, storage, fueling, or terminal
facilities.
HOME BASED BUSINESS  shall mean an accessory use to a residential structure
which may have additional employees beyond the immediate residents. A home-
based business would consist of service-oriented uses and typically
be more intense than a home occupation, due to factors such as intensity of use
or clients coming to the residence.
HOME OCCUPATION  shall mean an “in-home” or “home based” or entrepreneurial
business operating from a residential dwelling within Kimball. Any portion of a
residential property, including a home phone, computer, mailing address, etc.,
used in deriving income or sales, will require a resident to obtain a Home
Occupation Permit. Child Care Homes and Child Care Centers are not considered
a Home Occupation.
HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  shall mean a private, nonprofit corporation or
association of homeowners of properties in a fixed area, established for the
purpose of owning, operating, and maintaining various common properties and
facilities.
HORTICULTURE  shall mean the growing of horticultural and floricultural
specialties, such as flowers, shrubs, or trees intended for ornamental or
landscaping purposes. This definition may include
accessory retail sales under certain conditions. Typical uses include wholesale
plant nurseries and greenhouses.
HOSPICE  shall mean a facility serving as a medical and residential facility
for end-of-life treatment, providing inpatient services and support services
for families of the residents and patients.
HOTEL  shall mean a building or portion thereof, or a group of buildings,
offering transient lodging accommodations on a daily rate to the general public
and providing services associated with restaurants, meeting rooms, and
recreational facilities. The word "hotel" includes but is not limited to motel,
inn, automobile court, motor inn, motor lodge, motor court, tourist court, and
motor hotel.
HOUSEHOLD PET  shall mean an animal that is customarily kept for personal use
or enjoyment within the home. Household pet shall include but not be limited to
domestic dogs, domestic cats, domestic tropical birds, fish, and rodents.
HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY  shall mean a multiple-family structure, controlled by
either a public body, institutional body, or nonprofit corporation, whose
occupants are typically 65 years of age or over.
**** I ****
IMPERVIOUS COVERAGE  shall mean the total horizontal area of all buildings,
roofed or covered spaces, paved surface areas, walkways and driveways, and any
other site improvements that decrease the ability of the surface of the site to
absorb water, expressed as a percent of site area. The surface water area of
pools is excluded from this definition.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE  shall mean a surface that has been compacted or covered
with a layer of material making the surface highly resistant to infiltration by
water, such as compacted sand, rock, gravel, or clay and conventionally
surfaced streets, roofs, sidewalks, parking lots, and driveways.
INCIDENTAL USE  shall mean a use, which is subordinate to the main use of a
premise.
INDUSTRIAL USES  shall mean the manufacture, fabrication, processing, reduction
or destruction of any article, substance or commodity, or any other treatment
thereof in such a manner as to change the form, character, or appearance
thereof, and any storage facilities operated in conjunction with an industrial
use or for a fee, including storage elevators, truck storage yards, warehouses,
wholesale storage and other similar types of enterprise.
INDUSTRIAL, GENERAL  shall mean enterprises engaged in the processing,
manufacturing, compounding, assembly, packaging, treatment or fabrication of
materials and products from prepared materials or from raw materials without
noticeable noise, odor, vibration, or air pollution effects across property
lines.
INDUSTRIAL, HEAVY  shall mean enterprises involved in the basic processing and
manufacturing of products, predominately from raw materials, with noticeable
noise, odor, vibration, or air pollution effects across property lines; or a
use or process engaged in the storage of or processes involving potentially or
actually hazardous, explosive, flammable, radioactive, or other commonly
recognized hazardous materials.
INDUSTRIAL, LIGHT  shall mean establishments engaged in the manufacture or
processing of finished products from previously prepared materials, including
processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of such products,
and incidental storage, sales, and distribution. These establishments are
characterized by having no major external environmental effects across property
lines and include no unscreened or unenclosed outdoor storage. Typical uses
include commercial bakeries, dressed beef processing plants, soft drink
bottling, apparel assembly from fabrics, electronics, manufacturing, print
shops and publishing houses.
INFILL DEVELOPMENT  shall mean the construction of a building or structure on a
vacant parcel located in a predominantly built-up area.
INFILL SITE  shall mean any vacant lot, parcel or tract of land within
developed areas of the City and where water, sewer, streets, schools, and fire
protection have already been constructed or are provided.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-110.png]
 
Potential Infill Site
INFRASTRUCTURE  shall mean facilities and services needed to sustain industry,
residential, commercial, and all other land-use activities, including water
lines, sewer lines, and other utilities, streets and roads, communications, and
public facilities such as fire stations, parks, schools, etc.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE  shall mean any motor vehicle which:
   (1)   Does not have a current state license plate; or, (2) Which is
disassembled or wrecked in part or in whole, or is unable to move under its own
power; or, (3) is not equipped as required by Nebraska State Law for operation
upon streets or highways. A vehicle that is wholly or partially dismantled
shall not be considered inoperable when said vehicle is inside a completely
enclosed building.
INSTUTIONAL BUILDINGS  shall mean building or premises occupied by a nonprofit
corporation or a nonprofit establishment for public use.
INTENSITY  shall mean the degree to which land is used referring to the levels
of concentration or activity in uses ranging from uses of low intensity being
agricultural and residential to uses of highest intensity being heavy
industrial uses. High intensity uses are normally uses that generate
concentrations of vehicular traffic and daytime population and are less
compatible with lower intensity uses.
**** J ****
JUNK  shall be any worn-out, cast-off, old, or discarded articles of scrap,
copper, brass, iron, steel, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber, debris, waste, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or parts thereof, and
other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous material.
JUNK YARD  shall mean any lot, land parcel, building, or structure or part
thereof for storage, collection, purchase, sale, salvage, or disposal of
machinery, farm machinery, and including motor vehicles, parts and equipment
result from dismantling or wrecking, or keeping of junk, including scrap metals
or other scrap materials, with no burning permitted. For motor vehicles, see
"Automobile Wrecking Yard".
**** K ****
KENNEL, BOARDING, or TRAINING  shall mean a use on any lot or premises in which
dogs, cats or any other household pets, at least four months of age, are
raised, boarded, bred, or trained.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL  shall mean an establishment where three or more dogs or
cats, or any combination thereof, other household pets, or non-farm/non-
domestic animals at least four months of age, excluding vicious animals, are
raised, bred, boarded, trained, groomed and/or sold as a business.
KENNEL, PRIVATE  shall mean an establishment where three or more dogs or cats,
or combination thereof, other household pets, or non-farm/non-domestic animals,
excluding vicious animals, are raised, bred, and/or boarded.
**** L ****
LAGOON  shall mean a wastewater treatment facility that is a shallow,
artificial pond where sunlight, bacterial action, and oxygen interact to
restore wastewater to a reasonable state of purity. This includes both human
and livestock wastes. All lagoons shall meet the minimum design criteria
established by the NDEE and the NHHS. All lagoons shall have the proper permits
approved prior to starting construction.
LANDFILL, CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL  shall mean the use of a site as a depository
for solid wastes that do not readily undergo chemical or biological breakdown
under conditions normally associated with land disposal operations. Typical
disposal material would include ashes, concrete, paving wastes, rock, brick,
lumber, roofing materials and ceramic tile.
LANDFILL, SOLID WASTE  shall mean the use of a site as a depository for any
solid waste except hazardous and toxic waste as defined by the EPA and/or the
State of Nebraska. Typical disposal material would include non-putrescible
wastes; and putrescible wastes such as vegetation, tree parts, agricultural
wastes (garbage) and manure.
LANDSCAPE  shall mean plant materials, topography, and other natural physical
elements combined in relation to one another and to man-made structures.
LANDSCAPED AREA  shall mean the area within the boundaries of a given lot, site
or common development consisting primarily of plant material, including but not
limited to grass, trees, shrubs, vines, ground cover, and other organic plant
materials; or grass paver masonry units installed such that the appearance of
the area is primarily landscaped.
   1.   Perimeter Landscaped Area: Any required landscaped area that adjoins
the exterior boundary of a lot, site or common development.
   2.   Interior Landscaped Area: Any landscaped area within a site exclusive
of required perimeter landscaping.
LANDSCAPING  shall include the original planting of suitable vegetation in
conformity with the requirements of this Ordinance and the continued
maintenance thereof.
LAUNDRY, SELF SERVICE  shall mean an establishment that provides home-type
washing, drying, and/or ironing facilities for customers on the premises.
LIFE CARE FACILITY  shall mean a facility for the transitional residency of the
elderly and/or disabled persons, progressing from independent living to
congregate apartment living where residents share common meals, culminating in
full health, and continuing care nursing home facility. Also, see Congregate
Housing.
LIMITS OF GRADING  shall mean the outermost edge of the area in which the
existing topography is to be altered by cutting and/or filling.
LIQUOR SALES  shall mean establishments or places of business engaged in retail
sale for off-premises consumption of alcoholic beverages. Typical uses include
liquor stores, bottle shops, or any licensed sales of liquor, beer or wine for
off-site consumption.
LIVESTOCK FEEDING OPERATION (LFO): Any farming operation in a confined area
where grazing is not possible, and where the confined area is for more than six
months in any one calendar year, and where the number of animals so maintained
exceeds 1,000 Animal Units as defined below. The confined area of the LFO shall
include the pens, corrals, sheds, buildings, feed storage areas, waste disposal
ponds,
and related facilities. Such facilities shall be constructed and operated in
conformance with applicable county, state, and federal regulations. Two or more
LFO's under common ownership are deemed to be a single LFO if they are adjacent
to each other and utilize a common area of system for the disposal of livestock
wastes. Each operation type shall be classified in one of four levels according
to total number of A.U. in the operation at any one time. Levels will include:
Class I Facility = 301-1,000 animal units;
Class IIA Facility = 1,001-2,500 animal units;
Class IIB Facility = 2,502 to 5,000 animal units;
Class III Facility = 5,001-10,000 animal units; and
Class IV Facility = 10,001 or more animal units.
LFOs having more than one type feeding operation at one location shall be
categorized according to the total number of animal units.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-112.png]
 
LIVESTOCK SALES  shall mean the use of a site for the temporary
confinement and exchange or sale of livestock. Typical uses include sale barns.
LOADING AREA/SPACE  shall mean an off-street space or berth on the same lot
with a main building, or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary
parking of commercial vehicles while loading or unloading, and which abuts a
street, alley, or other appropriate means of ingress and egress.
LOT  shall mean a parcel or tract of land which is or may be occupied by a use
herein permitted, together with yards, and other open spaces herein required,
that has frontage upon an improved street,
and is a part of a recorded subdivision plat or has been recorded prior to the
adoption of this Ordinance, or a parcel of real property delineated on an
approved record of survey, lot-split or sub-parceling map as filed in the
office of the Kimball County Register of Deeds and abutting at least one
improved public street or right-of-way, two thoroughfare easements, or one
improved private road.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-114.png]
 
LOT, CORNER  shall mean a lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets at an angle of not more than 135 degrees. If the angle is greater than
135 degrees, the lot shall be considered an "Interior Lot". The setbacks for a
front yard shall be met on all abutting streets.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE, or THROUGH  shall mean a lot having a frontage on
two non-intersecting streets as distinguished from a corner lot.
LOT, FLAG  shall mean an interior lot, the majority of which has frontage and
access provided by means of a narrow corridor.
LOT, INTERIOR  shall mean a lot other than a corner lot.
LOT AREA  shall mean the total area, on a horizontal plane, within the lot
lines of a lot.
LOT COVERAGE  shall mean the portion of a lot or building site which is
occupied by any building or structure, excepting paved areas, walks and
swimming pools, regardless of whether said building or structure is intended
for human occupancy or not.
LOT DEPTH  shall mean the horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.
LOT FRONTAGE  shall mean the side of a lot abutting on a legally accessible
street right-of-way other than an alley or an improved county road. For the
purposes of this definition, on corner lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to
streets or roads shall be considered frontage.
LOT LINE  shall mean the property line bounding a lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT  shall mean the property line abutting a street.
LOT LINE, REAR  shall mean a lot line not abutting a street which is opposite
and most distant from the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE  shall mean any lot line not a front lot line or rear lot line.
LOT, NONCONFORMING  shall mean a lot having less area or dimension than that
required in the district in which it is located and which was lawfully created
prior to the zoning thereof whereby the larger area or dimension requirements
were established, or any lot, other than one shown on a plat recorded in the
office of the Kimball County Register of Deeds, which does not abut a public
road or public road right-of-way and which was lawfully created prior to the
effective date of this Ordinance.
LOT OF RECORD  shall mean a lot or parcel of land, the deed to which has been
recorded in the records of the Kimball County Register of Deeds at the time of
the passage of a ordinance establishing the zoning district in which the lot is
located.
LOT WIDTH  shall mean the average horizontal distance between the side lot
line, measured at right angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the
front and rear lot lines.
**** M ****
MANUFACTURED HOME  see Dwelling, Manufactured Home.
MANUFACTURING  shall mean the mechanical or chemical transformation of
materials or substances into new products. Manufacturing uses are usually
described as plants, factories, or mills and characteristically use power
driven machines and materials handling equipment. Assembling component parts of
manufactured products is also considered manufacturing if the new product
is neither a structure nor other fixed improvement. Also included is the
blending of material such as lubricating oils, plastics, resins, or liquors.
Manufacturing production is usually carried on for the wholesale market, for
interplant transfer, or to order for industrial users, rather than for direct
sale to the domestic consumer.
MANUFACTURING, CUSTOM  shall mean an establishment primarily engaged in the on-
site production of goods by hand manufacturing, within enclosed structures,
involving:
   1.   The use of hand tools, or
   2.   The use of domestic mechanical equipment not exceeding 2 horsepower, or
   3.   A single kiln not exceeding 8 KW or equivalent.
This category also includes the incidental direct sale to consumers of only
those goods produced on site. Typical uses include ceramic studios, custom
jewelry manufacturing, and candle making shops.
MASSAGE PARLOR  shall mean an establishment other than a regularly licensed and
established hospital or dispensary where non-medical manipulative exercises or
devices are practiced upon the human body manually or otherwise by any person
other than a licensed physician, surgeon, dentist, occupational or physical
therapist, chiropractor or osteopath with or without the use of therapeutic,
electrical, mechanical, or bathing devices.
MASTER FEE SCHEDULE  shall mean a fee schedule maintained by the City of
Kimball and passed, and amended periodically, which establishes the required
fees to be collected for specific Planning, Zoning, and Subdivision activities.
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT  shall mean equipment, devices, and accessories, the use
of which relates to water supply, drainage, heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, and similar purposes.
MEDICAL OFFICES  shall mean the use of a site for facilities which provide
diagnoses and outpatient care on a routine basis, but which does not provide
prolonged, in-house medical or surgical care. Medical offices are operated by
doctors, dentists, or similar practitioners licensed for practice in the State
of Nebraska.
MINI-STORAGE OR MINI-WAREHOUSE  see Self-Service Storage Facility.
MISCELLANEOUS STRUCTURES  shall mean structures, other than buildings, visible
from public ways. Examples are memorials, staging, antennas, water tanks and
towers, sheds, shelters, fences, walls, kennels, and transformers.
MIXED USE  shall mean properties where various uses, such as office,
commercial, institutional, and residential are combined in a single building or
on a single site in an integrated development
project with significant functional interrelationships and a coherent physical
design.
MIXED USE BUILDING  shall mean a building or structure that incorporates two or
more use types within a single building or structure, provided that each use
type is permitted within the individual Base Zoning District in which
the building or structure is to be located.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-116.png]
Example of Mixed-use Buildings
MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT  shall mean a single development that incorporates
complementary land use types into a single development.
MOBILE FOOD UNIT  shall mean a temporary food service establishment that is a
vehicle-mounted and is designed to be readily movable.
MOBILE HOME  see Dwelling, Mobile Home.
MOBILE HOME PARK  shall mean a parcel of land under single ownership that has
been planned and improved for the placement of manufactured or mobile housing
used or to be used for dwelling purposes and where manufactured or mobile home
spaces are not offered for sale or sold. The terms "manufactured home park" or
“mobile home park” do not include sales lots on which new or used manufactured
or mobile homes are parked for the purposes of storage, inspection, or
sale. The terms "manufactured home park" or “mobile home park”.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-118.png]
 
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION  shall mean a parcel of land that has been subdivided
and used or intended to be used for the purpose of selling lots for occupancy
by manufactured or mobile homes.
MOTEL  see Hotel.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL  shall mean a building or area in which freight brought
by motor truck is received, assembled or stored and dispatched for routing by
motor truck which may include motor truck storage.
MOTOR VEHICLE  shall mean every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon
rails, except self-propelled wheelchairs.
**** N ****
NANOBREWERY  shall mean a scaled-down microbrewery that produces three barrels
or less of beer batches.
NIGHTCLUB  shall mean a commercial establishment dispensing beverages for
consumption on the premises and in which dancing is permitted or entertainment
is provided. Also, see Bar.
NONCOMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM  shall mean any public water supply system
that is not a community water supply system.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING/DEVELOPMENT  shall mean a building or portion thereof
which was lawful when established but which does not conform to subsequently
established zoning or zoning ordinance.
NONCONFORMING LOT  shall mean a lot which was lawful prior to the adoption,
revision, or amendment of this zoning ordinance but that fails by reason of
such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present requirements of
the zoning ordinance.
NONCONFORMING SIGN  shall mean a sign that was legally erected prior to the
adoption, revision, or amendment of this zoning ordinance but that fails by
reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present
requirements of the zoning ordinance.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE  shall mean a structure which was lawful prior to the
adoption, revision, or amendment of this zoning ordinance but that fails by
reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present
requirements of the zoning ordinance.
NONCONFORMING USE  shall mean any use existing and lawful at the time of
adoption of this ordinance occupying a building, structure or land but is no
longer allowed.
NON-FARM BUILDINGS  shall mean all buildings except those buildings utilized
for agricultural purposes on a farm.
NUISANCE  shall mean anything that interferes with the use or enjoyment of
property, endangers personal health or safety, or is offensive to the senses
including, but not limited to noise, dust, odor, smoke, gas, pollution,
congestion, lighting, and litter.
NURSERY  shall mean the use of a premises for the propagation, cultivation, and
growth of trees, shrubs, plants, vines, and the like from seed or stock, and
the sale thereof, and including the sale of trees, shrubs, plants, vines, and
the like purchased elsewhere and transplanted into the soil of the premises. In
connection with the sale of plants, such fungicides, insecticides, chemicals,
peat moss, humus,
mulches, and fertilizers as are intended to be used in preserving the life and
health of the plants may be sold.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-120.png]
 
NURSING HOMES OR CONVALESCENT HOMES  shall mean an institution or agency
licensed by the State of Nebraska for the reception, board, care, or treatment
of three or more unrelated individuals, but not including facilities for the
care and treatment of mental illness, alcoholism, or narcotics addiction.
**** O ****
OFFICE  shall mean a building or a portion of a building wherein services are
performed involving, primarily, administrative, professional, or clerical
operations.
OFFICIAL ZONING DISTRICT MAP  shall mean a map delineating the boundaries of
zoning districts which, along with the zoning text, is officially adopted by
the Kimball City Council.
OFF-STREET PARKING AREA  shall mean all off street areas and spaces designed,
used, required, or intended to be used for parking, including driveways or
access ways in and to such areas.
OPEN LOTS  shall mean pens or similar concentrated areas, including small shed-
type areas or open-front buildings, with dirt, or concrete (or paved or hard)
surfaces, wherein animals or poultry are substantially or entirely exposed to
the outside environment except for possible small portions affording some
protection by windbreaks or small shed-type areas.
OPEN SPACE  shall mean a parcel or parcels of land, together with the
improvements thereon, primarily set aside for recreational use and enjoyment,
exclusive of land areas used for streets, alleys, roads, driveways, parking
areas, structures, and buildings.
OPEN SPACE, COMMON  shall mean a separate and distinct area set aside as open
space within or related to a development, and not on individually owned lots or
dedicated for public use, but
which is designed and intended for the common use or enjoyment
of the residents of the development. Rights-of-way, private streets, driveways,
parking lots or other surfaces designed or intended for vehicular use or
required yards shall not be included as common open space.
OUTDOOR ADVERTISING  see Advertising Structure and Sign.
OUTDOOR STORAGE  shall mean the storage of materials, parts, or products that
are related to the primary use of a site for a period exceeding three days.
OUTDOOR STORAGE CONTAINERS  shall mean a fully enclosed, detached, and self-
supporting structure, by itself incapable of motion or movement and not
exceeding 8 feet in width, 12 feet in height, and 40 feet in length or a total
enclosed floor area of 320 square feet. The unit must be manufactured/assembled
off-site and transportable, by means other than its own, to a location
where it is set into place on a graded surface of concrete, asphalt,
or gravel and not upon a foundation or wheels. It shall be made of metal or a
similar stable, durable, and acceptable material and shall not include a
foundation, electricity, plumbing, or other mechanical systems as part of its
assembly or use.
OUTLOT  shall mean a lot depicted on a final subdivision plat which does not
meet the requirements of this code for lots of record and which may not be used
for building or parking lots.
OVERLAY DISTRICT  shall mean a district in which additional requirements are
imposed upon a use, in conjunction with the underlying zoning district.
OWNER  shall mean an individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, or
corporation having sufficient proprietary interest to seek development of land.
**** P ****
PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE  shall mean an establishment in which
alcoholic beverages in original containers are sold for consumption off the
premises.
PAINTBALL COURSE  shall mean a commercial recreational park containing obstacle
courses for the purpose of staging paintball battles. Said facility generally
collects a fee, either as membership or on a visit-by-visit basis that allows
individuals to participate in paintball activities.
PARCEL  shall mean a lot or a contiguous group of lots in single ownership or
under single control, which may be considered as a unit for purposes of
development.
PARK  shall mean any public or private land available for recreational,
educational, cultural, or aesthetic use.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE  shall mean an area, other than a street, used for the
parking of automotive vehicles capable of moving under their own power and
restricted from general public use.
PARKING AREA, PUBLIC  shall mean an area, other than a private parking area or
street used for the parking of vehicles capable of moving under their own
power, either free or for remuneration.
PARKING LOT  shall mean an area consisting of one or more parking spaces for
motor vehicles together with a driveway connecting the parking area with a
street or alley and permitting ingress and egress for motor vehicles.
PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE  shall mean an area, other than a street
or alley, reserved for the parking of an automobile, such space having a
dimension not less than nine feet by 20 feet, plus such additional area as is
necessary to afford adequate ingress and egress.
PAVED  shall mean permanently surfaced with poured concrete, concrete pavers,
or asphalt.
PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE  shall mean a financial guarantee to ensure that all
improvements, facilities, or work required by this chapter will be completed in
compliance with this ordinance as well as with approved plans and
specifications of a development.
PERMANENT FOUNDATION  shall mean a base constructed from either poured concrete
or laid masonry rock or brick and placed on a footing located below ground
level to a point below the frost line upon which a building or structure is
permanently attached.
PERMANENT STORAGE  shall mean the long-term storage on-site within an accessory
building or structure.
PERMITTED USE  shall mean any land use allowed without condition within a
zoning district.
PERMANENTLY ATTACHED  shall mean attached to real estate in such a way as
to require dismantling, cutting away, unbolting from permanent foundation or
structural change in such structure in order to relocate it to another site.
PERSON  shall mean an individual, firm, co-partnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, corporation, estate, trust,
receiver, syndicate, city, county, special district or any other group or
combination acting as an entity, except that it shall not include Kimball,
Nebraska.
PERSONAL SERVICES  shall mean uses providing human services exclusively to
private individuals as the ultimate consumer. Personal services shall not be
limited to but including grocery shopping services, tailoring and alterations,
hair salons, spas, nail salons, barber shops, private household services and
temporary personal in-home care.
PERSONAL WORKSHOP  shall mean any non-commercial building or structure that is
used to make or repair items for personal recreation and wherein such items are
not sold to other persons.
PET SHOP  shall mean a retail establishment primarily involved in the sale of
domestic animals, such as dogs, cats, fish, birds, and reptiles, excluding
exotic animals and farm animals.
PLANNING COMMISSION  shall mean the Planning Commission of Kimball, Nebraska.
PLANT MATERIALS  shall mean trees, shrubs, vines, ground covers, grass,
perennials, annuals, and bulbs and other such vegetation.
PLAT  shall mean a map showing the location, boundaries, and legal description
of individual properties.
POLE BUILDING  shall mean a structure built with no foundation or footings,
using poles embedded directly in the ground as its primary support to hold
metal, plastic, fiberglass or wood covering to form the building.
POLICY  shall mean a statement or document of the City, such as the
comprehensive plan, that forms the basis for enacting legislation or making
decisions.
PORCH, UNENCLOSED  shall mean a roofed or unroofed open structure projecting
from an exterior wall of a building and having no enclosed features more than
thirty inches above its floor other than wire screening and a roof with
supporting structure.
PREMISES  shall mean a tract of land, consisting of one lot or irregular tract,
or more than one lot or irregular tract, provided such lots or tracts are under
common ownership, contiguous, and used as a single tract. A building or land
within a prescribed area.
PRESERVATION  shall mean the act of protecting an area, parcel of land, or
structure from being changed or modified from the present character to another
that is not representative of a specific period or condition.
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE  shall mean the main building or structure on a lot, within
which the main or primary use of the lot or premises is located.
PRINCIPAL USE  shall mean the main use of land or structure, as distinguished
from an accessory use.
PROHIBITED USE  shall mean any use of land, other than nonconforming, which is
not listed as a permitted use, conditional use or accessory use within a zoning
district.
PROMOTIONAL DEVICE  shall mean any sign intended to be displayed either with or
without a frame, with or without characters, letters, illustrations, or other
material, on a fabric of any kind. National flags, flags of political
subdivisions, or symbolic flags of any institutions or business shall be
considered a promotional device for the purpose of this definition. Banners,
pennants, inflatable characters, streamers, or fringe-type ribbons or piping
shall be considered as a promotional device.
PROTECTED ZONE  shall mean all lands that fall outside the buildable areas of a
parcel, all areas of a parcel required to remain in open space, and/or all
areas required as landscaping strips according to the provisions of the Zoning
Ordinance.
PUBLIC UTILITY  shall mean any business which furnishes the general public
telephone service, telegraph service, electricity, natural gas, water and
sewer, or any other business so affecting the public interest as to be subject
to the supervision or regulation by an agency of the state or federal
government.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY  shall mean a water supply system designed to provide
public piped water fit for human consumption, if such system has at least 15
service connections or regularly serves at least 25 individuals. This
definition shall include: (1) Any collection, treatment, storage, or
distribution facilities under the control of the operator of
such system and used primarily in connection with such system; and (2) Any
collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under such control which are
used primarily in the connection with such system.
**** Q ****
QUARRY  shall mean an open pit from which building stone, sand, gravel,
mineral, or fill is taken to be processed for commercial purposes.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-122.png]
 
QUARRY REHABILITATION  shall mean providing slopes to be covered with a layer
of soil and revegetated where practical. It applies to the rehabilitation of
all kinds of sand, gravel, and rock excavations to obtain fill or construction
materials and from which no further removal of materials is intended, as well
as to resource extraction. Rehabilitation is intended to minimize the hazardous
and unsightly nature of abandoned pits, and if practical, to return the area to
some productive use.
QUONSET HOME , see Dwelling Unit, Special Types
**** R ****
RECREATION, INDOOR  shall mean a facility for relaxation, diversion, amusement
or entertainment where such activity occurs within a building or structure.
RECREATION, OUTDOOR  shall mean a facility for relaxation, diversion, amusement
or entertainment in which some or all of the activities occur on the exterior
but within the property of the facility.
RECREATIONAL FACILITY  shall mean facilities for the use by the public for
passive and active recreation including, but not limited to, tennis, handball,
racquetball, pickleball, basketball, track and field, jogging, baseball,
softball, football, soccer, skating, swimming, disc golf, or golf. This shall
include country clubs and athletic clubs, but not facilities accessory to a
private residence used only by the owner and guests, nor arenas or stadiums
used primarily for spectators to watch athletic events. In addition,
recreational facilities shall mean museums, amphitheaters, race tracks
(including all motor powered vehicles) and wildlife conservation areas (used
for public viewing), and theme parks.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV)  shall mean a vehicular unit primarily designed as a
temporary living quarter for recreational camping or travel use having either
its own power or designed to be mounted on or drawn by a motor
vehicle. Recreational vehicle includes motor home, truck camper, travel
trailer, camping trailer, and fifth wheel.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK  shall mean a tract of land upon which two or
more recreational vehicle sites are located,
established, or maintained for occupancy by recreational vehicles of the
general public as temporary living quarters for recreation or vacation purposes
by campers, vacationers, or travelers.
RECYCLING CENTER  shall mean a building in which used material is separated and
processed prior to shipment to others who will use those materials to
manufacture new products. The facility is not a junkyard.
RECYCLING COLLECTION  shall mean a collection point for small refuse items,
such as bottles and newspapers, located either in a container or small
structure.
RECYCLING PROCESSING  shall mean any site which is used for the
processing of any postconsumer, nondurable goods including, but not limited to
glass, plastic, paper, cardboard, aluminum, tin, or other recyclable
commodities.
REDEVELOPMENT  shall mean the act of preserving and/or rehabilitating existing
buildings. In extreme cases, a building or structure could be demolished for
the purpose of a new use or building.
REMOTE PARKING  shall mean a supply of off-street parking at a location not on
the site of a given development.
RENEWABLE ENERGY  shall mean energy sources including wind, solar power,
biomass, and hydropower, that can be regenerated and that is much less
polluting than nuclear or fossil fuels.
RENEWABLE RESOURCE  shall mean a natural resource that is able to regenerate,
either by itself or with human assistance, over a short to moderate time
period, including food crops and trees.
RESIDENCE  shall mean a building used, designed, or intended to be used as a
home or dwelling place for one or more families.
RESTAURANT  shall mean a public eating establishment operated for profit at
which the primary function is the preparation and serving of food primarily to
persons seated within the building.
RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN  shall mean a restaurant establishment that has the
facilities to serve prepared food and/or beverages to customers seated within
motor vehicles for consumption either on or off the premises.
RESTAURANT, ENTERTAINMENT  shall mean a restaurant establishment where food and
drink are prepared, served, and consumed, within a building or structure that
integrally includes electronic and mechanical games of skill, simulation, and
virtual reality, play areas, video arcades or similar uses, billiards, and
other forms of amusement.
RESOURCE EXTRACTION  shall mean a use involving on-site extraction of surface
or subsurface mineral products or natural resources, excluding the grading and
removal of dirt. Typical uses are quarries, borrow pits, sand and gravel
operations, mining.
RETAIL SALES AND SERVICES  shall mean commercial establishments engaged in
selling of goods or merchandise to the general public for personal or household
consumption; and commercial establishments provided services or entertainment
as permitted.
RETENTION BASIN  shall mean a pond, pool, or basin used for the permanent
storage of stormwater runoff.
RETIREMENT RESIDENCE  shall mean a building or group of buildings which provide
residential facilities, provided that 75% of residents are at least sixty-two
years of age or households headed by a householder of at least sixty-two years
of age. A retirement residence may provide a range of residential building
types and may also provide support services to residents, including but not
limited to food service, general health supervision, medication services,
housekeeping services, personal services, recreation facilities, and
transportation services. The retirement residence may accommodate food
preparation in independent units or meal service in one or more common areas.
Retirement residences may include additional health care supervision or nursing
care.
REZONING  shall mean an amendment to or change in the zoning ordinance either
to the text or map or both.
REZONING, PIECEMEAL  shall mean the zoning reclassification of individual lots
resulting in uncertainty in the future compatible development of the area.
RIGHT-OF-WAY  shall mean a strip of land, generally linear, occupied or
intended to be occupied by a system that conveys people, traffic, fluids,
utilities, or energy from one point to another. Rights-of-way may include
streets and roads, crosswalks, bicycle paths, recreational trails, railroads or
fixed guideway transit, electric transmission lines, gas pipelines, water
mains, or sewer mains.
ROAD, PRIVATE  shall mean a way, other than driveways, open to vehicular
ingress and egress established for the benefit of certain, adjacent properties.
Also, see Right-of-way and Street.
ROAD, PUBLIC  shall mean all public rights-of-way reserved or dedicated for
street or road traffic. Also, see Right-of-Way and Street.
ROOM  shall mean an unsubdivided portion of the interior of a dwelling unit,
excluding bathroom, kitchen, closets, hallways, and service porches.
**** S ****
SALVAGE SERVICES  shall mean places of business engaged in the storage, sale,
dismantling or other processing of used or waste materials which are not
intended for reuse in their original forms.
SAND OR GRAVEL PIT  shall mean land used for the extraction of sand and/or
gravel for public and/or commercial use.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-124.png]
 
SANITARY LANDFILL  shall mean a type of operation in which garbage
and refuse, or garbage, or refuse is deposited by a plan on a specified portion
of land, and is compacted by force applied by mechanical equipment, and then is
covered by compacted suitable covering material to a depth of at least six to
twelve inches over individual cells of garbage and/or refuse, which are closed
at the end of each day, and to a depth of at least twenty-four inches over the
finished landfill.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-126.png]
Aerial view of a Sanitary Landfill
SANITARY TRANSFER STATION  shall mean a collection point for temporary storage
of refuse. No processing of refuse would be allowed. The transfer station must
be in conformance with the requirements of all state and federal agencies.
SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA  shall mean a round, parabolic antenna incorporating a
reflective surface that is solid, open mesh, or bar configured and is in the
shape of a shallow dish, or cone and used to transmit and/or receive radio or
electromagnetic waves. Also, see Antenna.
SCHOOL, BUSINESS OR TRADE  shall mean a use providing education or training in
business, commerce, language, or other similar activity or occupational
pursuit, and not otherwise defined as a home occupation, college or university,
or public or private educational facility.
SCHOOL, DAY, PRE-, OR NURSERY  shall mean a school or center for children under
school age, whether licensed as a day care center or not. Such shall be
approved by the Nebraska State Fire Marshall as being in conformance with
safety provisions pursuant to the National Fire Protection Association,
Pamphlet 101, known as the Life Safety Code and shall be approved by the
Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services as meeting their health and
welfare standards.
SCREENING  shall mean a structure or planting that conceals from public view
the area behind such structure or planting.
SELF-SERVICE STATION  shall mean an establishment where motor fuels are stored
and dispensed into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles by persons other than the
service station attendant and may include facilities available for the sale of
other retail products.
SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY  shall mean a building or group of buildings
containing individual, compartmentalized, and controlled access stalls or
lockers for storage.
SEPARATE OWNERSHIP  shall mean ownership of a parcel of land by a person who
does not own any of the land abutting such parcel.
SEPTIC SITE  shall mean the area bounded by the dimensions required for the
proper location of the septic tank system.
SERVICE STATION  shall mean buildings and premises where the primary use is the
supply and dispensing at retail of motor fuels, lubricants, batteries, tires,
and motor vehicle accessories and where light maintenance activities such as
engine tune-ups, lubrications, and washing may be conducted, but not including
heavy maintenance and repair such as engine overhauls, painting, and body
repair.
SETBACK  shall mean the minimum distance, as prescribed by this ordinance,
measured from the edge of the eve or other similar building component located
closest to the lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-128.png]
 
SETBACK LINE, FRONT YARD  see Yard, Front
SETBACK LINE, REAR YARD  see Yard, Rear
SETBACK LINE, SIDE YARD  see Yard, Side
SHARED WORKSPACE  shall mean a structure providing individualized office
workspace space for a limited time period for a fee.
SHORT-TERM RENTALS  shall mean any dwelling or portion thereof that is
available for use or is used for accommodations or lodging of guests paying a
fee or other compensation for a period of less than 30 consecutive days.
SHOUSE , see Dwelling Unit, Special Types
SHRUB  shall mean a multi-stemmed woody plant other than a tree.
SIGHT TRIANGLE  is an area at a street intersection in which nothing shall be
erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially
impede vision between a height of two and one-half feet and 10 feet above the
grades of the bottom of the curb of the intersecting streets, measured from the
point of intersection of the centerline of the streets along the centerline of
the streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-130.png]
 
SIGN  shall mean and include any outdoor sign, display,
declaration, device, figure, drawing, illustration, message, placard, poster,
billboard, insignia, or other things which are designed, intended, or used for
direction, information, identification, or to advertise, to inform, or to
promote any business, product activity, service, or any interest.
SIMILAR USE  shall mean the use of land, buildings, or structures of like kind
or general nature with other uses within a zoning district as related to bulk,
intensity of use, traffic generation and congestion, function, public services
requirements, aesthetics or other similarities.
SITE  shall mean the parcel of land to be developed or built upon. A site may
encompass a single lot; a portion of a lot; or a group of lots
developed as a common development under the special and overlay districts
provisions of this ordinance.
SITE BREAK  shall mean a structural or landscape device used to interrupt long
vistas and create visual interest in a site development.
SITE PLAN  shall mean a plan, prepared to scale, showing accurately and with
complete dimensioning, the boundaries of a site and the location of all
buildings, structures, uses, drives, parking, drainage, landscape features, and
other principal site development improvements for a specific parcel of land.
SKATE, IN-LINE  shall mean a boot-type device, which is placed on an
individual’s feet. In-line skates contain wheels on the bottom of the boot,
which are attached in linear fashion.
SKATE PARK  shall mean a recreational facility containing skateboard ramps and
other obstacle courses and devices for the use with skateboards and in-line
skates.
SKATEBOARD  shall mean a foot board mounted upon four or more wheels and is
usually propelled by the user who sometimes stands, sits, kneels, or lies upon
the device while it is in motion.
SKATEBOARD PARK or SKATEBOARD HALF PIPE  shall mean an outdoor structure that
is shaped into a half circle or oval that is designed and principally intended
to permit persons on skateboards to move continuously from one side to the
other.
SKATEBOARD RAMP  shall mean an outdoor structure with an upward inclined
surface, essentially one of the sides of a pipe, which are designed and
principally intended to permit persons on skateboards to move from horizontal
to vertical and back to horizontal.
SLUDGE  shall mean solids removed from sewage during wastewater treatment and
then disposed of by incineration, dumping, burial, or land application.
SMALL-SCALE MANUFACTURING  shall mean a manufacturing process with a small
number of employees, typically utilizing local materials, which strengthens the
local supply chain. These businesses typically include production of artisan
goods in small batches.
SOLID WASTE  shall mean waste materials consisting of garbage, trash, refuse,
rubble, sewage, offal, dead animals, or paunch manure.
SPOT ZONING  shall mean an arbitrary zoning or rezoning of a small tract of
land that is not consistent with the comprehensive land use plan and primarily
promotes the private interest of the owner rather than the general
welfare. Spot zoning usually results from an upzoning to a more intensive use
classification.
STABLE AND/OR RIDING ACADEMIES  shall mean the buildings, pens and pasture
areas used for the boarding and feeding of horses, llamas, or other equine not
owned by the occupants of the premises. This use includes instruction in
riding, jumping, and showing or the riding of horses/equine for hire.
STANDARD SYSTEM  shall mean a sewage treatment system employing a building
sewer, septic tank, and a standard soil absorption system.
STOCKPILING  shall mean the accumulation of manure in mounds, piles, or other
exposed and non-engineered site locations for storage or holding purposes for a
period of not more than one year.
STORAGE  shall mean the keeping, in a roofed or unroofed area, of any goods,
junk, material, merchandise, or vehicles on the same tract or premises for more
than 30 days.
STORAGE CONTAINER, PORTABLE  shall mean any container that can be loaded onto
the chassis of a semi-trailer for the purpose of hauling materials and
commodities. Portable storage containers are intended to be used as a load on-
site and haul-off for storage off-site. Another
name for these containers is Portable On Demand Storage.
STORM DRAIN  shall mean a conduit that carries natural storm and surface water
drainage but not sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling
water.
STORMWATER DETENTION  shall mean any storm drainage technique that retards or
detains runoff, such as a detention or retention basin, parking lot storage,
rooftop storage, porous pavement, dry wells, or any combination thereof.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT  shall mean the collecting, conveyance, channeling,
holding, retaining, detaining, infiltrating, diverting, treating, or filtering
of surface water, or groundwater, and/or runoff, together with applicable
managerial (non-structural) measures.
STORMWATER RETENTION AREA  shall mean an area designed by a licensed
professional engineer and approved by the City to retain water to control the
flow of stormwater.
STORMWATER RUNOFF  shall mean surplus surface water generated by rainfall that
does not seep into the earth but flows over land to flowing or stagnant bodies
of water.
STORY  shall mean a space in a building between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor above, or if there is not floor above, then the space
between such floor and the ceiling or roof above.
STREET  shall mean a public thoroughfare or right-of-way dedicated, deeded, or
condemned for use as such, other than an alley, which affords the principal
means of access to abutting property including avenue, place, way, drive, lane,
boulevard, highway, road and any other thoroughfare except as excluded in this
Ordinance.
STREET, ARTERIAL  shall mean a street designed with the
primary function of efficient movement of through traffic between and around
areas of a city or county with controlled access to abutting property.
STREET, COLLECTOR  shall mean a street or highway, which is intended to carry
traffic from minor streets to major streets. Collector streets are usually the
principal entrance streets to residential developments and the streets for
circulation within the development.
STREET, COURT  shall mean an approved private right-of-way which provides
access to residential properties and meets at least three of the following
conditions:
   1.   Serves twelve or fewer housing units or platted lots.
   2.   Does not function as a local street because of its alignment, design,
or location.
   3.   Is completely internal to a development.
   4.   Does not exceed 600 feet in length.
STREET, CURVILINEAR  shall mean local streets that deviate from straight
alignment and change direction without sharp corners or bends.
STREET, LOCAL  shall mean a street designed for local traffic that
provides direct access to abutting residential, commercial, or industrial
properties.
STREET, LOOPED  shall mean a continuous local street without intersecting
streets and having its two outlets connected to the same street.
STREET, MAJOR  shall mean a street or highway used primarily for fast or high-
volume traffic, including expressways, freeways, boulevards, and arterial
streets.
STREET, PRIVATE  shall mean an open, unoccupied space, other than a
street or alley dedicated to the public, but permanently established as the
principal means of vehicular access to abutting properties. The term "private
street" includes the term "place".
STREET, SIDE  shall mean that street bounding a corner or reversed corner lot
and which extends in the same general direction as the line determining the
depth of the lot.
STREET CENTERLINE  shall mean the centerline of a street right-of-way as
established by official surveys.
STREET FRONTAGE  shall mean the distance for which a lot line of
a zone lot adjoins a public street, from one lot line intersecting said street
to the furthest distant lot line intersecting the same street.
STREET, FRONTAGE ACCESS  shall mean a street parallel and adjacent to a major
street, major inter-regional highway, or major collection road and primarily
for service to the abutting properties and being separated from the major
street by a dividing strip.
STREET HARDWARE  shall mean man-made objects other than buildings that are part
of the streetscape. Examples include but are not limited to lamp posts, utility
poles, traffic signs, benches, litter containers, planting containers, letter
boxes, and fire hydrants.
STREET LINE  shall mean a dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of land
and the contiguous street.
STREETSCAPE  shall mean the scene as may be observed along a public street or
way composed of natural and man-made components, including buildings, paving,
plantings, street hardware, and miscellaneous structures.
STRUCTURE  shall mean anything constructed or built, any edifice or building of
any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts
joined together in some definite manner, which requires location on the ground
or is attached to something having a location on the ground, including swimming
and wading pools and covered patios, excepting outdoor areas such as paved
areas, walks, tennis courts, and similar recreation areas.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION  shall mean any change in the support
members of a building, such as in a bearing wall, column, beam or girder, floor
or ceiling joists, roof rafters, roof diaphragms, foundations, piles, or
retaining walls or similar components.
SUBDIVISION  shall mean the division of land, lot, tract, or parcel into two or
more lots, parcels, plats, or sites, or other divisions of land for the purpose
of sale, lease, offer, or development, whether immediate or future. The term
shall also include the division of residential, commercial, industrial,
agricultural, or other land whether by deed, metes, and bounds description,
lease, map, plat, or other instrument.
SURFACE WATERS  shall mean all waters within the jurisdiction of this state,
including all streams, lakes, ponds, impounding reservoirs, marshes, wetlands,
watercourses, waterways, springs, canal systems, drainage systems, and all
other bodies or accumulations of water, natural or artificial, public or
private, situated wholly or partly within or bordering upon the state.
SURPLUS SALES  shall mean businesses engaged in the sale of used or new items,
involving regular, periodic outdoor display of merchandise for sale. Typical
uses include flea markets and factory outlets or discount businesses with
outdoor display.
SWIMMING POOL, PRIVATE  shall mean a pool which is an accessory use to a
residence and for the exclusive use of the occupants of the residential
building and their guests.
**** T ****
TANNING STUDIO  shall mean any business that uses artificial lighting systems
to produce a tan on an individual’s body. These facilities may be either a
stand-alone business or as an accessory use in spas, gymnasiums, athletic
clubs, health clubs, and styling salons. This use is not included with any type
of adult establishment.
TATTOO PARLOR/BODY PIERCING STUDIO  shall mean an establishment whose principal
business activity is the practice of tattooing and/or piercing the body of
paying customers.
TAVERN  see Bar.
TAXIDERMY SERVICES  shall mean an operation conducted solely within an enclosed
building to include on-site preparation, stuffing, and mounting of heads and
skins of animals. Exterior storage or processing of carcasses or parts of
animals shall be prohibited.
TEMPORARY USE  shall mean a use intended for limited duration to be located in
a zoning district not permitting such use.
TERRACE  shall mean a raised earthen embankment with the top leveled. A terrace
may be supported by a retaining wall.
THEATER  shall mean a building or structure used for dramatic, operatic, motion
pictures, or other performance, for admission to which entrance money is
received and limited audience participation or meal service.
TINY HOUSE , see Dwelling Unit, Special Types
TOWER  shall mean a structure situated on a site that is intended for
transmitting or receiving television, radio, or telephone communications. Also,
see Antenna.
TOWNHOUSE  shall mean a one-family dwelling unit, with a private
entrance in a group of three or more units where the unit and land are in the
ownership of the same owner, which part of a structure whose dwelling units are
attached horizontally in a linear arrangement and having a totally exposed
front and rear wall to be used for access, light, and ventilation.
TRACT  shall mean a lot or contiguous group of lots in single ownership or
under single control, usually considered a unit for purposes of development.
TRAILER, AUTOMOBILE  shall mean a vehicle without motive power,
designed and constructed to travel on the public thoroughfares and to be used
for human habitation or for carrying property, including a trailer coach.
TRANSITIONAL  HOUSING  OR  HALFWAY  HOUSE   shall  mean a community-based
residential facility that provides short-term (120 days or less) room and board
in a supervised living environment utilizing counseling and rehabilitation
services for persons with a history of juvenile delinquency, behavioral
disorders, alcoholism, or drug abuse.
TREE COVER  shall mean an area directly beneath the crown and within the
dripline of the tree.
TREE HOUSE DWELLING , see Dwelling Unit, Special Types
TRUCK REPAIR  shall mean the repair, including major mechanical and body work,
straightening of body parts, painting, welding, or other work that may include
noise, glare, fumes, smoke, or other characteristics to an extent greater than
normally found in gasoline service stations, of trucks having a hauling
capacity of over one ton and buses but excluding pickups and other vehicles
designed for the transport of under eight passengers.
TRUCK WASH  shall mean a mechanical facility for the washing, waxing and
vacuuming of heavy trucks and buses.
**** U ****
UPPER STORY HOUSING  shall be defined as one or more dwelling units located
above the first floor where allowed within a commercial district.
UPZONING  shall mean a change in zoning classification of land to a more
intensive or less restrictive district such as from residential district to
commercial district or from a single-family residential district to a multiple
family residential district.
USE  shall mean the purpose or activity for which land or buildings are
designed, arranged, or intended or for which land or buildings are occupied or
maintained.
USE, BEST  shall mean the recommended use or uses of land
confined in an adopted comprehensive plan. Such use represents the best use of
public facilities, and promotes health, safety and general welfare.
USE, CONDITIONAL  shall mean a use permitted in a particular zoning district
upon showing that such use in a specified location
will comply with all the conditions and standards for the location or operation
of the use as specified in the zoning ordinance and authorized by the approving
agency.
USE, HIGHEST  shall mean an appraisal or real estate market concept that
identifies the use of a specific tract of land that is most likely to produce
the greatest net return on investment.
USED MATERIALS YARD  shall mean any lot or a portion of any lot used for the
storage of used materials. This shall not include "Junk Yards" or "Automobile
Wrecking Yards".
UTILITARIAN STRUCTURE  shall mean a structure or enclosure relating to
mechanical or electrical services to a building or development.
UTILITY EASEMENT  see Easement
UTILITY HARDWARE  shall mean devices such as poles, crossarms, transformers and
vaults, gas pressure regulating assemblies, hydrants, and buffalo boxes that
are used for water, gas, oil, sewer, and electrical services to a building or a
project.
UTILITIES, OVERHEAD OR UNDERGROUND "LOCAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM OF”  shall mean
the local service distribution circuit or lines and related appurtenances
served from a substation, town border station, reservoir, or terminal facility
which is served from a main supply line, main transmission line, or main feeder
line as may be applicable to electric, communications, gas, fuel, petroleum,
fertilizer, or other chemical utilities. Local electric distribution systems
shall include all lines and appurtenances carrying a primary voltage of less
than 161 KV from an electric transformer substation to the consumer. The local
telephone distribution system shall be limited to include the local exchange
lines, the local toll lines, and the local communications equipment facilities
structure.
UTILITIES, OVERHEAD OR UNDERGROUND "TRANSMISSION LINE, SUPPLY
LINE, WHOLESALE CARRIER OR TRUNK LINE, MAIN FEEDER LINE", or other  applicable
designation shall mean the main supply or feeder line
serving a local distribution system of utilities, and shall include but is not
limited to pumping stations, substations, regulating stations, generator
facilities, reservoirs, tank farms, processing facilities, terminal facilities,
towers, and relay stations, and treatment plants.
UTILITY SERVICE  shall mean any device, including wire, pipe, and conduit,
which carries gas, water, electricity, oil and communications into a building
or development.
**** V ****
VALUE  shall mean the estimated cost to replace a structure in kind, based on
current replacement costs.
VARIANCE  shall mean a relief from or variation of the provisions of this
chapter, other than use regulations, as applied to a specific piece of
property, as distinct from rezoning.
VEGETATION  shall mean trees, shrubs, and vines.
VEHICLE  shall mean every device in, upon, or by which any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved
solely by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
VEHICLE STORAGE  shall mean storage of operating or non-operating vehicles for
a period of no more than 21 days. Typical uses include storage of private
parking tow-aways or impound yards but exclude dismantling or salvage.
VEHICLE STORAGE, LONG TERM  shall mean storage of operating or non-operating
vehicles for a period exceeding 21 days. Typical uses include storage of
private parking tow-aways or impound yards but exclude dismantling or salvage.
VENDING MACHINE  shall mean any unattended self-service device that, upon
insertion of a coin, coins, tokens, debit and/or
credit cards or by similar means, dispenses food, beverage, goods, rental
materials, wares, merchandise, or services.
VENDING MACHINE, REVERSE  shall mean an automated mechanical device that
accepts at least one or more types of empty
beverage containers, including but not limited to aluminum cans and glass or
plastic bottles and that issues a cash refund or a redeemable credit, provided
that the entire process is enclosed within the entire machine. A reverse
vending machine may be
designed to accept more than one container at a time, paying by weight instead
of the container.
VETERINARY SERVICES  shall mean services and hospitals
for animals. Typical uses include pet clinics, dog and cat hospitals, pet
cemeteries, and veterinary hospitals for livestock and large animals.
VISUAL OBSTRUCTION  shall mean any fence, hedge, tree, shrub, wall or structure
exceeding two feet in height, measured from the crown of intersecting or
intercepting streets, alleys or driveways, which limit the visibility of
persons in motor vehicles on said streets, alleys, or driveways. This does not
include trees kept trimmed of branches below a minimum height of eight feet.
**** W ****
WAREHOUSE  shall mean a building used primarily for the storage of goods and
materials.
WAREHOUSE AND DISTRIBUTION  shall mean a use engaged in storage, wholesale, and
distribution of manufactured products, supplies, and equipment.
WAREHOUSING (ENCLOSED)  shall mean uses including storage, warehousing,
distribution, and handling of goods and materials within enclosed structures.
Typical uses include wholesale distributors, storage
warehouses, and van and storage companies.
WAREHOUSING (OPEN)  shall mean uses including open air storage, distribution,
and handling of goods and materials. Typical uses include monument yards,
materials yards, open storage.
WASTEWATER LAGOON  see Lagoon.
WATERCOURSE  shall mean natural or once naturally flowing water, either
perennially or intermittently, including rivers, streams, creeks, and other
natural waterways. Includes waterways that have been channelized, but does not
include manmade channels, ditches, and underground drainage and sewage systems.
WATERS OF THE STATE  shall mean all waters within the jurisdiction of this
state, including all streams, lakes, ponds, impounding reservoirs, marshes,
wetlands, watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, irrigation systems, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water surface or underground,
material or artificial, public or private, situated wholly within or bordering
upon the state.
WETLAND  shall mean an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or
ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that, under
normal circumstances, does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically
adapted for life in saturated soiled conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic
vegetation.
WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT  shall mean an establishment for the on-
premises sales of goods primarily to customers engaged in the business of
reselling the goods.
WHOLESALE TRADE  shall mean the selling merchandise to retailers; to
industrial, commercial, institutional, farm or professional business users; or
to other wholesalers; or buyers acting as agents or brokers in buying
merchandise for or selling merchandise to such persons or companies. The
principal types of establishments included are: Merchant wholesalers; sales
branches and sales offices (but not retail stores) maintained by manufacturing
enterprises apart from their plants for the purpose of marketing their
products; agents, merchandise or commodity brokers, and commission merchants;
petroleum bulk
storage, assemblers, buyers, and associations engaged in cooperative marketing
of farm products. The chief functions of uses in wholesale trade are selling
goods to trading establishments, or to industrial, commercial, institutional,
farm and professional; and bringing buyer and seller together. In additional to
selling, functions frequently performed by wholesale establishments include
maintaining inventories of goods; extending credit; physically assembling,
sorting and grading goods in large lots, breaking bulk and redistribution in
smaller lots; delivery; refrigeration; and various types of promotion such as
advertising and label designing.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION TOWER  shall mean a structure for the transmission or
broadcast of cellular, radio, television, radar, or microwaves which exceed the
maximum height permitted in the district in which it is located; provided,
however, that noncommercial radio towers not exceeding 50 feet in height shall
not be considered wireless communication towers.
**** X ****
XERISCAPING  shall mean landscaping characterized by the use of
vegetation that is drought-tolerant or a low water use in character.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-132.png]
 
**** Y ****
YARD  shall mean any open space on the same lot with a building or a dwelling
group, which open space is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward
to the sky, except for building projections or for accessory buildings or
structures permitted by this Ordinance.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-134.png]
 
YARD, FRONT  shall mean a space between the front yard setback line and the
front lot line or highway setback line, and extending the full width of the
lot.
YARD, REAR  shall mean a space between the rear yard setback line and the rear
lot line, extending the full width of the lot.
YARD, SIDE  shall mean a space extending from the front yard or from the front
lot line where no front yard is required by this Ordinance, to the rear yard,
or rear lot line, between a side lot line and the side yard setback line.
YURT  shall mean a permanently built on a wooden platform using modern
materials such as steam-bent wooden framing or metal
framing, canvas or tarpaulin, plexiglass dome, wire rope, or radiant
insulation.
**** Z ****
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR  shall mean the person or persons authorized and empowered
by the City to administer and enforce the requirements of this chapter.
ZONING DISTRICT  see District
ZONING DISTRICT, CHANGE OF  shall mean the legislative act of removing one or
more parcels of land from one zoning district and placing them in another
zoning district on the zone map of the City.
Article 3: Districts and Official Map
Section 3.01 Districts
   In order to regulate and restrict the height, location, size and type of
buildings, structures and uses allowed on land in the City and the area within
one mile of the corporate boundaries, the City is hereby divided into
districts.
Section 3.02  Provision for Official Zoning Map
   1.   The City is hereby divided into districts, as shown on the Official
Zoning Map, which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this Ordinance. The Official
Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor, attested by the
City Clerk, and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: "This
is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in Section 3.02
of Ordinance No. _828_ of the City of Kimball, Nebraska", together with the
date of the adoption of this Ordinance. If, in accordance with the provisions
of this Ordinance, changes are made in the district boundaries or other
matter portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, such changes shall be entered on
the Official Zoning Map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the
City Council.
   2.   In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed,
lost or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the City Council may by resolution adopt a new Official Zoning Map.
The new Official Zoning Map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions
in the prior Official Zoning Map, but no such correction shall have the effect
of amending the original Official Zoning Map or any subsequent amendment
thereof. The new Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of
the Mayor attested by the City Clerk and bearing the seal of the City under the
following words: "This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes
and replaces the Official Zoning Map adopted by Ordinance No. 828 of the City
of Kimball Nebraska." Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has been lost, or
has been totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof
remaining shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining to
its adoption or amendment.
Article 4: General Provisions
Section 4.01  Planning Commission Recommendations
   Pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. §19-901, it shall be the purpose of the Planning
Commission to hold public hearings upon, and make recommendations to the
legislative body, regarding proposed amendments to the comprehensive plan and
zoning ordinance within the jurisdiction of the City.
   The Commission shall make a preliminary report and hold public hearings
thereon before submitting its final report, and the City Council shall not hold
its public hearings or take action until it has received the final report of
the Commission.
Section 4.02  District Regulations, Restrictions, Boundary Creation
   No such regulation, restriction, or boundary shall become effective until
after a public hearing in relation thereto, at which parties in interest and
citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and
place of such hearings shall be given by publication thereof in a paper of
general circulation in the City at least one time ten days prior to such
hearing.
Section 4.03 Jurisdiction
   The provisions of this Ordinance shall apply within the corporate limits of
the City of Kimball, Nebraska, and within the territory beyond said corporate
limits as now or hereafter fixed, for a distance of one mile, as established on
the map entitled "The Official Zoning Map of the City of Kimball, Nebraska",
and as may be amended by subsequent annexation.
Section 4.04  Provisions of Ordinance Declared to be Minimum Requirements
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Ordinance
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. Whenever the provisions of
this Ordinance are in conflict with the provisions of any other ordinance or
municipal law, the ordinance or municipal law with the most restrictive
provisions shall govern.
Section 4.05  Zoning Affects Every Building and Use
   No building or land shall hereafter be used or reused, and no building or
part thereof shall be erected, moved or altered unless for a use expressly
permitted by and in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the
district in which it is located, except that any structure damaged or destroyed
may be restored if such structure does not involve a non-conforming use.
Section 4.06 Lot
   1.   Every building hereafter erected, reconstructed, converted, moved or
structurally altered shall be located on a lot or lot of record and in no case
shall there be more than one principal building on a lot unless otherwise
provided.
   2.   More than one principal building of a single permitted use may be
located upon a lot or tract in the following instances if recommended by the
Planning Commission and approved by the City Council.
      A.   Institutional buildings
      B.   Public or semi-public buildings
      C.   Multiple-family dwellings
      D.   Commercial or industrial buildings
      E.   Housing for the Elderly
      F.   Agricultural buildings
      G.   Mixed use development concepts
Section 4.07  Reductions in Lot Area Prohibited
   No lot, even though it may consist of one or more adjacent lots of record,
shall be reduced in area so that yards, lot area per family, lot width,
building area, or other requirements of this Ordinance are not maintained. This
section shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for a public
purpose.
Section 4.08 Obstructions to Vision at Street Intersections Prohibited 
   On a corner lot, within the area formed by the center line of streets at a
distance of 75 feet from their intersections, there shall be no obstruction to
vision between a height of two and one-half feet and a height of 10
feet above the grades of the bottom of the curb of the intersecting streets,
measured from the point of intersection of the centerline of the
streets.   At the intersection of major or arterial streets, the 75-
foot distance shall be increased to 90 feet for each arterial leg of the intersection. The requirements of this section shall not be deemed to
prohibit any necessary retaining wall. See “Sight Triangle,” as defined in
Article 2 of this Ordinance.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-136.png]
 
Section 4.09  Yard Requirements
   1.   Yard requirements shall be set forth under the Schedule of
Lot, Yard, and Bulk Requirements for each zoning district. Front, side and rear
yards shall be provided in accordance with the regulations hereinafter
indicated and shall be unobstructed from the ground level to the sky, except as
herein permitted.
   2.   No part of a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or
loading space, required in connection with any building for the purpose of
complying with this ordinance, shall be included as part of a yard, open space,
or off-street parking, or loading space required for another building and or
lot.
   3.   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this ordinance shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this ordinance shall
meet the minimum requirements herein.
   4.   All accessory buildings when connected to the principal building (e.g.,
attached garages) shall comply with the yard requirements of the principal
building, unless otherwise specified.
   5.   The Zoning Administrator may permit a variation in front yard setbacks
to allow new or relocated structures to conform to the average existing setback
provided that 1.) More than 40 percent of the frontage on one side of a street
between intersecting streets is occupied by structures on the effective date of
this Ordinance, and 2.) A minority of such structures have observed or
conformed to an average setback line, see illustration for different
provisions:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-138.png]
 
   6.   Any side or rear yard in a residential district which is adjacent to
any existing industrial or commercial use shall be no less than 25 feet and the
owner shall install and maintain landscaping and planting suitable to provide
effective screening.
   7.   Any yard for a commercial or industrial use located within any
Commercial or Industrial Zoning District, which is adjacent to any residential
use, or district shall be increased to 40 feet and shall contain landscaping
and planting suitable to provide effective screening; except in the Central
Business District.
Section 4.10 Drainage
   No building, structure, or use shall be erected on any land and no change
shall be made in the existing contours of any land, including any change in the
course, width, or elevation of any natural or other drainage channel, that will
obstruct, interfere with, or substantially change the drainage from such land
to the detriment of neighboring lands.
   Anyone desiring to build or otherwise change the existing drainage situation
shall be responsible for providing to the City or their designated agent that
such changes will not be a detriment to the neighboring lands.
Section 4.11 Permitted Obstructions in Required Yards
The following shall not be considered to be obstructions when located in the required
yards:
   1.   All Yards:
      ·   Steps and accessibility ramps used for wheelchair and other assisting
devices which are four feet or less above grade which will not exceed minimum
requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act are necessary for access to
a permitted building or for access to a lot from a street or alley.
      ·   Chimneys projecting 24 inches or less into the yard.
      ·   Playground and other recreational equipment.
      ·   Clothes lines.
      ·   Approved freestanding signs.
      ·   Arbors and trellises.
      ·   Flag poles.
      ·   Window air conditioners projecting not more than 18 inches into the required yard;
and
      ·   Fences or walls subject to applicable height restrictions are permitted in all
yards.
   2.   Rear and Side Yards:
      ·   Open off-street parking spaces
      ·   Outside elements of central air conditioning systems.
      ·   Emergency egress systems for basements on an existing structure.
   3.   Double Frontage Lots: 
The required front yard shall be provided on each street.
   4.   Building Groupings: 
For the purpose of the side yard regulation a group of business or industrial buildings
separated by a common party wall shall be considered as one building occupying
one lot.
Section 4.12 Accessory Building and Uses
   1.   No accessory building or structure shall be constructed on a lot without a principal building or
structure.
   2.   In
no event shall a portable storage container be used as permanent storage/
accessory building within any residential district, unless they meet the
criteria found in Section
9.09.
   3.   No detached accessory building or structure shall exceed the
maximum permitted height allowed in the individual district, unless otherwise
provided.
   4.   No accessory building shall be constructed in the required front yard.
   5.   No accessory building shall be erected in or encroach upon the required
front yard on a corner lot or the front yard of a double frontage lot.
   6.   Detached accessory buildings or structures shall be located no closer
to any other accessory or principal building than 10 feet.
   7.   When a detached garage or other outbuilding is built within
the required setback for a principal structure, the principal structure and
detached building shall remain as separate structures and maintain the required
separation distances found in Section
4.12(6) above.
   8.   When a detached garage has access to an alley, the rear yard setback
shall be increased to 10 feet for garages directly accessing the alley from the
garage and door is parallel to the alley. Otherwise, it shall be a minimum of
five feet.
   9.   Temporary and portable carports may be allowed in designated zoning
districts provided the following criteria shall be met:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-140.png]
 
      A.   The carport shall be anchored to the ground with a permanent
foundation.
      B.   A carport shall not be allowed to have more than two sides covered
with siding material.
      C.   Siding material shall match the style of the primary structure on
the lot.
      D.   Shall meet all minimum setbacks.
   10.   Detached private garages and outbuildings in the Residential Districts
within the corporate limits of Kimball for automobiles and/or storage use and
other structures customary and appurtenant to the permitted uses and detached
accessory garages shall be constructed of materials customarily used in
residential construction and meet the following:
      A.   Be constructed of materials that are in good repair,
      B.   The sidewalls of said building shall not exceed 15 feet in height,
      C.   Garages shall have an overhang of at least six inches,
      D.   Garages shall have a maximum width of 40 feet,
      E.   Garages shall be constructed and finished in materials customary to residential
construction.
   11.   Regulation of accessory uses shall be as follows:
      A.   Except as herein provided, no accessory building shall project
beyond a required yard line along any street.
      B.   Service station pumps and pump island may occupy
the required yards, provided, however, that they are not less than 15 feet from
street lines.
Section 4.13  Permitted Modifications of Height Regulations
   1.   The height limitations of this Ordinance shall not apply to:
Air-Pollution Prevention      Flag Poles
Devices
Belfries                       Ornamental Towers and Spires
Chimneys                       Public Monuments
Church Spires                  Radio/Television Towers less than 125 feet tall
Conveyors                      Silos and grain elevators
Cooling Towers                 Smokestacks
Elevator Bulkheads             Stage Towers or Scenery Lots
Commercial Elevator PenthousesTanks
Fire Towers                    Water Towers and Standpipes
Web cameras and meteorological equipment
 
Provided that the appropriate yard setbacks are increased by one foot for every
two feet in excess of the maximum height requirement for the given zoning
district.
   2.   When permitted in a district, public or semi-public service buildings,
hospitals, institutions, or schools may be erected to a height not exceeding 75
feet when each required yard line is increased by at least one foot for each
one foot of additional building height above the height regulations for the
district in which the building is located.
Section 4.14  Occupancy of Basements and Cellars
   No basement or cellar shall be occupied for residential purposes until the
remainder of the building has been substantially completed, and any required
emergency egress requirements of the City of Kimball have been installed as
required per state and life-safety codes.
Section 4.15  Nonconforming, General Intent
   It is the intent of this ordinance to permit lawful non-conformities to
continue until they are removed, but not encourage their survival. Such uses
are declared by this ordinance to be incompatible with permitted uses in the
districts involved. It is further the intent of this ordinance that non-
conformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended nor be used as
grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same
district except as may be authorized in this title.
Section 4.16  Nonconforming Lots of Record
   In any district, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provision of
this ordinance, a primary structure and customary accessory buildings may be
erected on any single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this ordinance. This provision shall apply even though such lot
fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both that are generally
applicable in the district provided that the yard dimensions and other
requirements not involving area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to
the regulations for the district in which such lot is located. Variance of yard
requirements shall be obtained only through action of the Board of Adjustment.
Section 4.17  Nonconforming Structures
   1.   Authority to continue:  Any structure which is devoted to a use which
is permitted in the zoning district in which it is located, but which is
located on a lot which does not comply with the applicable lot size
requirements and/or the applicable bulk regulations, may be continued, so long
as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the restrictions of this section.
   2.   Enlargement, Repair, Alterations:  Any such structure described in
Section
4.17(1) may be enlarged, maintained, repaired or remodeled, provided, however,
that no such enlargement, maintenance, repair or remodeling shall either create
any additional nonconformity or increase the degree of existing
nonconformity of all or any part of such structure,
except that as to structures located on a lot that does not comply with the
applicable lot size requirements, the side yard requirements shall be in
conformance with this section, and unless otherwise permitted by conditional
use permit unless otherwise approved or as specified in the Residential
District.
   3.   Damage or Destruction:  In the event that any structure described in
Section
4.17(1) is damaged or destroyed, by any means other than intentional
destruction, to the extent of more than 50 percent of its structural value,
such structure shall not be restored unless it shall thereafter conform to the
regulations for the zoning district in which it is located; provided that
structures located on a lot that does not comply with the applicable lot size
requirements in Section
4.16, shall not have a side yard of less than five feet. When a structure is
damaged to the extent of less than 50 percent of its structural value, no
repairs or restoration shall be made unless a building permit is obtained, and
restoration is actually begun within one year after the date of such partial
destruction and is diligently pursued to completion.
   Complete reconstruction of a nonconforming structure may be allowed through
a Conditional Use Permit if the structure is damaged or destroyed by natural
means and not through intentional destruction or actions of the property owner
or tenant. Reconstructed structures shall not be allowed to increase the level
of nonconformity with regard to setbacks or lot coverage.
   4.   Moving:  No structure shall be moved in whole or in part for any
distance whatever, to any other location on the same or any other lot unless
the entire structure shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the zoning
district in which it is located after being moved.
Section 4.18  Nonconforming Uses
   1.   Nonconforming Uses of Land:  Where at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this ordinance, lawful use of land exists that is made no longer
permissible under the terms of this ordinance as enacted or amended, such use
may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions:
      A.   No such non-conforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment or this ordinance.
      B.   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date
of adoption or amendment of this ordinance.
      C.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than 12 consecutive months, any subsequent use of such land
shall conform to the regulations specified by this ordinance for the district
in which such land is located.
   2.   Nonconforming Uses of Structures:  If a lawful use of a structure, or
of structure and premises in combination, exists at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this ordinance, that would not be allowed in the
district under the terms of this ordinance, the lawful use may be continued so
long as it remains otherwise lawful subject to the following provisions:
      A.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this
ordinance in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
      B.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this ordinance, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such building.
      C.   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure or structures and premises may be changed to another nonconforming
use provided that the Board of Adjustment either by general rule or by making
findings in the specific case, shall find that the proposed use is equally
appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming use. In permitting
such change, the Board of Adjustment may require appropriate conditions and
safeguard in accord with the provisions of this ordinance.
      D.   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which
a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform
to the regulations for the district in which such structure is located and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
      E.   When a nonconforming use of a structure or structure and premises in
combination is discontinued or abandoned for 12 consecutive months, the
structure or structure and premises in combination shall not thereafter be used
except in conformance with the regulations of the district in which
it is located.
      F.   Where nonconforming use status is applied to a structure and
premises in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall
eliminate the nonconforming status of the land.
Section 4.19  Repairs and Maintenance
   1.   On any building devoted in whole or in part to any nonconforming use,
work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on ordinary repairs or
on repair or replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing
provided that the cubic content of the building as it existed at the time of
passage of amendment of this ordinance shall not be increased.
   2.   Nothing in this ordinance shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
such official.
Section 4.20  Uses under Conditional Use Permit are not Nonconforming Uses
Any use for which a Conditional Use Permit or special use permit has been
issued according to previous ordinances shall not be deemed a nonconforming
use. Said use shall without further action shall be deemed a conforming use in
such district.
Section 4.21  Rear Yard Setbacks Reduction
   The rear yard setback may be the lesser of the required setback in a district or 20% of the depth of the
lot.
Section 4.22  Temporary Uses and Permits
   1.   The administrator shall issue temporary permits for buildings to be
constructed and used for storage incidental to construction of buildings on the
property and for signs advertising a subdivision or tract of land or the lots
thereon. The permits shall not exceed 180 days in duration unless the following
conditions apply:
      A.   Model homes or apartments, if contained within the development to which they
pertain.
      B.   Development sales offices. Such offices may remain in place until 90% of the lots or units within the
development are sold and may not be located within a mobile home or manufactured home/
structure.
      C.   Public assemblies, displays, and exhibits.
      D.   Christmas tree or other holiday-
related merchandise sales lots, provided that such facilities are not located
in a residential zoning district.
      E.   Construction site offices, if located on the construction site
itself.
      F.   Seasonal outdoor sales such as flowers and plants shall be permitted
within a commercial or industrial zoning district.
      G.   Outdoor special sales provided such sales operate no more than three
days in the same week and five days in the same month; and are located in
commercial or industrial zoning districts.
      H.   Construction Batch Plants, provided that:
         1)   No plant may be located within 600 feet of a developed residential use, park, or
school.
         2)   Hours of operation do not exceed 12 hours per day.
         3)   The duration
of the plant's operation does not exceed 180 days but may be extended by the Zoning
Administrator if unforeseen circumstances have delayed the project.
   2.   Required Conditions of All Temporary Uses
      A.   Each site shall be left free of debris, litter, or other evidence of its use upon its completion or
removal.
      B.   The Planning Commission may establish other conditions which they
deem necessary to ensure compatibility with surrounding land uses.
   3.   Permit Application and Issuance
      A.   An application to conduct a temporary use shall be made to the
Zoning Administrator and shall include at a minimum a description of the
proposed use; a diagram of its location; information regarding hours and
duration of operation; and other information necessary to evaluate the
application.
      B.   The Zoning Administrator, or its designee, may authorize a temporary use only if they determine
that:
         1)   Use will not impair the normal operation of a current or future permanent use on the
site.
         2)   The use will be compatible with surrounding uses and will not
adversely affect public health, safety, and welfare.
      C.   The duration of the permit shall be explicitly stated on the permit.
Section 4.23 Private Swimming Pools
   1.   In Ground Swimming Pools
      A.   A permit shall be required for the construction or
placement of a private swimming pool from the zoning administrator prior to
such construction or placement.
      B.   An application for a permit shall be submitted by
the owner or his agent of the property upon which the pool is to be located.
      C.   Such application shall be accompanied by a duplicate set of plans, specifications, and plot
plans.
      D.   The plot plan shall show the accurate location of the proposed pool
on the property and properly establish distances to existing lot lines,
buildings and fences, and to additional proposed structures or fences.
      E.   No permit shall be issued until such plans, specifications and
plot plans have been approved by the City as being in conformance with all
local regulations pertaining to private swimming pools.
      F.   All building, plumbing, electrical, and other codes as adopted by
the City Council shall be adhered to in the construction or assembly of the
private swimming pool.
      G.   Every private swimming pool shall be completely surrounded by a
fence or wall not less than four feet in height which shall be of a type which
precludes passage through or under and is not readily climbable by small
children. This shall not mean an additional fence within a completely fenced
yard, provided the fence meets the stated minimum requirement. All gates shall
be equipped with a latch which is not readily operated by small children.
      H.   The main building, or any accessory structure, on the site may form part of the
enclosure.
      I.   The lack of a minimum enclosure as herein described, on any existing
pool, is hereby deemed to be a serious public safety hazard. The owner of the
property upon which such a pool is located, shall comply with the enclosure
requirements within 30 days after date of notification to comply.
      J.   All private swimming pools constructed after the effective date of
this ordinance may be used for surface irrigation of the owner's property,
provided, that no water shall overflow onto adjacent private or public property
in a manner as to cause a nuisance.
   2.   Storable Pools/Above Ground Pools
      A.   Storable pools shall not require a permit as identified by this
section.
      B.   The sides of above-ground pools are acceptable as integral barriers,
provided, the sides extend not less than four feet above the outside ground at
all points, and provided further, that access steps or ladders are capable of
being rendered inaccessible by being removed or raised more than four feet
above the outside grade.
Section 4.24: Prohibited Uses
   All uses which are not specifically permitted or are not permissible as a
Conditional Use throughout each district of this Ordinance are prohibited until
such time as the Ordinance is amended accordingly.
Section 4.25: Fees
   The payment of any and all fees for any zoning or subdivision related action
or permit request shall be required prior to the issuance or investigation of
any said action or permit request. Such fees shall be adopted and published by
the City Council by separate resolution.
Article 5: Zoning Districts
Section 5.01 Districts; Use
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the Municipality is hereby divided into 13 districts, designated as follows:
(TA-1)   Transitional Agricultural District
(RE)   Residential Estates
(R-1)   Low Density Residential District
(R-2)   Medium to High Density Residential District
(R-M)   Mobile Home Residential District
(RT)   Residential Transition District
(C-1)   Central Business District
(C-2) General Commercial District
(C-3) Highway Commercial District 
(F-1)  Flex District
(I-1)   Light Industrial District
(I-2)   Heavy Industrial District
(GCE)   Golf Course Estates
(MUDD) Mixed Use Development District
Section 5.02  Districts; Boundaries and Official Zoning Map
   The boundaries of the districts are hereby established as shown on the map
entitled "Official Zoning Map of the City of Kimball, Nebraska." Said maps and
all explanatory matter thereon accompany and are hereby made a part of this
Ordinance as if fully written herein. The Official Zoning District Map shall be
identified by the signature of the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk. No
changes shall be made to the Zoning District Map except as may be required by
amendments to this Ordinance. Such changes shall be promptly indicated on the
Zoning District Map with the Ordinance number, nature of change, and date of
change noted on the map.
Section 5.03
Rules for Interpretation of District Boundaries on the Official Zoning Map
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the Official Zoning Map, the following
rules shall apply:
   1.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of streets, highways, or alleys shall be
construed to follow such center lines.
   2.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall be construed as following such lot
lines.
   3.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following City limits shall be construed as following such City
limits.
   4.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to be midway between the main
tracks.
   5.   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall
be construed to follow such shorelines, and in the event of change in the
shoreline shall be construed as moving with the actual shore line;
   6.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed to
follow such center lines.
   7.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to, or extensions of features
indicated in subsections (1) to (6) above shall be so construed. Distances not
specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall be determined by the
scale of the map.
   8.   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Official Zoning Map, or in other circumstances
not covered by subsections (1) to (7) above, the Board of Zoning Adjustment
shall interpret the district boundaries.
   9.   Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in single
ownership at the time of passage of this Ordinance, The Board of
Zoning Adjustment may permit the extension of the regulations for either
portion of the lot not to exceed 50 feet beyond the district line into the
remaining portion of the lot.
   10.   When a district boundary line splits a lot, tract, or parcel that is
in sole ownership, the zoning district with the most restrictive requirements
may be extended over the entire property without amending the zoning map
through the public hearing process.
   11.   When a lot, tract, or parcel is bisected by the extraterritorial
jurisdiction boundary line, the jurisdiction with the greatest portion of the
property shall have controlling interest.
Section 5.04  Land Use Categories Matrix Explanation
The Matrix found in Section
5.06 of this Ordinance is a listing of uses that may be allowed within the
variety of Zoning Districts.
   1.   The different uses are grouped into specific “Land Use Categories”.
   2.   The “Land Use Categories” are listed in each of the Zoning Districts in
lieu of specific uses. It is important to note,
if a “Land Use Category” is listed within a specific Zoning District, it DOES NOT indicate every use in the “Land
Use Category” is allowed within the specific District.
   The different uses within Section
5.06 are Exempt from permits (E), Permitted (P), Allowed upon approval of a
Conditional Use Permit (C), Temporary (T), or not permitted (-).
In order to determine if a specific use is allowed in a Zoning District, the
following steps need to be followed:
   1.   Find the Use Type that matches your application
   2.   Look across the table and determine which of the Zoning Districts it may be
allowed.
   3.   Determine any special criteria for the use
(s) by referring to the specific District.
   4.   Determine where the specific Zoning Districts are by reviewing the Official Zoning
Map.
   5.   Determine the necessary procedures to receive required permits after the land or property is the control of
the applicant.
   6.   When doubt, please confer with Planning staff.
   The Table in Section 
5.06
also lists Accessory Uses which may be allowed or not allowed in any specific Zoning
District. The Accessory Use listing can be found at the end of the Table.
Section 5.05 Annexation and Conformance with the Land Use Plan
   Areas annexed into the corporate limits of Kimball shall be zoned to conform to the Future Land Use
Plan.
Section 5.06 Land Use Categories/Matrix
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-142.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-144.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-146.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-148.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-150.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-152.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-154.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-156.png]
Section 5.07  TA-1: Transitional Agricultural District
5.07.01   Intent:
The Transitional Agriculture District is established for the purpose of
preserving agricultural resources that are compatible with adjacent urban
growth. It is not intended for commercial feedlot operations for livestock or
poultry. Because the areas are not in the identified growth areas for the
community, the district is designed to limit urban sprawl.
5.07.02   Permitted Uses:
Permitted Uses are allowed according to the table in Section 5.06, provided the use and/
or structure meet the minimum bulk requirements of the District.
5.07.03   Conditional Uses:
Conditional Uses are allowed according to the table in Section 5.06, with any
conditions as recommended by the Planning Commission and approved by the City
Council.
5.07.04   Temporary Uses:
Temporary uses may be permitted provided a Temporary Use Permit is
obtained and said temporary use is eliminated at the expiration of the permit.
See Section 4.22.
5.07.05   Accessory Uses and Structures:
Refer to the definitions of Accessory Uses and Structures, as well as Table
5.06 and Article 4 for more detail.
5.07.06   Height and Lot Requirements:
The height and minimum lot requirements shall be as follows:
 
                            Lot                                            C      Max.
Use              Lot Area  Width  A                   B                   Side   Height
                 (acres)    (feet) Front Yard (feet)* Rear Yard (feet)** Yard   (feet)
                                                                           (feet)
Single-family    3          NA     50                  NA                  10     NA
dwelling
Other Permitted 3          NA     50                  NA                  10     NA
Uses
Conditional Uses 3          NA     50                  NA                  10     NA
Accessory        -          NA     50                  NA                  10     NA
Structures
*   Front yard setback shall be 83 feet from the centerline of a County Road or
shall be 50 feet when abutting any other platted street, road or highway.
**   Rear yard setback shall be 33 feet from the centerline of a County Road
or shall be 0 feet abutting any other platted street, road or highway
or interior property line.
***   Side yard setback shall be 43 feet from the centerline of a County Road or shall be 10 feet when abutting any other platted street, road, or highway
or interior property line.
****   Percentage applies to the buildable area of the lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-158.png]
 
5.07.07   Other Applicable Provisions:
   1.   The following uses shall be a minimum of 2,640 feet from any
residential, commercial, industrial, or public use, as measured from the
nearest point on the lot line.
      a.   Commercial auction yards or barns.
      b.   Commercial production and husbandry of poultry, fish, and small
animals.
      c.   Commercial feedlots.
      d.   Mining and extraction of natural resources.
      e.   Feed mills.
      f.   Auto wrecking yards, junk yards, salvage yards, and scrap processing
yards.
      g.   Storage and distribution of anhydrous ammonia, fuel, fertilizer, and
other chemicals.
   2.   No new residential, commercial, industrial, or public use shall be
located nearer than 3,960 feet to any existing use listed in Section 5.07.07
(1).
Section 5.08  RE Residential Estates
5.08.01   Intent:
   This district is intended to allow for acreage development near the
corporate limits of Kimball. Its regulations are intended to minimize traffic
congestion and to assure that density is consistent with the carrying capacity
of infrastructure.
5.08.02   Permitted Uses:
   Permitted Uses are allowed according to the table in Section 
5.06, provided the use and/or structure meet the minimum bulk requirements of
the District.
5.08.03   Conditional Uses:
   Conditional Uses are allowed according to the table in Section
5.06, with any conditions as recommended by the Planning Commission and
approved by the City Council.
5.08.04   Temporary Uses:
   Temporary uses may be permitted provided a Temporary Use Permit is
obtained and said temporary use is eliminated at the expiration of the permit.
See Section
4.22.
5.08.05   Accessory Uses and Structures:
   Refer to the definitions of Accessory Uses and Structures, as well as Table
5.06 and Sections within
Article 4 for more detail.
5.08.06   Height and Lot Requirements:
   The height and minimum lot requirements shall be as follows:
 
                                                    A        B         C          Street   Max.
Use                     Lot Area (Sq. Lot Width  Front    Rear      Side       Side     Height
                        Ft.)            (feet)      Yard     Yard      Yard       Yard     (feet)
                                                    (feet)** (feet)*** (feet)**** (feet)**
Single-family dwelling 10,000*         150         50       50        15         50       35
detached
Other Permitted Uses   10,000*         150         50       50        15         50       35
Conditional Uses        10,000*         150         50       50        15         50       35
Accessory Structures    -               150         50       5         15         50       35
*   If the lot is not
connected to municipal water, then the minimum lot size shall be 3 acres.
**   Front yard setback shall be 83 feet from the centerline of a County Road
or shall be 50 feet when abutting any other platted street, road of highway.
***   Rear yard setback shall be 83 feet from the centerline of a County Road
or shall be 50 feet abutting any other platted street, road of highway or
interior property line.
****   Side yard setback shall be 53 feet from the centerline of a County Road or shall 20 feet when abutting any other platted
street, road, or highway or interior property line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-160.png]
 
Section 5.09  R-1 Low Density Residential District
5.09.01   Intent:
   This district is intended to provide for lower density residential
neighborhoods, characterized by single-family and two-family dwellings on small
to moderately sized lots with supporting community facilities.
5.09.02   Permitted Uses:
   Permitted Uses are allowed according to the table in Section 
5.06, provided the use and/or structure meet the minimum bulk requirements of
the District.
5.09.03   Conditional Uses:
   Conditional Uses are allowed according to the table in Section
5.06, with any conditions as recommended by the Planning Commission and
approved by the City Council.
5.09.04   Temporary Uses:
   Temporary uses may be permitted provided a Temporary Use Permit is
obtained and said temporary use is eliminated at the expiration of the permit.
See Section
4.22.
5.09.05   Accessory Uses and Structures:
   Refer to the definitions of Accessory Uses and Structures, as well as Table
5.06 and Sections within
Article 4 for more detail.
5.09.06   Height and Lot Requirements:
   The height and minimum lot requirements shall be as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-162.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-164.png]
 
*   See Section 4.09.05
5.09.07   Supplemental Residential Regulations
   1.   Single-family Attached/Townhouses and Condominiums
      A.   Common wall shall have a zero-lot line setback and be located on the
property line separating both dwellings.
      B.   Each unit is separated by a two-hour fire rated wall from the lowest
level and continuing through the roof structure.
      C.   Each unit shall be serviced by separate facilities.
      D.   No more than three units shall be connected in this district.
Section 5.10  R-2 Medium to High Density Residential District
5.10.01   Intent:
   This district is intended to provide for medium to higher density
residential neighborhoods, characterized by single-family, two-family
dwellings, and apartment units on small to moderately sized lots with
supporting community facilities.
5.10.02   Permitted Uses:
   Permitted Uses are allowed according to the table in Section 
5.06, provided the use and/or structure meet the minimum bulk requirements of
the District.
5.10.03   Conditional Uses:
   Conditional Uses are allowed according to the table in Section
5.06, with any conditions as recommended by the Planning Commission and
approved by the City Council.
5.10.04   Temporary Uses:
   Temporary uses may be permitted provided a Temporary Use Permit is
obtained and said temporary use is eliminated at the expiration of the permit.
See Section
4.22.
5.10.05   Accessory Uses and Structures:
   Refer to the definitions of Accessory Uses and Structures, as well as Table
5.06 and Sections within
Article 4 for more detail.
5.10.06   Height and Lot Requirements:
   The height and minimum lot requirements shall be as follows:
                              A                                                                 Max.   Max.
Use Lot Area (Sq. Lot Width Front    B                 C                      Street Side     Height Building
    Ft.)            (feet)*** Yard     Rear Yard (feet) Side Yard (feet)***** Yard (feet) ** (feet) Coverage
                              (feet)**                                                                 (%)*****
                                                                  A                                                                 Max.   Max.
Use                                     Lot Area (Sq. Lot Width Front    B                 C                      Street Side     Height Building
                                        Ft.)            (feet)*** Yard     Rear Yard (feet) Side Yard (feet)***** Yard (feet) ** (feet) Coverage
                                                                  (feet)**                                                                 (%)*****
Single-family dwelling                  6,000           50        20       5****             5                      15              35     50
Single-family attached (2 units only)3,000/unit      25/unit*  20       5****             5*                     15              35     50/unit
Two-family dwelling/duplex              3,000/unit      25/unit   20       5****             5                      15              35     50
Single-family attached (more than 2 2,500/unit      1/        20       10****            5*                     15              35     50
units)                                                  unit****
                                        Per Unit        50        20       10                5*                     15              35     50
Multi-family                            3,000           50        25       15                10                     20              35     45
1-story 2-story 3-story                 2,500           50        30       20                15                     25              35     40
                                        1,500
Other Permitted Uses                   6,000           50        20       5                 5                      15              35     50
Conditional Uses                        6,000           50        20       5                 5                      15              35     50
Accessory Structures                    -               -         20       5                 5                      20              35     20
*   The minimum lot width for Townhouses and Condominiums with more than two
units shall be 20 feet for interior units and 60 feet for the exterior units.
**   See Section 
4.09(5)
***   Minimum Lot Width shall be 50 feet
for an interior lot or a corner lot; or 45 feet when facing a cul-de-sac or
curve.
****   See Section 
4.12(9)
*****   Percentage applies to the buildable area of the lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-166.png]
 
5.10.07   Supplemental Residential Regulations
   1.   Single-family Attached/Townhouses and Condominiums
      A.   Common wall shall have a zero-lot line setback and be located on the
property line separating both dwellings.
      B.   Each unit is separated by a two-hour fire rated wall from the lowest
level and continuing through the roof structure.
      C.   Each unit shall be serviced by separate facilities.
      D.   No more than three units shall be connected in this district.
Section 5.11  RM Mobile Home Residential District
5.11.01   Intent:
   This district recognizes that mobile home development, properly planned, can
provide important opportunities for affordable housing. It provides
opportunities for mobile home development within planned parks or subdivisions,
along with the supporting services necessary to create quality residential
neighborhoods.
5.11.02   Permitted Uses:
   Permitted Uses are allowed according to the table in Section 
5.06, provided the use and/or structure meet the minimum bulk requirements of
the District.
5.11.03   Conditional Uses:
   Conditional Uses are allowed according to the table in Section
5.06, with any conditions as recommended by the Planning Commission and
approved by the City Council.
5.11.04   Temporary Uses:
   Temporary uses may be permitted provided a Temporary Use Permit is
obtained and said temporary use is eliminated at the expiration of the permit.
See Section
4.22.
5.11.05   Accessory Uses and Structures:
   Refer to the definitions of Accessory Uses and Structures, as well as Table
5.06 and Sections within
Article 4 for more detail.
5.11.06   Special Design Criteria for this District
   1.   A mobile home development shall have a lot area of not less than two
acres. No mobile homes
or other structures shall be located less than 65 feet from the road centerline when contiguous to
or having frontage to a County Road or 25 feet when contiguous from a State
Highway. The setback on all other court property lines shall be 10 feet. These
areas shall be landscaped. The minimum lot depth in a mobile home court shall
be 200 feet.
   2.   Each lot provided for occupancy of a
single mobile home dwelling shall have an area of not less than 4,000 square
feet, excluding road right-of-way, and a width of not less than 40 feet. Each
individual lot shall have:
      a.   Side yard setback 
(C) shall not be less than five feet, except that on corner lots, the setback
for all buildings shall be a minimum of 25 feet on the side abutting a street/
road.
      b.   Front yard setback (A) shall not be less than 25 feet.
      c.   Rear yard setback (B) of not less than 25 feet.
   3.   There shall be a minimum livable floor area of 500 square feet in each mobile
home.
   4.   Height of buildings shall be:
      a.   The maximum height for principal uses shall be 35 feet.
      b.   The maximum height for accessory uses shall be 10 feet.
   5.   Each lot shall have access to a hard surface drive not less than 24
feet in width, excluding parking.
   6.   Community water and community sewage disposal facilities shall be
provided with connections to each lot, in accordance with design
standards for the City. The water supply shall be sufficient for domestic use
and for fire protection.
   7.   Service buildings including: adequate laundry and drying
facilities. Common toilet facilities for mobile homes which do not have these
facilities within each unit may be provided.
   8.   Storm shelters shall be required and shall meet the following criteria:
      A.   Shelter space equivalent to two persons per mobile home lot,
      B.   Designed in conformance with “National Performance Criteria for
Tornado Shelters” by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and any
other referenced material by FEMA,
      C.   Shelters shall be sited in order to provide maximum protection
to park occupants and so that residents may reach a shelter within the maximum
safe time frame as directed by FEMA.
   9.   All trailer pad locations shall be hard surfaced with properly
reinforced poured in place concrete.
   10.   Not less than 10 percent of the total court area shall be designated and used for a park,
playground and recreational purposes.
   11.   Each mobile home dwelling shall be provided with a paved patio or
equivalent, other than parking spaces, of not less than 150 square feet.
5.11.07   Special Requirements
   1.   All lots must be platted in accordance with the Subdivision Ordinance
of the City of Kimball and shall also contain the following information:
      A.   complete plan of the mobile home development shall be submitted
showing:
      B.   A development plan and grading plan of the court.
      C.   The area and dimensions of the tract of land.
      D.   The number, location, and size of all mobile home spaces.
      E.   The area and dimensions of the park, playground and recreation
areas.
      F.   The location and width of roadways and walkways.
      G.   The location of service buildings and any other proposed structures.
      H.   The location of water and sewer lines and sewage disposal
facilities.
      I.   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements constructed or to be
constructed within the mobile home court.
5.11.08   Supplemental Residential Regulations
   1.   Townhouses and Condominiums
      A.   Common wall shall have a zero-lot line setback and shall
be located on the property line separating both dwellings.
      B.   Each unit is separated by a two-hour fire rated wall from the
lowest level and continuing through the roof structure.
      C.   Each unit shall be serviced by separate facilities.
      D.   No more than three units shall be connected in this district.
Section 5.12  R-T Residential Transition District
5.12.01   Intent:
   The Residential Transition District is intended to provide an area within
the community where existing residential uses can continue to exist, while
allowing for expansion of professional office and/or business uses into the
district, in particular along arterial and collector streets and roads.
Structures in this area should continue as residential in character, including
any new construction.
5.12.02   Permitted Uses:
   Permitted Uses are allowed according to the table in Section 
5.06, provided the use and/or structure meet the minimum bulk requirements of
the District.
5.12.03   Conditional Uses:
   Conditional Uses are allowed according to the table in Section
5.06, with any conditions as recommended by the Planning Commission and
approved by the City Council.
5.12.04   Temporary Uses:
   Temporary uses may be permitted provided a Temporary Use Permit is
obtained and said temporary use is eliminated at the expiration of the permit.
See Section
4.22.
5.12.05   Accessory Uses and Structures:
   Refer to the definitions of Accessory Uses and Structures, as well as Table
5.06 and Sections within
Article 4 for more detail.
5.12.06   Height and Lot Requirements:
   The height and minimum lot requirements shall be as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-168.png]
 
*   The minimum lot width for dwellings with more than two units shall be 20
feet for interior units and 60 feet for the exterior units.
**   See Section 
4.09(5)
***   Minimum Lot Width shall be 60 feet
for an interior lot or a corner lot; or 45 feet when facing a cul-de-sac or
curve.
****   See Section 
4.12(9)
*****   Percentage applies to the buildable area of the lot.
5.12.07   Use Limitations:
   1.   All new non-residential structures shall be designed and constructed in
a type and style similar to the residential character of the district, with the
site plan subject to Zoning Administrator approval.
   2.   When adjacent to any residential district, new non-residential
construction shall provide permanent screen with a height of six feet or six
feet four inches if a fence, in order to minimize impacts on residentially
zoned property, pursuant to Section
9.04.
   3.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded so that no direct light is
cast upon any residential property and/or District and so that no glare is
visible to any traffic on any public street.
   4.   All business, service, repair, processing, storage, or merchandise
display on property abutting or facing a lot in a residential district shall
be conducted wholly within an enclosed building, unless screened from the
residential district by a sight-obscuring fence permanently maintained at least
six feet in height.
Section 5.13  C-1 Central Business District
5.13.01   Intent:
   This district is intended to provide appropriate development regulations for
the Central Business District of Kimball. Mixed uses are encouraged within the
C-1 District, without allowing activities which would have a negative effect on
the town center. The grouping of uses is designed to strengthen the town
center’s role as a center for trade, service, and civic life.
5.13.02   Permitted Uses:
   Permitted Uses are allowed according to the table in Section 
5.06, provided the use and/or structure meet the minimum bulk requirements of
the District.
5.13.03   Conditional Uses:
   Conditional Uses are allowed according to the table in Section
5.06, with any conditions as recommended by the Planning Commission and
approved by the City Council.
5.13.04   Temporary Uses:
   Temporary uses may be permitted provided a Temporary Use Permit is
obtained and said temporary use is eliminated at the expiration of the permit.
See Section
4.22.
5.13.05   Accessory Uses and Structures:
   Refer to the definitions of Accessory Uses and Structures, as well as Table
5.06 and Sections within
Article 4 for more detail.
5.13.06   Height and Lot Requirements:
   The height and minimum lot requirements shall be as follows:
 
                                                                                                  Max.   Max.
Use         Lot Area (Sq. Lot Width  A                  B                   C                  Height Building
            Ft.)            (feet)      Front Yard (feet) Rear Yard (feet)** Side Yard (feet)* (feet) Coverage
                                                                                                         (%)
Permitted   -               -           0                  0                   0                  35     100
Uses
Conditional -               -           0                  0                   0                  35     100
Uses
Accessory   -               -           0                  0                   0                  35     10
Structures
*   None, except when adjacent to any residential district, the Side Yard setback shall be 10 feet, except when separated by an
alley.
**   None, except when adjacent to any residential district, the Rear Yard setback shall be 10 feet, except when separated by an
alley.
5.12.07 Use Limitations:
   1.   When adjacent to any residential district, no parking, drives or signs shall be allowed in the required front
yard within 15 feet of such residential district.
   2.   When adjacent to any residential district, new construction shall
provide permanent screen with a height of six feet or six feet four inches if a
fence, in order to minimize impacts on residentially zoned property, pursuant
to Section
9.04.
   3.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded so that no direct light is
cast upon any residential property and/or District and so that no glare is
visible to any traffic on any public street.
   4.   All business, service, repair, processing, storage or merchandise
display on property abutting or facing a lot in a residential district shall be
conducted wholly within an enclosed building, unless screened from the
residential district by a sight-obscuring fence permanently maintained at least
six feet in height.
   5.   Openings to structures on sides adjacent to or across the street from a
residential district shall be prohibited if such access or openings will cause
glare, excessive noise or other adverse effects on residential properties.
   6.   Motor vehicle, boat, trailer rental or sales lots shall be drained and
surfaced with crushed rock or pavement, except in those portions of the lot
maintained as landscape area.
Section 5.14 C-2 General Commercial District
5.14.01   Intent:
   This district is applied to parcels considered to be in a general location
within the community that are neither downtown nor highway oriented. The
district permits a mixture of uses.
5.14.02   Permitted Uses:
   Permitted Uses are allowed according to the table in Section 
5.06, provided the use and/or structure meet the minimum bulk requirements of
the District.
5.14.03   Conditional Uses:
   Conditional Uses are allowed according to the table in Section 
5.06, with any conditions as recommended by the Planning Commission and
approved by the City Council.
5.14.04   Temporary Uses:
   Temporary uses may be permitted provided a Temporary Use Permit is
obtained and said temporary use is eliminated at the expiration of the permit.
See Section
4.22.
5.14.05   Accessory Uses and Structures:
   Refer to the definitions of Accessory Uses and Structures, as well as Table 5.06 and Sections within
Article 4 for more detail.
5.14.06   Height and Lot Requirements:
   The height and minimum lot requirements shall be as follows unless otherwise
noted:
 
                                                                                                 Max.   Max.
Use         Lot Area (Sq. Lot Width  A                   B                 C                  Height Building
            Ft.)            (feet)      Front Yard (feet)* Rear Yard (feet) Side Yard (feet)* (feet) Coverage
                                                                                                        (%)
Permitted   -               -           25                  10                5                  35     50
Uses
Conditional -               -           25                  10                5                  35     50
Uses
Accessory   -               -           25                  10                5                  35     10
Structures
*   The front or side yard setback listed is only required when no parking is present in the
front yard.
If parking is located in the front or side yard, then the setback shall be increased to 50
feet.
5.14.07   Use Limitations:
   1.   When adjacent to any residential district, no parking, drives or signs shall be allowed in the required front
yard within 15 feet of such residential district.
   2.   When adjacent to any residential district, new construction shall
provide permanent screen with a height of six feet of six feet four inches if a
fence, in order to minimize impacts on residentially zoned property, pursuant
to Section
9.04.
   3.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded so no direct light is cast
upon any residential property and so that no glare is visible to any traffic on
any public street.
   4.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary
to avoid casting direct light on any property located in a residential or
mobile home district.
   5.   All business, service, repair, processing, storage or merchandise
display on property abutting or facing a lot in a residential district shall be
conducted wholly within an enclosed building, unless screened from the
residential district by a sight-obscuring fence permanently maintained at least
six feet in height.
   6.   Openings to structures on sides adjacent to or across the street from a
residential district shall be prohibited if such access or openings will cause
glare, excessive noise or other adverse effects on residential properties.
   7.   Motor vehicle, boat, or trailer rental or sales lots shall be drained
and surfaced with crushed rock or pavement, except in those portions of the lot
maintained as landscape area.
   8.   35% of the required front yard shall be maintained in landscaping.
   9.   Lots along the highways shall be required to gain access through a paved service
road.
Section 5.15  C-3 Highway Commercial District
5.15.01   Intent:
   This district is intended to apply to parcels along the Nebraska Highway 71
and Interstate 80 interchanges. The district permits a mixture of uses. Uses
will tend to serve the traveling public or larger commercial properties needing
space for parking and turning.
5.15.02   Permitted Uses:
   Permitted Uses are allowed according to the table in Section 
5.06, provided the use and/or structure meet the minimum bulk requirements of
the District.
5.15.03   Conditional Uses:
   Conditional Uses are allowed according to the table in Section
5.06, with any conditions as recommended by the Planning Commission and
approved by the City Council.
5.15.04   Temporary Uses:
   Temporary uses may be permitted provided a Temporary Use Permit is
obtained and said temporary use is eliminated at the expiration of the permit.
See Section
4.22.
5.15.05   Accessory Uses and Structures:
   Refer to the definitions of Accessory Uses and Structures, as well as Table
5.06 and Sections within
Article 4 for more detail.
5.15.06   Height and Lot Requirements:
   The height and minimum lot requirements shall be as follows unless otherwise
noted:
 
                                                                                                 Max.   Max.
Use         Lot Area (Sq. Lot Width  A                  B                  C                  Height Building
            Ft.)            (feet)      Front Yard (feet) Rear Yard (feet)* Side Yard (feet)* (feet) Coverage
                                                                                                        (%)
Permitted   -               75          50                 20                 10                 35     85
Uses
Conditional -               75          50                 20                 10                 35     85
Uses
Accessory   -               75          50                 20                 10                 35     10
Structures
*   The rear and side yard setbacks of 20 feet applies when adjacent to residential districts;
otherwise, it shall be decreased to 10 feet.
5.15.07   Use Limitations:
   1.   When adjacent to any residential district, no parking, drives or signs shall be allowed in the required front
yard within 15 feet of such residential district.
   2.   When adjacent to any residential district, new construction shall
provide permanent screen with a height of six feet or six feet four inches if a
fence, in order to minimize impacts on residentially zoned property, pursuant
to Section
9.04.
   3.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded so that no direct light is
cast upon any residential property and so that no glare is visible to any
traffic on any public street.
   4.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary
to avoid casting direct light on any property located in a residential or
mobile home district.
   5.   All business, service, repair, processing, storage or merchandise
display on property abutting or facing a lot in a residential district shall be
conducted wholly within an enclosed building, unless screened from the
residential district by a sight-obscuring fence permanently maintained at least
six feet in height.
   6.   Openings to structures on sides adjacent to or across the street from a
residential district shall be prohibited if such access or openings will cause
glare, excessive noise or other adverse effects on residential properties.
   7.   Motor vehicle, boat, or trailer rental or sales lots shall be drained
and surfaced with crushed rock or pavement, except in those portions of the lot
maintained as landscape area.
   8.   35% of the required front yard shall be maintained in landscaping.
   9.   Lots along the highways shall be required to gain access through a paved service
road.
Section 5.16  F-1 Flex District
5.16.01   Intent:
   It is the intent of the Flex District regulations to provide standards for
areas suitable for some limited industrial, commercial, wholesaling and storage
activities, to preserve land for the expansion of the basic economic
activities, to avoid incompatible land uses, to serve these areas with adequate
transportation facilities, and to prevent or mitigate hazards to adjacent
properties.
5.16.02   Permitted Uses:
   Permitted Uses are allowed according to the table in Section 
5.06, provided the use and/or structure meet the minimum bulk requirements of
the District.
5.16.03   Conditional Uses:
   Conditional Uses are allowed according to the table in Section
5.06, with any conditions as recommended by the Planning Commission and
approved by the City Council.
5.16.04   Temporary Uses:
   Temporary uses may be permitted provided a Temporary Use Permit is
obtained and said temporary use is eliminated at the expiration of the permit.
See Section
4.22.
5.16.05   Accessory Uses and Structures:
Refer to the definitions of Accessory Uses and Structures, as well as Table
5.06 and Sections within
Article 4 for more detail.
5.16.06   Height and Lot Requirements:
   The height and minimum lot requirements shall be as follows:
 
                                                                                                                    Max.   Max.
Use         Lot Area (Sq. Lot Width  A                  B                  C                  Street Side Yard  Height Building
            Ft.)            (feet)      Front Yard (feet) Rear Yard (feet)* Side Yard (feet)* (feet)             (feet) Coverage
                                                                                                                           (%)
Permitted   -               -           50                 20                 10                 25                 35     85
Uses
Conditional -               -           50                 20                 10                 25                 35     85
Uses
Accessory   -               -           50                 20                 10                 25                 35     10
Structures
*   The rear and side yard setbacks of 20 feet applies when adjacent to residential districts;
otherwise, it shall be decreased to 10 feet.
5.16.07   Use Limitations:
   1.   When adjacent to any residential district, no parking, drives or signs shall be allowed in the required front
yard within 15 feet of such residential district.
   2.   When adjacent to any residential district, new construction shall
provide permanent screen with a height of six feet or six feet four inches if a
fence, in order to minimize impacts on residentially zoned property, pursuant
to Section 9.04.
   3.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded so that no direct light is
cast upon any residential property and so that no glare is visible to any
traffic on any public street.
   4.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary
to avoid casting direct light on any property located in a residential or
mobile home district.
   5.   All business, service, repair, processing, storage or merchandise
display on property abutting or facing a lot in a residential district shall be
conducted wholly within an enclosed building, unless screened from the
residential district by a sight-obscuring fence permanently maintained at least
six feet in height.
   6.   Openings to structures on sides adjacent to or across the street from a
residential district shall be prohibited if such access or openings will cause
glare, excessive noise or other adverse effects on residential properties.
   7.   Motor vehicle, boat, or trailer rental or sales lots shall be drained
and surfaced with crushed rock or pavement, except in those portions of the lot
maintained as landscape area.
   8.   Lots along the highways shall be required to gain access through a paved service
road.
Section 5.17  I-1 Light Industrial District
5.17.01   Intent:
   This district is intended to reserve sites appropriate for the location of
industrial uses with relatively limited environmental effects. The district is
designed to provide appropriate space and regulations to encourage good quality
industrial development, while assuring facilities are served with adequate
parking and loading facilities.
5.17.02   Permitted Uses:
   Permitted Uses are allowed according to the table in Section 
5.06, provided the use and/or structure meet the minimum bulk requirements of
the District.
5.17.03   Conditional Uses:
   Conditional Uses are allowed according to the table in Section
5.06, with any conditions as recommended by the Planning Commission and
approved by the City Council.
5.17.04   Temporary Uses:
   Temporary uses may be permitted provided a Temporary Use Permit is
obtained and said temporary use is eliminated at the expiration of the permit.
See Section
4.22.
5.17.05   Accessory Uses and Structures:
   Refer to the definitions of Accessory Uses and Structures, as well as Table
5.06 and Sections within
Article 4 for more detail.
5.17.06   Height and Lot Requirements:
   The height and minimum lot requirements shall be as follows unless otherwise
noted:
 
            Lot Area (Sq. Lot Width  A                  B                  C                  Street Side Yard  Max.   Max. Building Coverage
Use         Ft.)            (feet)      Front Yard (feet) Rear Yard (feet)* Side Yard (feet)* (feet)             Height (%)
                                                                                                                    (feet)
Permitted   -               -           50                 10                 10                 25                 35     85
Uses
Conditional -               -           50                 10                 10                 25                 35     85
Uses
Accessory   -               -           50                 10                 10                 25                 35     20
Structures
*   The rear and side yard setbacks of 10 feet is only allowed when
not adjacent to residential districts; otherwise, it shall be increased to 20
feet.
5.17.07   Use Limitations:
   1.   When adjacent to any residential district, no parking, drives or signs shall be allowed in the required front
yard within 15 feet of such residential district.
   2.   When adjacent to any residential district, new construction shall
provide permanent screen with a height of six feet or six feet four inches if a
fence, in order to minimize impacts on residentially zoned property, pursuant
to Section
9.04.
   3.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded so that no direct light is
cast upon any residential property and so that no glare is visible to any
traffic on any public street.
   4.   When adjacent to an alley, the width of the alley shall be included in
computing the minimum rear yard setback.
   5.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary
to avoid casting direct light on any property located in a residential or
mobile home district.
   6.   All business, service, repair, processing, storage or merchandise
display on property abutting or facing a lot in a residential district shall be
conducted wholly within an enclosed building, unless screened from the
residential district by a sight-obscuring fence permanently maintained at least
six feet in height.
   7.   Openings to structures on sides adjacent to or across the street from a
residential district shall be prohibited if such access or openings will cause
glare, excessive noise or other adverse effects on residential properties.
   8.   Motor vehicle, boat, or trailer rental or sales lots shall be drained
and surfaced with crushed rock or pavement, except in those portions of the lot
maintained as landscape area.
5.16.08   Performance Standards:
   See Section 
9.05 of the Supplemental Regulations.
Section 5.18  I-2 Heavy Industrial District
5.18.01   Intent:
   This district is intended to reserve sites appropriate
for the location of industrial uses with more intense environmental effects.
The district is designed to provide appropriate space and regulations to
encourage industrial development, while assuring facilities are served with
adequate parking and loading facilities.
5.18.02   Permitted Uses:
   Permitted Uses are allowed according to the table in Section 
5.06, provided the use and/or structure meet the minimum bulk requirements of
the District.
5.18.03   Conditional Uses:
   Conditional Uses are allowed according to the table in Section
5.06, with any conditions as recommended by the Planning Commission and
approved by the City Council.
5.18.04   Temporary Uses:
   Temporary uses may be permitted provided a Temporary Use Permit is
obtained and said temporary use is eliminated at the expiration of the permit.
See Section
4.22.
5.18.05   Accessory Uses and Structures:
   Refer to the definitions of Accessory Uses and Structures, as well as Table
5.06 and Sections within
Article 4 for more detail.
5.18.06   Height and Lot Requirements:
   The height and minimum lot requirements shall be as follows unless otherwise
noted:
 
            Lot Area (Sq. Lot Width  A                  B                  C                  Street Side Yard  Max.   Max. Building Coverage
Use         Ft.)            (feet)      Front Yard (feet) Rear Yard (feet)* Side Yard (feet)* (feet)             Height (%)
                                                                                                                    (feet)
Permitted   -               -           50                 10                 10                 25                 35     85
Uses
Conditional -               -           50                 10                 10                 25                 35     85
Uses
Accessory   -               -           50                 10                 10                 25                 35     20
Structures
*   The rear and side yard setbacks of 10 feet is only allowed when
not adjacent to residential districts; otherwise, it shall be increased to 20
feet.
5.18.07   Use Limitations:
   1.   When adjacent to any residential district, no parking, drives or signs shall be allowed in the required front
yard within 15 feet of such residential district.
   2.   When adjacent to any residential district, new construction shall
provide permanent screen with a height of six feet or six feet four inches if a
fence, in order to minimize impacts on residentially zoned property, pursuant
to Section
9.04.
   3.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded so that no direct light is
cast upon any residential property and so that no glare is visible to any
traffic on any public street.
   4.   When adjacent to an alley, the width of the alley shall be included in
computing the minimum rear yard setback.
   5.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary
to avoid casting direct light on any property located in a residential or
mobile home district.
   6.   All business, service, repair, processing, storage or merchandise
display on property abutting or facing a lot in a residential district shall be
conducted wholly within an enclosed building, unless screened from the
residential district by a sight-obscuring fence permanently maintained at least
six feet in height.
   7.   Openings to structures on sides adjacent to or across the street from a
residential district shall be prohibited if such access or openings will cause
glare, excessive noise or other adverse effects on residential properties.
   8.   Motor vehicle, boat, or trailer rental or sales lots shall be drained
and surfaced with crushed rock or pavement, except in those portions of the lot
maintained as landscape area.
5.18.08   Performance Standards:
   See Section 
9.05 of the Supplemental Regulations.
Section 5.19  GCE: Golf Course Estates District
5.19.01   Intent:
   The GCE, Golf Course Estates district is intended to establish a residential
zone which will allow the development of a golf course and a residential living
environment as a joint use with a variety of single-family housing types while
preserving the value and quality which are customarily appurtenant to and
associated with a golf course/open area development.
5.19.02   Permitted Uses:
   Permitted Uses are allowed according to the table in Section 
5.06, provided the use and/or structure meet the minimum bulk requirements of
the District.
5.19.03   Conditional Uses:
   Conditional Uses are allowed according to the table in Section
5.06, with any conditions as recommended by the Planning Commission and
approved by the City Council.
5.19.04   Temporary Uses:
   Temporary uses may be permitted provided a Temporary Use Permit is
obtained and said temporary use is eliminated at the expiration of the permit.
See Section
4.22.
5.19.05   Accessory Uses and Structures:
   Refer to the definitions of Accessory Uses and Structures, as well as Table
5.06 and Sections within
Article 4 for more detail.
5.19.06   Height and Lot Requirements:
   The height and minimum lot requirements shall be as follows unless otherwise
noted:
 
            Lot Area (Sq. Lot Width  A                  B                 C                 Street Side Yard  Max.   Max. Building Coverage
Use         Ft.)            (feet)      Front Yard (feet) Rear Yard (feet) Side Yard (feet) (feet)             Height (%)
                                                                                                                  (feet)
Permitted   11,500          90          25                 10                10                25                 35     40
Uses
Conditional 11,500          90          25                 10                10                25                 35     40
Uses
Accessory   11,500          90          25                 10                10                25                 20     10
Structures
Section 5.20   Mixed Use Development District (MUDD)
5.20.01   Intent:
   The Mixed-Use Development District (MUDD) is to encourage the creative
design of new living and retail areas, as distinguished from subdivisions of
standard lot sizes, in order to permit such creative design in
buildings, lot sizes, and configurations, open space, while promoting the health, safety, and general
welfare of existing and future residents of surrounding neighborhoods. When a
MUDD District is requested, it will require a change of zone.
5.20.02   Permitted Uses:
The following uses are permitted in the Mixed-Use Development District provided
the requirements of this Article are met.
   1.   All residential uses approved as part of the development plan.
   2.   All commercial uses approved as part of the development plan.
5.20.03   Conditional Uses
   The following uses may be allowed through the approval of a Conditional Use
Permit, as established by this Ordinance, provided all noted as well as
any special conditions required by the City Council are met.
   1.   No established Conditional Uses
5.20.04   Temporary Uses:
The following temporary uses shall be permitted provided a Temporary Use Permit is obtained
and said temporary use is eliminated at the expiration of the permit.
   1.   All uses approved as part of the development plan.
5.20.05   Accessory Uses:
   1.   All uses accessory to the approved principal uses in the development
plan.
5.20.06   Height and Lot Requirements:
   The height and minimum lot requirements shall be as follows:
 
                       Lot   Lot    Front Yard Setbacks Side Yard Setback            Rear Yard Setback Maximum Max. Lot Coverage
Uses                   Area  Width  (feet)               (feet)                        (feet)             Height  (%)
                       (SF)  (feet)                                                                       (feet)
Single Family dwelling4,000 40     *                    *                             *                  35      *
Multi-family and      1,500                             7 / 10 if over 30 feet in
Condominiums           per   60     *                    height                        *                  40      *
                       unit
Two-family dwellings, 2,500 18     *                    *                             *                  *       *
Townhouses
Other Permitted Uses  *     *      *                    *                             *                  40      *
Accessory Building     -     -      *                    *                             *                  15      *
Lot and yard requirements are dependent upon the development and may vary depending upon areas being conserved or
special amenities being used or established and will be reviewed upon submittal of the Development Plan
*   All of these requirements shall be determined in the Development Plan as approved by the
City.
5.20.07   Procedure for MUDD Review:
As a creative design process, development in the MUDD district benefits from a more
collaborative review process than in other districts. The review shall
follow elements of the zoning amendment and subdivision application process.
   1.   The Developer shall meet with City staff to discuss the overall concept
of their proposed Mixed Use Development District, in conjunction with the
Subdivision Pre-Application Procedure.
   2.   The Developer shall provide the City with a conceptual
drawing showing the proposal.
   3.   Once the conceptual plan is agreed to by the Developer and City, then
the Developer shall make a formal application for preliminary approval of the
MUDD zoning amendment and development plan, along with a Preliminary Plat as
required by the Subdivision Regulations.
      A.   The Developer
shall provide documentation regarding the Supplemental Requirements in
5.19.08 and follow all steps in the following sections.
      B.   The Developer shall meet with City staff and a Preliminary review
will be scheduled for the Planning Commission along with review and
recommendation of the Preliminary Plat and Zoning Amendment.
      C.   The concept, the Zoning Amendment, and Preliminary Plat shall be
forwarded to the City
Council for review and approval of the concept and Preliminary Plat.
   4.   Upon approval of the concept and Preliminary Plat, the Developer may
then proceed with the final review and Final Plat.
      A.   The final concept and Final Plat shall include written documentation
of all agreed upon changes and graphic representation of the development plan.
      B.   If the Final concept and Final Plat are not brought forth for
approval within one year the
process shall cease and the rezoning will revert to the previous zoning district.
5.20.08   Supplemental Requirements:
   1.   The Planning Commission, in its minutes, shall set forth its reasons
for recommendation of
approval or denial of the application for a MUDD rezoning and development plan approval,
along with specific evidence and facts showing that the proposal meets or does
not meet the following conditions.
      A.   Said MUDD shall be in general conformity with the provisions of the Kimball Comprehensive
Plan.
      B.   Said MUDD
shall not have a substantially adverse effect on the development of the
neighboring area.
      C.   The minimum size allowed for a MUDD District by type of use shall be
as follows:
         Residential (only), three acres.
         Residential - Commercial (combination), five acres.
      D.   Height, bulk, and yard requirements shall be reflected on the Development Plan and
shall promote an efficient and creative use of land.
   2.   Use Limitations:
   In District MUDD no building, structure, land, or premises shall be used,
and no building shall be erected, constructed, or altered, except for any use
permitted in this District. All uses must be approved as shown on the
Development Plan as specified in this division.
   3.   Standards and conditions for development:
   A development proposed for land classified as the MUDD district shall be
consistent with the following general standards for use of land, and the use,
type, bulk, and location of buildings, the density or intensity of use, open
space, public facilities, and the Development Plan shall, where applicable,
reflect compliance.
      A.   The applicant shall satisfy the Planning Commission and City Council
there is the ability to carry out the proposed plan, including financial
assurances and the phasing of the project, and shall prepare and submit a
schedule of construction, if necessary. The proposed construction shall begin
within a period of 12 months following the approval of the final application by
the City Council. A minimum of 25% of the total planned construction shown on
the final plan shall be completed within a period of five years following such
approval or the approval shall expire. If the approval expires under this
section, the applicant shall show good cause to the Planning Commission to
extend the plan approval.
      B.   The developer shall provide and record easements and covenants, make
such other arrangements, and furnish such performance bonds, escrow deposit, or
other financial guarantees for public improvements as may be determined by the
City Council to be reasonably required to assure performance in accordance with
the Development Plan and to protect the public interest in the event of
abandonment of said plan before completion.
      C.   The site shall be accessible from public roads adequate to carry the
traffic being imposed upon them by the proposed development. The streets and
driveways on the site of the proposed development shall be adequate to serve
the residents or occupants of the proposed development.
      D.   The development shall not impose an undue burden on public services and facilities, such
as fire and police protection.
      E.   The entire tract or parcel of land to be occupied by the MUDD
development shall be held in single ownership or control, or if there are two
or more owners, the application for such MUDD development shall be filed
jointly by all owners. This provision may be waived provided that the land
contains existing improvements.
      F.   The location and arrangement of structures, parking areas, walks,
lighting, and appurtenant facilities shall be compatible with the surrounding
land uses, and any part of a MUDD development not used for structures, parking
and loading areas, or access ways shall be landscaped or otherwise improved as
shown on the Development Plan.
      G.   Off-
street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with the parking and
loading regulations of the City of Kimball.
      H.   When a commercial use within a MUDD District abuts a residential
district, the Development Plan shall reflect screening consisting of
landscaping and/or fencing provided adjacent to any adjoining residential
district; except in the event the adjacent residential use and the commercial
use are separated by a street right-of-way.
      I.   All residential and commercial buildings shall setback not less than
25 feet from the perimeter of the land zoned MUDD. Additional setbacks from a
heavily traveled thoroughfare may be required, when found reasonable by the
planning commission for protection of health, safety, and general welfare.
      J.   Building coverage area shall not exceed the following percentages of the net developable
area of each individual parcel of the total development:
         Residential: 60 percent maximum.
         Commercial: 50 percent maximum.
   NOTE: Building coverage area is the area covered by building(s) or structure
(s) on each individual lot or parcel (not including such impervious
improvements such as but not limited to walkways, driveways, patios etc.). The
net developable area shall be the area of each parcel and the net of any
required yard required under the Development Plan. The Development Plan shall
reflect the calculations used to demonstrate compliance with this requirement.
      K.   A minimum of 20 percent of the net area of a MUDD development reserved for residential
use shall be provided for Common Areas as defined by these regulations under
subsection (p) below. The term “net area” shall be the gross area, measured in
square feet, of the Development Plan devoted to residential use less the area
dedicated for public streets. Common Areas shall be defined as playgrounds,
street medians, landscaped green space, natural conservation and/or
preservation areas designed to be used by the
residents of the development in common with each other. Common Areas for the leisure
and recreation of development residents shall be owned and maintained in common by
them, through a property owners association.
      L.   The MUDD District shall include such provisions for the ownership and maintenance of the
Common Areas as are reasonably necessary to insure its continuity, care,
conservation, and
maintenance, and to insure that remedial measures will be available to the City Council if
the common open
space is permitted to deteriorate, or is not maintained in a condition
consistent with the best interests of the planned unit development or of the
entire community. The applicant shall submit any protective covenants and
organizational documents of the
property owner’s association with the Development Plan.
      M.   No residential use shall have direct access onto an arterial street unless approved by the
City Council in the Development Plan.
      N.   Any commercial use must reflect its traffic flow on the Development Plan. All commercial
areas must have indirect access via a collector or arterial street; however, no
individual
commercial use may have direct access onto collector or arterial streets.
      O.   Sidewalks shall be built to City specifications along all public and
private streets; however, an
alternative pedestrian and sidewalk plan may be developed which provides pedestrian
access between each use in the MUDD development.
      P.   Common Areas as defined under this zoning district shall mean land
area of the site not
covered by buildings, parking, structures, community buildings, or accessory structures, except
recreational structures. Common Areas shall include open space that is
accessible and available to all owners or residents in common pursuant to an
Owner’s Association.
      Q.   The development plan will also identify locations for bus stops and shelters for use by the
school system and Kimball County Transit Service 
(KCTS). Said shelters shall be capable of serving all age groups and provide
adequate shelter from wind, rain, and snow. Said shelters shall be maintain by
any Property owners Association and kept in good repair.
5.20.09   Application for approval of Mixed-Use Development District:
   1.   An application for a MUDD shall be handled in the same manner
prescribed for amending
this Ordinance. The same requirements for notice, advertisement of public hearing, protests,
and adoption shall be required as zoning changes.
   2.   The applicant shall prepare and submit 11 copies of the development
plan (the
“Development Plan”) of the proposed development in the MUDD District for review and approval
by the Planning Commission. The Development Plan shall include:
      A.   A site plan showing:
         ·   Contours at intervals of two feet or spot elevations on a one-
hundred-foot grid shall be required on flat land.
         ·   Location, size, height, and use of all proposed structures and
proposed yards on each lot.
         ·   All points of ingress and egress, driveways, circulation aisles, parking lots, parking spaces,
and service areas.
         ·   All streets adjoining subject property and the width of the existing right-
of-way.
         ·   Areas set aside for Common Areas with the type of use or recreational facilities
planned for each.
         ·   Designation of individual parcels if the proposed development is to be set up in separate
construction phases.
         ·   Designation of individual lots if such lots are proposed to be sold to individual
owners.
         ·   Location of required screening.
         ·   Location of natural features such as ponds, drainageways, tree
clusters, and rock outcropping.
         ·   Existing development on adjacent properties within 200 feet.
      B.   The above-
described site plan shall also include a section designated as "general
provisions," and said section shall include the following when, said items are applicable:
         ·   Net area in square feet of the development. (Note: Net area shall
be computed as
the gross area less the land dedicated or necessary to be dedicated for public street
right-of-way.
         ·   Density of dwelling units per acre of the total dwelling units for the entire
plan.
         ·   Building coverage of the net area of the development by individual parcel or total
development.
         ·   The percentage of the Development Plan provided for common open
space as defined by this regulation. (Note:  20 percent is the minimum).
         ·   If more than one parcel is proposed, a statement relating to the
sequence of development shall be included.
         ·   Required number of parking spaces and location.
         ·   Gross floor area proposed for commercial buildings.
         ·   All proposed land uses shall be listed by parcel.
      C.   A statement or adequate drawings shall be included describing the
manner for the disposition of sanitary waste and storm water.
      D.   The full legal description of the boundaries of the property or
properties to be included in the MUDD development.
      E.   A vicinity map showing the general arrangement of streets within an
area of 1,000 feet from the boundaries of the proposed MUDD development.
      F.   An elevation drawing of the general characteristics of the proposed buildings may be
submitted if the applicant desires.
      G.   When a MUDD development includes provisions for common space and/
or recreational facilities, a statement describing how such open space and/or
facility be owned and maintained when not under the ownership of a governmental
entity. A homeowner association or other controlling entity shall provide the
City of Kimball with copies of the proposed articles of incorporation and
bylaws of such entity.
   3.   The Planning Commission shall meet within 45 days of an application
being filed. Plans shall be
filed with the City at least four weeks prior to a scheduled Planning Commission meeting. After the
application for a MUDD development is filed, the Planning Commission shall hold
a public
hearing on said development after giving required notice for hearings in amendments. Said
public hearing may be adjourned from time to time and, within a reasonable period of time
after the conclusion of said public hearing, the planning commission shall prepare and transmit to
the City Council and the applicant specific findings of fact with respect to
the extent which the Development Plan complies with those regulations, together
with its recommendations in respect
to the action to be taken on the Development Plan and MUDD requirements. The
planning commission may recommend disapproval, approval, or approval with
amendments, conditions or restrictions.
   4.   The City Council shall or shall not approve the Development Plan and
authorize the submitting of the final Development Plan.
   5.   Substantial or significant changes in the preliminary plat and MUDD
design shall only be made
after rehearing and reapproval unless the changes were otherwise required by the Planning
Commission or the City Council.
5.20.10   Final approval:
   1.   After approval of a Development Plan and prior to the issuance of any
building permit or zoning permit, the applicant shall submit an application for
final approval with the MUDD development compliance review committee. Said
final application may include the entire MUDD District or may be for a unit or
section thereof as set forth in the approval of the preliminary plan. The
application shall include 11 copies of such drawings, specifications,
covenants, easements, conditions, and any other conditions including but not
limited to performance bonds. As set forth in the approval of the Development
Plan preliminary plan and in accordance with the conditions established in this
chapter for a MUDD District. The final plan shall include the same information,
as the preliminary plan except the following shall also be provided:
      A.   A surveyor's certificate certifying to the accuracy of the boundary surveys
shown.
      B.   Location, names, tangent lengths, centerline radius of each curve
and its interior width and angle of all proposed public right-of-way.
      C.   All easements and appropriate building setback lines.
      D.   All lot lines, and lot dimensions including chord distances for curvilinear lot
lines.
      E.   Lot and/or parcel numbers.
      F.   Location, size, height, and use of all proposed or present
buildings.
      G.   Dedication of all streets, public highways, or other land intended for public use, signed by the
owner and by all other parties who have a mortgage or lien interest in the property,
together with any restrictions or covenants which apply to the property.
      H.   A waiver of claim by the applicant for damages occasioned by the
establishment of grades or the alteration of the surface of any portion of
streets and alleys to conform to grades established.
   2.   A plan submitted for final approval shall be deemed to be in
substantial compliance with the plan previously given tentative approval,
provided any modification of the Development Plan does not:
      A.   Vary the proposed gross residential density or intensity of use by more than five percent or
involve a reduction in the area set aside for common open space, nor the
substantial relocation of such area; nor
      B.   Increase by more than 10 percent the floor area proposed for non-
residential use; nor
      C.   Increase by more than five percent the total ground area covered by buildings nor involve a
substantial change in the height of buildings.
      D.   Substantially change the design of the plan so as to significantly
alter:
         ·   Pedestrian or vehicular traffic flow.
         ·   The juxtaposition of different land uses.
         ·   The relation of open space to residential development.
         ·   The proposed phasing of construction.
         ·   Proposed use of one or more buildings to a more intensive use category as
delineated in this chapter.
   3.   A public hearing need not be held for the approval of a final plan if
it is in substantial compliance with the approved preliminary plan but only for
the proposed rezoning. The planning commission shall, within thirty 30 business
days of the time of filing, review the final plan for
compliance with the approved preliminary plan and make a recommendation for the change
of zone. Upon review approval, said final plan shall be filed with the City
Council for final approval and acceptance.
   4.   In the event the final plan submitted contains changes in excess of
those permitted under Subparagraph (2) above, applicant shall resubmit the
original plan. The Development Plan shall be
modified in the same manner prescribed in this division as for original approval.
5.20.11   Enforcement and modification of plan:
   1.   To further the mutual interest of the residents and owners of the MUDD development and of
the public in the preservation of the integrity of the MUDD plan, as finally
approved, and to insure modifications, if any, in the plan shall not impair the
reasonable reliance of the said residents and owners upon the provisions of the
plan, nor result in changes adversely affecting the public interest, the
enforcement and modification of the provisions of the plan as finally
approved, whether recorded by plan, covenant, easement or otherwise, shall be subject to
the following provisions:
      A.   The use of land and the use, bulk, and location of buildings and structures;
and
      B.   The quality and location of common space; and
      C.   The intensity of use or the density of residential units shall run in favor of the City
and
      D.   Shall be enforceable in law or in equity, by the City, without
limitation on any powers or
regulation otherwise granted by law. The development of any land pursuant to an approved
Development Plan shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of
this Ordinance and the approved Development Plan.
5.20.12   Amendments:
   The MUDD District agreement or an approved Development Plan may be amended in the same
manner prescribed in this division for approval of a preliminary or final plan.
Application for amendment may be made by the property owners association or 51
percent of the owners of the property within the MUDD District.
5.20.13   Platting:
   For unplatted tracts or tracts being replatted, the approval of the
Development Plan shall be considered as the approval of a preliminary plan. To
complete the platting process, the applicant need only submit a final plat.
Said final plat shall be in accordance with the subdivision regulations,
except the scale shall be 100 feet, 50 feet, or 20 feet to the inch.
Section 5.21 Airport Hazard Area District (AH)
5.21.01   Intent
   The intent of this district is be appended and to overlay any of the primary
zoning districts as described in this Ordinance to protect the safe use of
public airports and their Airport Hazard Area, in Kimball, by limiting the
location and height of structures within the operation, approach, transition
and turning zones around airports which are registered with
the Nebraska Division of Aeronautics, as designated on the Official Zoning Map
of Kimball, Nebraska.
Designated Public Airport
The designated public airport for which these regulations have been prepared is the Kimball Municipal
Airport located as follows:
TOWNSHIP 15 NORTH, RANGE 55 WEST OF THE 6TH P.M.
Part of SW/4                     Section 34
Parts of NE/4 and the NW/4, SE/4 and SW/4      Section 33
Parts of NW/4 and NE/4 and S/2            Section 32
All                        Section 31
 
TOWNSHIP 15 NORTH, RANGE 56 WEST OF THE 6TH P.M.
Part of S/2                     Section 34
Part of NE/4, Part of NW/4 and S/2         Section 35
All                        Section 36
 
TOWNSHIP 14 NORTH, RANGE 55 WEST OF THE 6TH P.M.
Part of NE/4, Part NW/4, Part SE/4, and SW/4      Section 3
All                        Sections 4,5,6,7,8,9,15,16,17,18,19,20, 21
Part NE/4, Part of SE/4 and W/2            Section 10
Part NE/4, Part of SE/4 and W/2            Section 22
All                        Sections 28,29,30,31,32
Part of NE/4, Part of NW/4 and Part of SW/4      Section 33
 
TOWNSHIP 14 NORTH, RANGE 56 WEST OF THE 6TH P.M.
All                        Sections 1,2 and 3
E/2                        Section 9
All                        Sections 10,11,12, 13,14,15, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 36
E/2                        Section 16
Part of NE/4 and Part of SE/4            Section 21
Part SE/4, Part of NE/4, and Part of NW/4      Section 27
Part of NE/4, Part of NW/4 and Part of SE/4      Section 35
 
PARTS OF CITY OF KIMBALL AS DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
Parts of blocks 1, 2, 3 & 4, all of blocks 5,6,7,8,9,10,11 & 12 of Leaming’s Addition
All of Yannayon’s Addition
All of South Park Addition
All of Rodman Court
All of Clarkson’s Addition
All of Forsling’s Addition
All of Fairview Addition
All of Dowd’s Addition 
All of Tritt’s Addition
All of Alden’s Addition
All of Kimball Heights
All of Huff’s Addition
All of Dowd’s Second Addition
All of Crestwood Addition
All of Summit Park Addition
All of Hull’s Subdivision
Parts of Kimball Jr./Sr. High School,19.818 acres in 32-15-55
Part of Blocks 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 Sunnyview Heights Addition
Part of Blocks 11, 12, 13, 14, and 15 Sunnyview Heights Addition
All of Hillcrest 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th Additions
All of Kimball County High School,
 
Airport Hazard Area Description
In accordance with Neb. Rev. Stat. §3-303, every political subdivision that has
adopted a comprehensive plan and zoning regulations and has an airport hazard
area within the area of its zoning jurisdiction, must adopt, administer, and
enforce the regulations in this section for such airport hazard area.
5.21.02   Definitions
Airport shall mean an area of land or water designed and set aside that is used
or intended to be used for the landing and taking off takeoff of aircraft and
utilized or to be utilized in the interest of the public for such purposes;
includes any related buildings and facilities. Airport includes only public-use
airports with state or federally approved airport layout plans and military
airports with military service-approved military layout plans.
Airport hazard shall mean any structure or tree or use of land which obstructs
the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or
taking off at an airport or is otherwise hazardous to such
landing or taking off of aircraft; that penetrates any approach, operation,
transition, or turning zone.
Airport hazard area shall mean any area of land or water upon which an airport
hazard might be established if not prevented as provided in the act, but such
area shall not extend in any direction a distance in excess of three miles from
the adjacent boundary of an airport; the limits provided for approach,
operation, transition, and turning zones.
Airport layout plan shall mean a scaled drawing of existing and proposed land,
buildings, and facilities necessary for the operation and development of an
airport prepared in accordance with state rules and regulations and federal
regulations and guidelines.
Approach zone shall mean a zone that extends from the end of each operation
zone and is centered along the extended runway centerlines.
Electric facility shall mean an overhead electrical
line, including poles or other supporting structures, owned or operated by an
electric supplier as defined in section 70-1001.01 of the Revised Nebraska
State Statutes, for the transmission or distribution of electrical power to the
electric supplier’s customers.
Existing runway shall mean an instrument runway or a visual runway that is
paved or made of turf that has been constructed or is under construction.
Instrument runway shall mean an existing runway with precision or non-precision
instrument approaches as developed and published by the Federal Aviation
Administration or an existing or proposed runway with future precision or non-
precision instrument approaches reflected on the airport layout plan. After the
effective date of this act, an airport shall not designate an existing or
proposed runway as an instrument runway if the runway was not previously
designated as such without the approval of the airport’s governing body after a
public hearing on such designation.
Operation zone 
shall mean a zone that is longitudinally centered on each existing or proposed
runway.
Person shall mean any individual, firm, partnership, limited liability company,
corporation, company, association, joint-stock association, or body politic and
includes any trustee, receiver, assignee, or other similar representative
thereof.
Political subdivision  shall mean any municipality, city, village, or county.
Proposed runway shall mean an instrument runway or a visual runway that has not
been constructed and is not under construction but that is depicted on the
airport layout plan that has been conditionally or unconditionally approved by,
or has been submitted for approval to, the Federal Aviation Administration.
Runway shall mean a defined area at an airport that is prepared for the landing
and takeoff of aircraft along its length;
Structure means any object constructed or installed by man, including, but
without limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks, and overhead transmission
or distribution lines.
Transition zone shall mean a zone that extends outward at a right angle to the
runway centerline and upward at a rate of one foot vertically for every seven
feet horizontally. The height limit of a transition zone begins at the height
limit of the adjacent approach zone or operation zone and ends at a height of
one hundred fifty feet above the highest elevation on the existing or proposed
runway.
Tree  shall mean any object of natural growth.
Turning zone’s outer limit shall means the area located at a distance of three
miles as a radius from the corners of the operation zone of each runway and
connecting adjacent arcs with tangent lines, excluding any area within the
approach zone, operation zone, or transition zone. The height limit of the
turning zone is one hundred fifty feet above the highest elevation on the
existing or proposed runway.
Visual runway shall mean a runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft
using visual approach procedures, with no straight-
in instrument approach procedure and no instrument designation indicated on an
airport layout plan approved by the Federal Aviation Administration, a military
service-approved military layout plan, or any planning documents submitted to
the Federal Aviation Administration by a competent authority.
5.21.03   Airport Zones
The following are intended for use with this specific overlay zoning district.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-170.png]
 
Airport Hazard Area 
consists of Operation Zones, Approach Zones, Turning Zones, and Transition
Zones.
Approach Zones  extend from the end of each operation zone and are centered
along the extended runway centerlines. The zones’ dimensions are:
   1.   Instrument Runways:
      A.   Length and Width: The approach zones extend from the operation zone
to the limits of the turning zone, measured along the extended runway
centerline. The approach zones are 1,000 feet wide at the end nearest the
runway and expand uniformly so that at a point on the extended runway
centerline 10 miles from the operation zone where it is 16,840 feet wide.
      B.   Height Limit: The height limit of the approach zones begins at the
elevation of the operation zone and rises one foot vertically for every 50 feet
horizontally (50:1) up to a maximum of 150 feet above the nearest existing or
proposed runway end. At three miles from such operation zone, the height limit
resumes sloping one foot vertically for every 50 feet horizontally and
continues to the 10-mile limit.
   2.   Visual Runways:
      A.   Length and Width: The approach zones extend from the operation zone
to the limits of the turning
zone, measured along the extended runway centerline. The approach zones are 500 feet wide at
the end nearest the runway and expand uniformly so that at a point on the
extended runway centerline three miles from the operation zone, the approach
zone is 3,700 feet wide.
      B.   Height: The height limit of the approach zones begins at the
elevation of the operation zone and rises one foot vertically for every 40 feet
horizontally (40:1) up to a maximum of 150 feet above the nearest existing or
proposed runway end.
Operation Zones  are longitudinally centered on each existing or proposed
runway:
   1.   Length:
      A.   For existing and proposed paved runways, the operation zones begin
and end 200 feet beyond the end of each runway.
      B.   For existing and proposed turf runways, the operation zones begin and end at the runway
ends.
      C.   For existing and proposed instrument runways, the operation zone is 1,000 feet wide, with 500
hundred feet on either side of the runway centerline.
      D.   For all other existing and proposed runways, the operation zone is 500 feet wide, with 250 feet on
either side of the runway centerline;
   2.   Height:
 The height limit of the operation zones is the same as the nearest point on an existing or
proposed runway or the surface of the ground, whichever is higher.
Transition Zones  extend outward at right angles to the runway centerline and
upward at a rate of one foot vertically for every seven feet horizontally (7:
1). The height limit of these zones begins at the height limit of the adjacent
operation zones or approach zones. The transition zones end at a height of 150
feet above the nearest existing or proposed runway end.
Turning Zones  extend three miles as a radius from the corners of the operation
zone of each runway and connecting adjacent arcs with tangent lines, excluding
any area within the approach zone, operation zone, or transition zone. The
height limit of the turning zones is 150 feet above the nearest existing or
proposed runway end.
5.21.04   Height Restrictions
   No building, transmission line, pole, tower, chimney, wires, or other
structure or appurtenance of any kind or character shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, repaired, or established, nor shall any tree or other object of
natural growth be allowed to grow, above the heights described in subsection
5.20.03 above.
5.21.05   Airport Zoning Map and Location
   The boundaries, operation zones, approach zones, transition zones, and
turning zones of the airport are indicated on the Airport Zoning Map, which is
attached hereto and made a part hereof by reference. A copy of the
Airport Zoning Regulations and Airport Zoning Map shall at all times be on
file in the office of the Zoning Administrator and City Clerk.
5.21.06   Permit Requirements, Exceptions, Application Forms, And Fees
   1.   Anyone wishing to erect, construct, reconstruct, repair, or establish
any building, transmission line, communication line, pole, tower, smokestack,
chimney, wires, or other structure or appurtenance thereto of any kind or
character; or to plant or replant any tree or other object of natural growth
which, when mature, would not violate the requirements of Section 5.20.03
above, within the Airport Hazard Area must first obtain a permit from Zoning
Administrator.
   2.   Exception:
   Within the Turning Zones, no permit shall be required for any construction,
reconstruction, repair, or planting of anything which, when completed, or, in
the case of natural growth, when mature, does not exceed seventy-five 75 feet
above the nearest existing or proposed runway end.
   3.   Application Form:
   Application for a permit as required under these regulations shall be made
on a form to be available in the office of the Zoning Administrator and shall
indicate the approximate location, ground elevation with reference to the end
of the nearest runway or landing strip and height of the proposed structure or
planting. (Mean Sea Level Elevation)
   4.   Permit Fee:
   The fee for each permit issued shall be established by the City Council as a
separate Resolution to the Zoning Resolution, and all fees so paid shall be
deposited into the county’s general fund.
5.21.07   Non-Conforming Structures
   1.   Within the Airport Hazard Area, no non-conforming building,
transmission line, pole, tower, chimney, wires, or other structure or
appurtenance of any kind or character or object of natural growth; and no such
structures or objects of natural growth have been torn down, destroyed, have
deteriorated or decayed to an extent of 50% or more of their original
condition, or abandoned for a period of 12 months or more; shall hereafter be
replaced, substantially reconstructed, repaired, altered, replanted, or allowed
to grow, as the case may be, to a height above the heights permitted by these
regulations. Transmission lines and other communication lines shall be
interpreted as all poles, wires, guys and all other equipment necessary for the
operation and maintenance of same within the regulated zone.
   2.   Except as provided in subsection (3) of this section for certain
electric facilities, all such airport zoning regulations adopted under the act
shall provide that before any nonconforming structure or tree may be replaced,
substantially altered or repaired, rebuilt, allowed to grow higher, or
replanted, a permit authorizing any replacement, alteration, repair,
reconstruction, growth, or replanting must be secured from the administrative
agency authorized to administer and enforce the regulations. A permit shall be
granted under this subsection if the applicant shows that the replacement,
alteration, repair, reconstruction, growth, or replanting of the nonconforming
structure, tree, or nonconforming use would not result in an increase in height
or a greater hazard to air navigation than the condition that existed when the
applicable regulation was adopted. For nonconforming structures other than
electric facilities, no permit under this subsection shall be required for
repairs necessitated by fire, explosion, act of God, or the common enemy or for
repairs which do not involve expenditures exceeding more than sixty percent of
the fair market value of the nonconforming structure, so long as the height of
the nonconforming structure is not increased over its preexisting height.
   3.   An electric supplier owning or operating an electric facility made
nonconforming by the adoption of airport zoning regulations under the Airport
Zoning Act may, without a permit or other approval by the political subdivision
adopting such regulations, repair, reconstruct, or replace such electric
facility if the height of such electric facility is not increased over its
preexisting height. Any construction, repair, reconstruction, or replacement of
an electric facility, the height of which will exceed the preexisting height of
such electric facility, shall require a permit from the political subdivision
adopting such regulations. The permit shall be granted only upon a showing that
the excess height of the electric facility will not establish or create an
airport hazard or become a greater hazard to air navigation than the electric
facility that previously existed.
5.21.08   Marking Of Non-Conforming Structures
   Whenever the Zoning Administrator determines that a specific structure or
object in the Airport Hazard Area exceeds the height restrictions and existed
prior to the promulgation of these regulations, the owner(s) and/or the lessor
(s) of the premises on which the structure or object is located shall be
notified in writing by the Zoning Administrator. The owner(s) and lessor(s)
shall, within a reasonable time, permit the marking and lighting of the
structure or object. The Zoning Administrator shall specify the required
marking and lighting,
consistent with these regulations entitled “Marking and Lighting of Structures”. The cost of marking or lighting
shall not be assessed against the owner or lessor of said premises.
5.21.09   Administrative Agency; Enforcement
   The Zoning Administrator shall administer and enforce these regulations and
shall be the administrative agency provided for in Neb. Rev. Stat. §
5.21.10   Variance from Regulations
   1.   Any person desiring to erect any structure, increase the height of any
structure, permit the growth of any tree, or otherwise use his or her property
in a manner inconsistent with the airport zoning regulations adopted under this
regulation may apply to the board of adjustment for a variance from the zoning
regulations in question. Such variances shall be allowed only
if the board of adjustment makes the same findings for the granting of
variances generally as set forth in Neb. Rev. Stat. §19-909, except that if the
applicant demonstrates that the proposed structure or alteration of a structure
does not require any
modification or revision to any approach or approach procedure as approved or written by the Federal
Aviation Administration on either an existing or proposed runway and the
applicant provides signed documentation from the Federal Aviation
Administration that the proposed structure or alteration of the structure will
not require any modification or revision of any airport minimums, such
documentation may constitute evidence of
undue hardship and the board of adjustment may grant the requested variance
without such findings. Any variance may be allowed subject to any reasonable
conditions that the Board of Adjustment may deem necessary to effectuate the
purposes of this regulation.
   2.   In granting any permit under or variance from any airport zoning
regulation adopted under this regulation, the administrative agency or board of
adjustment may, if it deems such action is advisable to effectuate the purposes
of the regulation and reasonable in the circumstances, so condition such permit
or variance as to require the owner of the structure or tree in question to
permit the political subdivision, at its own expense, to install, operate, and
maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to
flyers the presence of an airport hazard.
5.21.11   Zoning Board of Adjustment
   The Kimball Board of Adjustment shall be the board of adjustment with
respect to these regulations. Said board shall have and exercise the powers
conferred by Neb. Rev. Stat. §3-320 et. seq. and such other powers and duties
as are conferred and imposed by law.
5.21.12   Permitted Principal Uses and Structures
   Any use or structure that is permitted in the primary zoning district where
this district is overlain, provided all buildings, structures and other
obstacles comply with the height restrictions established in Section
5.20.03 above.
5.21.13   Conditional Uses
   Any conditional use that is permitted in the primary zoning district where
this district is overlain where such conditional use has been duly authorized
by the City Council in accordance with the requirements and procedures
specified in this Ordinance, provided all buildings, structures and other
obstacles comply with the height restrictions set forth in Section
5.20.03 above.
5.21.14   Accessory Structures
   Any accessory use or structure that is permitted in the primary zoning
district where this district is overlain, provided all buildings, structures
and other obstacles comply with the height restrictions established in Section
5.20.03 above.
5.21.15   Conflicting Regulations
   In the event of any conflict between any airport zoning regulations adopted
under this regulation and any other regulations applicable to the same area,
whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or trees, the
use of land, or any other matter, and whether such other regulations were
adopted by the political subdivision which adopted the airport zoning
regulations or by some other political subdivision, the more stringent
limitation or requirement shall govern.
Article 6: Conditional Use Permits
Section 6.01 General Provisions
The City Council may authorize and permit a conditional use as designated in
the use regulations of each district, after the following:
   1.   Planning Commission Public Hearing,
   2.   Referral by the Planning Commission; and
   3.   City Council Public Hearing
   Approval or denial shall be based on findings that the location and characteristics of the use will not be
detrimental to the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the area.
   Allowable uses may be permitted, enlarged, or altered upon application for a
conditional use permit in accordance with the rules and procedures of this
ordinance. The City Council may grant or deny a Conditional Use Permit in
accordance with the intent and purpose of this ordinance.
In granting a conditional use permit, the City Council may:
   1.   Authorize the use and
   2.   Shall prescribe and impose appropriate conditions, safeguards, and a specified time limit for the
implementation of the identified conditional use permit.
Section 6.02  Application for Conditional Use Permit
   A request for a conditional use permit or modification of a Conditional Use
Permit may be initiated by a property owner or his or her authorized agent by
filing an application with the City upon forms prescribed for the purpose.
   The application shall be accompanied by a drawing or site plan and other
such plans and data showing the dimensions, arrangements, descriptions data,
and other materials constituting a record essential to an understanding of the
proposed use and proposed modifications in relation to the provisions set forth
herein. A plan as to the operation and maintenance of the proposed use shall
also be submitted.
   The application shall be accompanied by a non-
refundable fee as established by the City Council.
Section 6.03  Public Hearing
   Before issuance of any conditional use permit, both the Planning Commission
and City Council shall hold a Public Hearing after proper and legal
notice of the time, place, and purpose of the hearing has been given
by publication in a legal paper of general circulation in the City of Kimball,
one time at least 10 days prior to such hearing.
   The City Council will consider the application for the Conditional Use
Permit together with the recommendations of the Planning Commission.
Section 6.04 Decisions
   A majority vote of the City Council shall be necessary to grant a Conditional Use
Permit.
   The applicant shall have 12 months from the approval of the Conditional Use
Permit to commence the use unless the City Council specifically grants a longer
period of time upon the recommendation of the City Planning Commission. If the
use stated within the Conditional Use Permit has not commenced within 12
months, or approved time period, said Permit shall become invalid and any
activity shall be required to apply for a new Conditional Use Permit.
   All decisions by the City Council and the recommendations of the
Planning Commission shall be required to provide findings of fact for their
decision for either approval or denial.
Section 6.05 Transferability
Any approved Conditional Use Permit is automatically transferable upon sale of
the property from the original applicant to another party. However, the new
owner shall assume the responsibility for complying with:
   1.   the conditions of the granted permit,
   2.   The use shall not change or be expanded unless a new Conditional Use Permit is
approved,
   3.   Failure to comply with the conditions of the permit shall subject the
new owner to the revocation process of this Article.
Section 6.06 Revocation
   Any approved Conditional Use Permit may be revoked for failure to comply
with the conditions approved by the City Council. Revocation shall require that
the City notify the applicant of any noncompliance, in writing, and provide the
applicant with 30 days to correct the issue(s).
   Failure to comply with the notice shall cause a Public Hearing to be
scheduled by the City Council, to review the permit and the approved conditions
and the failure to act by the applicant. If the applicant is found to be
noncompliant with the issued permit and conditions, the City Council shall
revoke the permit and order the use to cease and desist.
   Failure to follow a Cease-and-Desist order shall cause an action to be filed
by the City Attorney in District Court.
   Revocation may also occur if the City documents the use has ceased
operations for 12 consecutive months. The City shall notify the applicant of
the revocation in writing. The permit shall be invalid within 30 days.
Section 6.07 Standards
No conditional use permit shall be granted unless the Planning Commission or City Council has
found:
   1.   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the conditional use
will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, moral,
comfort, or general welfare of the community.
   2.   The conditional use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purpose already permitted, nor
substantially diminish and impair property values within the neighborhood.
   3.   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the normal and
orderly development of the surrounding property for uses permitted in the
district.
   4.   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and/or necessary facilities
have been or are being provided.
   5.   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets.
   6.   The use shall not include noise, which is objectionable due to volume,
frequency, or beat unless muffled or otherwise controlled.
   7.   The use shall not involve any pollution of the air by fly-ash, dust,
vapors or other substance which is harmful to health, animals, vegetation or
other property or which can cause soiling, discomfort, or irritation.
   8.   The use shall not involve any malodorous gas or matter, which is
discernible on any adjoining lot or property.
   9.   The use shall not involve any direct or reflected glare, which is
visible from any adjoining property or from any public street, road, or
highway.
   10.   The use shall not involve any activity substantially increasing the
movement of traffic on public streets unless procedures are instituted to limit
traffic hazards and congestion.
   11.   The use shall not involve any activity substantially
increasing the burden on any public utilities or facilities unless provisions
are made for any necessary adjustments.
Article 7: Parking Requirements
Section 7.01 Purpose
   The Off-Street Parking Regulations require developments to provide parking
in proportion to the need created by each use. The regulations further
establish standards for the functional design of parking facilities. These
regulations are intended to accommodate vehicles in a functionally satisfactory
manner and to minimize external effects on neighboring properties.
Section 7.02 Off-Street Automobile Parking
   2.   Off-
street automobile parking space shall be provided on any lot on which any of the uses or similar uses
are found in Section
7.03.
   3.   Off-
street automobile parking shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or an
alley.
   4.   For the purpose of computing the number of parking spaces available in
a given area, the ratio of 250 square feet per parking space shall be used.
Where calculations in accordance with the foregoing list results in requiring a
fractional space, any fraction less than one-half shall be disregarded and any
fraction of one-half or more shall require one space.
   5.   All off-street parking spaces shall
be paved with a Portland Cement, asphaltic concrete, paving brick or brick, the
thickness of which shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator or designee
due consideration being given to the likely use of the facility by heavy
vehicles and the anticipated degree of use.
   6.   Any off-street parking lot in C-1, C-2, C-3, R-1 and R-2 zones must be
hard surface. All required parking spaces, as defined in this Article, for
passenger vehicles shall be paved in any zone. The minimal parking lot surface
material in all zones shall be gravel, except C-1, C-2, C-3, R-1 and R-2 zones.
   7.   Required off-street parking areas for three or more automobiles,
excluding private residential use, shall have individual spaces marked for hard
surface parking lots, and shall be so designed, maintained, and regulated that
no parking nor maneuvering incidental to parking shall be on any public street,
walk, or alley, and so that any automobile may be parked and unparked without
moving another.
   8.   In Districts RE, R-1, R-2, GCE, and MUDD required off-street parking
for residential uses shall be provided on the lot on which the use is located.
In all other districts, if the vehicle storage space or standing space required
in section 7.03 cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the
principal use is conducted in the opinion of the Planning Commission and City
Council, the City Council may permit such space to be provided on another off-
street property, provided such space lies within 400
feet of an entrance to such principal use. Such vehicle parking space shall be deemed to be a required
open space associated with the permitted use and shall not thereafter be
reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
   9.   Where off-street parking is located on a lot other than the lot
occupied by the use, which requires it, site plan approval for both lots is
required.
   10.   Some uses may require two different use types to
be calculated together in order to determine the total parking requirement,
i.e., primary schools may require one calculation for classrooms and another
for assembly areas.
   11.   The parking requirements herein do not apply to the C-
1 Central Business District.
   12.   All off-
street parking conditions shall meet the ADA requirements in Section 
7.05 of this Ordinance.
Section 7.03  Schedule of Minimum Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
Uses Parking Requirements Loading Requirements
Uses                                         Parking Requirements                                                                        Loading
                                                                                                                                         Requirements
Commercial and Office including but not limited to:
 Adult Entertainment Establishments         1 space/person of licensed capacity                                                      None required
 Agricultural Sales/Service                  1 space/500 s.f. of gross floor area                                                   1 space/
                                                                                                                                         establishment
 Auditoriums/Stadiums/Arenas                 1 space/4 seats in main assembly area                                                  None required
 Automotive Rental/Sales                     1 space/500 s.f. of gross floor area                                                   1 space/
                                                                                                                                         establishment
 Automotive Servicing                        4 spaces/repair stall                                                                      None required
 Boarding Houses/Bed and Breakfasts        1 space/rental units                                                                       None required
 Body Repair                                 5 spaces/repair stall                                                                      None required
 Bowling Alleys                              4 spaces/alley plus 1 space per 2 employees                                           1 space/
                                                                                                                                         establishment
 Campground                                  1 space/camping unit                                                                       None required
 Child Care Centers                         1 space/employee + 1 space or loading stall/each 5 persons of licensed capacity  None required
 Churches, Synagogues, and Temples         1 space/4 seats in main worship area                                                   None required
 Clubs, including Fraternal Organizations  1 space/500 s.f. of gross floor area                                                   None required
 Commercial Recreation                       1 space/2 persons of licensed capacity                                                    1 space/
                                                                                                                                         establishment
 Communication Services                      1 space/500 s.f. of gross floor area                                                   1 space/
                                                                                                                                         establishment
 Construction Sales/Service                  1 space/500 s.f. of gross floor area                                                   1 space/
                                                                                                                                         establishment
 Dance Hall, Skating Rink                  1 space/100 square feet of floor area + 1 space/2 employees                        None required
 Educational Uses, Primary Facilities      2 spaces/classroom                                                                          2 spaces/
                                                                                                                                         structure
 Educational Uses, Secondary Facilities    8 spaces/classroom + 1 space/employee on largest shift                                2 spaces/
                                                                                                                                         structure
 Equipment Rental/Sales                      1 space/500 s.f. of gross floor area                                                   1 Space/
                                                                                                                                         establishment
 Food Sales (limited)                       1 space/300 s.f. of gross floor area                                                   1 space/
                                                                                                                                         establishment
 Food Sales (general)                       1 space/200 s.f. of gross floor area                                                   2 spaces/
                                                                                                                                         establishment
 Funeral Homes, Mortuaries and Chapels    8 spaces/reposing room                                                                     2 spaces/
                                                                                                                                         establishment
 General Retail Sales & Services         1 space/200 s.f. of gross floor area                                                   1 space/
 Establishments                                                                                                                          establishment
 Guidance Services                           1 space/300 s.f. of gross floor area                                                   None required
 Hospitals                                   1 space/2 licensed beds                                                                    3 spaces/
                                                                                                                                         structure
 Hotels and Motels                          1 space/rental unit + 1 space/each 200 s.f. of public meeting area                  1 space/
                                                                                                                                         establishment
 Laundry Services                            1 space/200 s.f. of gross floor area                                                   None required
 Libraries                                   1 space/400 s.f. of gross floor area + 1 space/ 2 employees                         1 space/
                                                                                                                                         structure
 Medical Clinics                             5 spaces/staff doctor, dentist, chiropractor                                             None required
 Offices and Office Buildings              1 space/300 s.f. of gross floor area + 1 space/2 employees                          None required
                                             Greater of the two:                                                                        1 space/
 Restaurants w/ drive-thru                 1 space/40 s.f. of dining area, or                                                     establishment
                                             1 space/150 s.f. of gross floor area
 Restaurants (General)                       Parking equal to 30% of licensed capacity                                              2 spaces/
                                                                                                                                         establishment
 Roadside Stands                             4 spaces/establishment                                                                      None required
 Service Oriented Establishments            1 space/200 s.f. of gross floor area                                                   1 space/
                                                                                                                                         establishment
 Theaters, Auditoriums, & Places of Assem1 space/4 persons of licensed capacity                                                    1 space/
                                                                                                                                         establishment
 Veterinary Establishments                   1 spaces/500 square feet/staff doctor                                                    None required
Residential/Housing including but not limited to:
 Assisted-living Facilities                  .5 space/dwelling unit                                                                     1 space/
                                                                                                                                         structure
 Convalescent & Nursing Home Services     1 space/4 beds + 1/employee on the largest shift                                     2 space/
                                                                                                                                         structure
 Duplex                                      2 spaces per dwelling unit                                                               None required
 Group Care Facility                        1 space/4 persons of licensed capacity                                                    2 space/
                                                                                                                                         structure
 Group Home                                  1 space/4 persons of licensed capacity                                                    2 space/
                                                                                                                                         structure
 Multi-family / Apartments                  1 space/sleeping unit – spaces to be sited in the general proximity of where None required
                                             units are located
 Mobile Home Park                           2/dwelling unit                                                                             None required
 Residential (Single-family, attached and 2 spaces/dwelling unit (1 may be enclosed or semi-enclosed)                         None required
 detached)
Industrial Uses including but not limited to:
 General Manufacturing                       .75 times the maximum number of employees during the largest shift                 2 spaces/
                                                                                                                                         establishment
 Wholesaling / Distribution Operations     1 space/2 employees on the largest shift                                               2 spaces/
                                                                                                                                         establishment
Section 7.04  Off-Street Parking: Shared Parking Requirements
   1.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
7.03, in cases where parking and building patterns
are such that overlapping uses of a majority
of the total number of parking spaces in a common parking
lot is likely to occur, compliance with the standard parking ratios may be
decreased by the Planning Commission and City Council.
Section 7.05  Off-Street Parking: Parking for Individuals with Disabilities
   1.   In conformance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and the
Nebraska Accessibility Guidelines, if parking spaces are provided for self-
parking by employees or visitors, or both, then accessible spaces shall be
provided in each parking area in conformance with the table in
this section. Spaces required by the table need not be provided in the
particular lot. They may be provided in a different, if equivalent or greater
accessibility, in terms of distance from an accessible entrance, cost and
convenience, is ensured.
Total Parking SpacesRequired Minimum Number of Accessible Spaces
Total Parking SpacesRequired Minimum Number of Accessible Spaces
1 to 25              1
26 to 50            2
51 to 75            3
76 to 100           4
101 to 150          5
151 to 200          6
201 to 300          7
301 to 400          8
401 to 500          9
501 to 1,000        2 percent of the total
1,001 and over      20 plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-172.png]
 
Source: ADA.gov
   2.   Access aisles adjacent to accessible spaces shall be 60 inches wide at a
minimum.
      A.   One in every eight accessible spaces, but not less than one, shall
be served by an access aisle 96 inches wide minimum and shall be designated
“van accessible” as required by Section 7.05.04 of this Ordinance. The vertical
clearance at such spaces shall comply with
7.05 (E) of this Ordinance. All such spaces may be grouped on one level of a
parking structure.
      B.   Parking access aisles shall be part of an accessible route to the
building or facility entrance. Two accessible parking spaces may share a common
access aisle.
      C.   Parked vehicle overhangs shall not reduce the clear width of an accessible
route.
      D.   Parking spaces and access aisles shall be level with slopes not
exceeding two percent in all directions.
      E.   If passenger-loading zones are provided, then at least one passenger
loading zone shall comply with
7.05 (F) of this Ordinance.
      F.   At facilities providing medical care and other services for persons
with mobility impairments, parking spaces complying with
7.05 of this Ordinance shall be provided in accordance with
7.05 (A) of this Ordinance; except as follows:
         1)   Outpatient units and facilities: 10 percent of the total number
of parking spaces provided serving each such outpatient unit or facility;
         2)   Units and facilities that specialize in treatment or services for
persons with mobility impairments: 20 percent of the total number of parking
spaces provided serving each such unit or facility.
      G.   Valet parking: valet parking facilities shall provide a passenger
loading zone complying with
7.05 (F)
of this Ordinance located on an accessible route to the entrance of the facility. Sections 
7.05 (A),
7.05 (B)(1), and 
7.05 (B) (3) of this Ordinance do not apply to valet parking.
   3.   Location of accessible parking spaces serving a particular building
shall be located on the shortest accessible route of travel from adjacent
parking to an accessible entrance.
      A.   In parking facilities that do not serve a particular building, accessible parking shall be located on
the shortest accessible route of travel to an accessible pedestrian entrance of
the parking facility.
      B.   In buildings with multiple accessible entrances with adjacent
parking, accessible parking spaces shall be dispersed and located closest to
the accessible entrances.
   4.   Signage of accessible parking spaces shall be designated as reserved by
a sign showing the symbol of accessibility. Spaces complying with Section
7.05 (2)(A) shall have an additional sign stating the stall is “Van Accessible”
mounted below the symbol of accessibility. Such signs shall be located so they
cannot be obscured by a vehicle parked in the space.
   5.   Minimum vertical clearance of 114 inches at accessible passenger
loading zones and along at least one vehicle access route to such areas from
site entrance(s) and exit(s). At parking spaces complying with
7.05 (2)(A), provide minimum vertical clearance of 98 inches at the parking
space and along at least one vehicle access route to such spaces from site
entrance(s) and exit(s).
   6.   Passenger Loading Zones shall provide an access aisle at least 60
inches wide and 240 inches long adjacent and parallel to the vehicle pull-up
space. If there are curbs between the access aisle and the vehicle pull-up
space, then a curb ramp complying with accessibility standards shall be
provided. Vehicle standing spaces and access aisles shall be level with surface
slopes not exceeding two percent in all directions.
Section 7.06  Off-Street Parking Design Criteria
   1.   Standard parking stall dimensions shall not be less than 10 feet by 18
feet, plus the necessary space for maneuvering into and out of the space. Where
the end of the parking space abuts a curbed area at least five feet in width
(with landscaping or sidewalk), an overhang may be permitted which would reduce
the length of the parking space by two feet. Such an overhang shall be measured
from the face of the curb. For standard parking lots, minimum dimensions shall
be as follows:
Parking Configuration
                      90-degree 60-degree 45-degree
Parking Configuration
                             90-degree 60-degree 45-degree
Aisle Width (A)
One-way traffic              -----     18 feet   14 feet
Two-way traffic              24 feet   20 feet   20 feet
End Parking Bay Width (B)
Without overhang             18 feet   20 feet   19 feet
With overhang                16 feet   18 feet   17 feet
Center Parking Bay Width (18 feet   18 feet   16 feet
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-174.png]
 
   2.   The minimum dimensions for a parallel parking space shall be nine feet by 23
feet.
   3.   Minimum parking dimensions for other configurations or for parking lots
with compact car spaces shall be determined by the Planning Commission and City
Council upon recommendation of the City Engineer.
   4.   Parking facilities shall be designed to provide visibility of and
between pedestrians and vehicles when circulating within or entering or leaving
the facility; and shall not create blind, hidden, or hazardous areas.
   5.   Circulation patterns shall be designed in accord with accepted
standards of traffic engineering and safety.
   6.   No signs shall be permitted within the required parking areas except
those necessary for the orderly parking thereon.
   7.   The maximum number of driveways shall be one per forty feet of lot
frontage.
   8.   The minimum distance between driveways shall be 12 feet except in Zones R-
1 and R-2.
   9.   All parking facilities shall be maintained to assure the continued
usefulness and compatibility of the facility. Acceptable maintenance includes
keeping the facility free of refuse, debris, and litter; maintaining parking
surfaces in sound condition; and providing proper care of landscaped areas.
Article 8: Sign Regulations
Section 8.01  Compliance with Sign Regulations
   All signs constructed, erected, modified or moved after the effective date
of this Ordinance shall comply with the regulations herein, unless expressly
exempted.
Section 8.02  Sign Definitions
The following are the definitions relating to signs within the Kimball zoning
jurisdiction.
ADVERTISING SIGN  shall mean a sign which directs attention to any product,
activity, or service; provided, however, that such sign shall not be related or
make reference to the primary use, business activity, or service conducted on
the premises.
ANIMATED SIGN  shall mean any sign using movement or change of lighting to
depict action or create a special effect or scene.
ANNOUNCEMENT SIGN  shall mean a small sign, not over six square feet in area,
except an announcement sign or bulletin board not over 18 square feet in area,
set back at least 20 feet from any highway, street, road, or roadway easement
may be erected in connection with any of the permitted principal uses of a
nonresidential nature.
ARCHITECTURAL CANOPY SIGN  shall mean an enclosed, illuminated or non-
illuminated structure attached to the wall of a building with the face of the
sign approximately parallel to the wall and with the sign's area integrated
into its surface.
SIGN AREA  shall mean the entire area including the background of a sign on
which copy can be placed but not including the minimal supporting framework or
bracing. The area of individually painted letter signs, individual letter signs
or directly or indirectly illuminated individual letter signs, shall be
calculated on the basis of the smallest geometric figure enclosing the entire
copy area of the sign. Any such calculation shall include the areas between the
letters and lines, as well as the areas of any devices, illuminated or non-
illuminated.
AWNING OR CANOPY SIGN  shall mean any sign or a part of or attached to an
awning, canopy, or other fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a
door, entrance, window, or outdoor service area. A marquee is not a canopy.
BANNER SIGN  shall mean any sign of
lightweight fabric or similar material permanently mounted to a pole or
building by a permanent frame at one or more edges. National flags, state or municipal flags, or official flag
of any institution or business shall not be considered banners.
BILLBOARD SIGN  shall mean a sign
identifying or communicating a commercial or noncommercial message related to
an activity conducted, a service rendered, or a commodity sold at a location
other than where the sign is located.
BUILDING SIGN  shall mean any sign supported by, painted on or otherwise
attached to any building or structure.
BUILDING MARKER SIGN  shall mean any sign indicating the name of a building and
date and incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into
a masonry surface or made of bronze or other permanent material.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN  shall mean a sign or portion thereof with characters,
letters, or illustrations capable of being changed or rearranged without
altering the face or the surface of the sign. A sign on which the message
changes more than eight times per day shall be considered an animated sign and
not a changeable copy sign for purposes of this ordinance. A sign on which the
only copy changes is an electronic or mechanical indication of time or
temperature shall be considered a “time and temperature” portion of a sign and
not a changeable copy sign for purposes of this ordinance.
CLOSED SIGN  shall mean a sign in which more than 50 percent of the entire area
is solid or tightly closed or covered.
COMMERCIAL MESSAGE SIGN  shall mean any sign wording, logo, or other
representation, directly or indirectly, naming, advertising, or calls attention
to a business, product, service, or other commercial activity.
COMMUNITY OR CIVIC SIGN  shall mean a sign containing business logos and/
or logos of civic organizations. The sign is intended to provide space for
several businesses and/or organizations on one sign, and all advertising is
similar in size. The primary intent of the community or civic sign is for
informational purposes and to communicate information to the motoring public as
to businesses and organizations active in the community. Community or civic
signs are owned and operated by the local chamber of commerce or other civic
organization or non-profit entity.
DESTINATION SIGN  shall mean a sign used to inform and direct the public to
important public places and buildings, landmarks, and historical sites in the
most simple, direct, and concise manner possible.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD SIGN  shall mean a sign using changing lights to form
a sign message or messages wherein the sequence of messages and the rate of
change is electronically programmed and can be modified by electronic
processes.
FLASHING SIGN  shall mean a sign, which, by method or manner of illumination,
flashes on or off, winks, or blinks with varying light intensity, shows motion,
or creates the illusion of being on or off.
FREESTANDING SIGN  shall mean any sign supported by uprights or braces placed
on or in the ground, which is used principally for advertising or
identification purposes and is not supported by any building.
GROUND SIGN  shall mean a sign mounted directly to the ground with a maximum
height not to exceed six feet.
ILLUMINATED SIGN 
shall mean a sign illuminated in any manner by an artificial light source.
INCIDENTAL SIGN  shall mean a sign, generally informational, whose purpose is
secondary to the use of the zone lot on which it is located, such as “no
parking,” “entrance,” “loading only,” “telephone,” and other similar
directives. No sign with a commercial message legible from a position off the
zone lot on which the sign is located shall be considered incidental.
MARQUEE SIGN  shall mean any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a
building or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building,
generally designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
NAMEPLATE SIGN  shall mean a sign not exceeding two square feet for each
dwelling.
NON-CONFORMING SIGN 
shall mean any sign not conforming to the requirements of this ordinance.
OBSOLETE SIGN  shall mean a sign advertising a business no longer in existence
or a product no longer offered for sale and has advertised such business or
product for a period of six months after the termination of the existence of
such business or the termination of sale of the product advertised.
OFF-PREMISES SIGN  shall mean a sign including the supporting sign structure
which directs the attention of the general public to a business, service, or
activity not usually conducted, or a product not offered or sold, upon the
premises where such sign is located.
ON-PREMISE SIGN  shall mean a sign, display, or device-advertising activities
conducted on the property on which such sign is located.
OPEN SIGN  shall mean a sign attached to or hung from a marquee, canopy, or
other covered structure, projecting from and supported by the building and
extending beyond the building wall, building line, or street lot line.
PENNANT SIGN  shall mean any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material,
whether or not containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire,
or string, usually in series, designed to move in the wind.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-176.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-178.png]
POLE SIGN  shall mean a sign mounted on a freestanding pole or other support so
the bottom edge of the sign face is six feet or more above grade.
PORTABLE SIGN  shall mean a sign, usually of a temporary nature, not securely
anchored to the ground or to a building or structure and which obtains some or
all of its structural stability with respect to wind or other normally applied
forces by means of its geometry or character. Examples are: menu and sandwich
board signs, balloons used as signs, umbrellas used for advertising, and signs
attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-
way, unless said vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day operations of the
business.
PROJECTING SIGN  shall mean a projecting sign attached to a building in such a
manner the leading edge extends more than eight inches beyond the surface of
such building or wall.
ROOF SIGN  shall mean a sign identifying the name of a business, enterprise, or
the product sold on the premises and erected on and over
the roof of a building and extending vertically above the highest portion of
the roof.
ROOF (INTEGRAL) SIGN  shall mean any sign erected or constructed as an integral
or essentially integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, so no
part of the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof and
no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a space of more
than six inches.
SIGN SETBACK  shall mean the horizontal distance from the property line to the
nearest projection of the existing or proposed sign.
SUBDIVISION SIGN  identification shall mean a sign erected on a subdivision
identification lot that identifies the platted subdivision where the sign is
located.
SIGN SURFACE  shall mean the entire area of a sign.
SUSPENDED SIGN  shall mean a sign suspended from the underside of a horizontal
plane surface and is supported by such surface.
TEMPORARY SIGN 
shall mean a sign constructed of cloth, fabric, or other material with or without a
structural frame intended for a limited period of display, including displays
for holidays or public demonstrations. Temporary signs shall include portable
signs as defined in this section.
WALL SIGN  shall mean any sign attached parallel to, but within eight inches
of, a wall, painted on the wall surface of, or erected and confined within the
limits of an outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by
such wall or building, and which displays only one sign surface.
WINDOW SIGN  shall mean any sign, pictures, symbol, or combination thereof,
designed to communicate information about an activity, business, commodity,
event, sale, or service, that is placed inside a window or upon the window
panes or glass and is visible from the exterior of the window.
Section 8.03  Sign Area Computation
8.03.01  Computation of Area of Individual Signs
   The area of a sign face shall be computed by means of the smallest square,
circle, rectangle, triangle, or combination thereof that will encompass the
extreme limits of the writing, representation, emblem, or other display,
together with any material or color forming an integral part of the background
of the display or used to differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure
against which it is placed, but not including any supporting framework,
bracing, or decorative fence or wall when such fence or wall otherwise meets
zoning regulations and is clearly identical to the display itself.
8.03.02  Computation of Height
   The height of a sign shall be computed as the distance from the base of the
sign at normal grade to the top of the highest attached component of the
sign. In cases in which the normal grade cannot reasonably be determined, sign
height shall be computed on the assumption that the elevation of the normal
grade at the base of the sign is equal to the elevation of the nearest point of
the crown of a public street or the grade of the land at the principal entrance
to the principal structure on the lot, parcel, or tract of land, whichever is
lower. When a sign is placed on a berm, the height of the sign shall include
the height of the berm above grade level at the base of the berm.
Section 8.04 Sign Schedules
8.04.01   Signs shall be permitted in the various districts according to the following
schedule:
 TA-1 RE R-1 R-2 RM C-1 C-2 C-3 F-1 I-1 I-2
                         TA-1 RE R-1 R-2 RM C-1 C-2 C-3 F-1 I-1 I-2
Animated                 -    -  -   -   -  -   C   C   C   C   C
Announcement             +    +  +   +   +  +   +   +   +   +   +
Architectural Canopy     +    -  -   -   -  -   +   +   +   +   +
Banner                   +    -  -   -   -  -   +   +   +   +   +
Changeable Copy          +    -  -   -   -  -   +   +   +   +   +
Destination              +    +  +   +   +  +   +   +   +   +   +
Electronic Message Board+    -  -   -   -  -   +   +   +   +   +
Flashing                 -    -  -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -   -
Freestanding             T    T  T   T   T  T   T   T   T   T   T
Ground                   C    C  C   C   C  C   +   +   +   +   +
Illuminated              C    -  -   -   -  -   +   +   +   +   +
Incidental               +    +  +   +   +  +   +   +   +   +   +
Marquee                  -    -  -   -   -  -   +   +   +   +   +
Nameplate                C    +  +   +   +  +   +   +   +   +   +
Off-Premises (Billboard) -    -  -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -   -
On-Premises (Billboard)  +    -  -   -   -  -   +   +   +   +   +
Pennant                  +    -  -   -   -  -   +   +   +   +   +
Pole                     -    -  -   -   -  -   C   C   C   C   C
Projecting               +    -  -   -   -  +   +   +   +   +   +
Portable                 T    T  T   T   T  T   T   T   T   T   T
Roof                     +    -  -   -   -  -   +   +   +   +   +
Roof-Integrated          +    -  -   -   -  -   +   +   +   +   +
Subdivision              C    C  C   C   C  C   C   C   C   C   C
Suspended                +    -  -   -   -  -   +   +   +   +   +
Temporary                T    T  T   T   T  T   T   T   T   T   T
Wall                     +    -  -   -   -  -   +   +   +   +   +
Window                   +    -  -   -   -  -   +   +   +   +   +
   +: permitted      -: not permitted      C: Conditional Use      T: Temporary
8.04.02   Signs shall be permitted in the various districts at the listed
square footage and heights according to the following schedule:
 TA-1 RE R-1 R-2 RM C-1 C-2 C-3 F-1 I-1 I-2
                                TA-1 RE R-1 R-2 RM C-1 C-2  C-3  F-1  I-1  I-2
Animated
Max. Square Ft.                -    -  -   -   -  -   200  200  200  200  200
Max. Height Ft.                -    -  -   -   -  -   45   45   45   45   45
Max. Number                     -    -  -   -   -  -   1    1    1    1    1
Announcement
Max. Square Ft.                32   6  6   6   6  6   32   32   32   32   32
Max. Height Ft.                4    4  4   4   4  4   4    4    4    4    4
Max. Number                     1    1  1   1   1  1   1    1    1    1    1
Architectural Canopy
Max. Square Ft.                250  -  -   -   -  -   250  250  250  250  250
Max. Height Ft.                45   -  -   -   -  -   45   45   45   45   45
Max. Number                     17   -  -   -   -  -   17   17   17   17   17
Banner
Max. Square Ft.                32   -  -   -   -  -   32   32   32   32   32
Max. Height Ft.                NA   -  -   -   -  -   NA   NA   NA   NA   NA
Max. Number                     NA   -  -   -   -  -   NA   NA   NA   NA   NA
Changeable Copy
Max. Square Ft.                32   -  -   -   -  -   32   32   32   32   32
Max. Height Ft.                NA   -  -   -   -  -   NA   NA   NA   NA   NA
Max. Number                     NA   -  -   -   -  -   NA   NA   NA   NA   NA
Destination
Max. Square Ft.                16   16 16  16  16 16  16   16   16   16   16
Max. Height Ft.                8    8  8   8   8  8   8    8    8    8    8
Max. Number                     1    1  1   1   1  1   1    1    1    1    1
Electronic Message
Board                           100  -  -   -   -  -   100  100  100  100  100
Max. Square Ft.                20   -  -   -   -  -   20   20   20   20   20
Max. Height Ft. Max. Number 1    -  -   -   -  -   1    1    1    1    1
Flashing
Max. Square Ft.                -    -  -   -   -  -   -    -    -    -    -
Max. Height Ft.                -    -  -   -   -  -   -    -    -    -    -
Max. Number                     -    -  -   -   -  -   -    -    -    -    -
Freestanding
Max. Square Ft.                32   32 32  32  32 32  32   32   32   32   32
Max. Height Ft.                4    4  4   4   4  4   4    4    4    4    4
Max. Number                     1    1  1   1   1  1   1    1    1    1    1
Ground
Max. Square Ft.                50   -  -   -   -  -   322  322  503  503  503
Max. Height Ft.                10   -  -   -   -  -   10   10   10   10   10
Max. Number                     1    -  -   -   -  -   1    1    1    1    1
Illuminated
Max. Square Ft.                NA   NA NA  NA  NA NA  NA   NA   NA   NA   NA
Max. Height Ft. Max. Number
Incidental
Max. Square Ft.                25   -  -   -   -  -   25   25   25   25   25
                                each                   each each each each each
Max. Height Ft.                45   -  -   -   -  -   45   45   45   45   45
Max. Number                     1/   -  -   -   -  -   1/   1/   1/   1/   1/
                                40*                    406  406  406  406  406
Marquee
Max. Square Ft.                -    -  -   -   -  -   250  250  250  250  250
Max. Height Ft.                -    -  -   -   -  -   45   45   45   45   45
Max. Number                     -    -  -   -   -  -   1    1    1    1    1
Nameplate
Max. Square Ft.                2    2  2   2   2  2   2    2    2    2    2
Max. Height Ft.                -    -  -   -   -  -   -    -    -    -    -
Max. Number                     1    1  1   1   1  1   1    1    1    1    1
Off-Premises
Max. Square Ft.                -    -  -   -   -  -   -    -    -    -    -
Max. Height Ft.                -    -  -   -   -  -   -    -    -    -    -
Max. Number                     -    -  -   -   -  -   -    -    -    -    -
On-Premises
Max. Square Ft.                640  -  -   -   -  -   320  320  320  320  320
Max. Height Ft.                30   -  -   -   -  -   30   30   30   30   30
Max. Number                     1    -  -   -   -  -   1    1    1    1    1
Pennant
Max. Square Ft.                32   -  -   -   -  -   32   32   32   32   32
Max. Height Ft.                NA   -  -   -   -  -   NA   NA   NA   NA   NA
Max. Number                     NA   -  -   -   -  -   NA   NA   NA   NA   NA
Pole
Max. Square Ft.                -    -  -   -   -  -   1004 1004 2004 2004 2004
Max. Height Ft.                -    -  -   -   -  -   40   40   40   40   40
Max. Number                     -    -  -   -   -  -   1    1    1    1    1
Projecting
Max. Square Ft.                16   -  -   -   -  -   16   16   16   16   16
Max. Height Ft.                45   -  -   -   -  -   45   45   45   45   45
Max. Number                     1    -  -   -   -  -   1    1    1    1    1
 TA-1 RE R-1 R-2 RM C-1 C-2 C-3 F-1 I-1 I-2
                      TA-1  RE    R-1   R-2   RM    C-1  C-2   C-3   F-1   I-1   I-2
Portable              32    32    32    32    32    32   32    32    32    32    32
Max. Square Ft.    4     4     4     4     4     4    4     4     4     4     4
Max. Height Ft.      1     1     1     1     1     1    1     1     1     1     1
Max. Number
Roof                  250   -     -     -     -     -    250   250   250   250   250
Max. Square Ft.45  45    -     -     -     -     -    45    45    45    45    45
Max. Height Ft.       1     -     -     -     -     -    1     1     1     1     1
Max. Number
Roof-Integrated       250   -     -     -     -     -    250   250   250   250   250
Max. Square Ft.      45    -     -     -     -     -    45    45    45    45    45
Max. Height Ft.    1     -     -     -     -     -    1     1     1     1     1
Max. Number
Subdivision           500   500   500   500   500   500  500   500   500   500   500
Max. Square Ft.    35    35    35    35    35    35   35    35    35    35    35
Max. Height Ft.      1     1     1     1     1     1    1     1     1     1     1
Max. Number          5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
Max. Lot area s.f.
Suspended             20    -     -     -     -     -    20    20    20    20    20
Max. Square Ft.    10    -     -     -     -     -    10    10    10    10    10
Max. Height Ft.      1     -     -     -     -     -    1     1     1     1     1
Max. Number
Temporary
Max. Square Ft.    NA    NA    NA    NA    NA    NA   NA    NA    NA    NA    NA
Max. Height Ft.
Max. Number
Wall                  2001  -     -     -     -     -    2001  2001  2001  2001  2001
Max. Square Ft.    15    -     -     -     -     -    45    45    45    45    45
Max. Height Ft.      1     -     -     -     -     -    1     1     1     1     1
Max. Number
Window                2001  -     -     -     -     -    2001  2001  2001  2001  200 1
Max. Square Ft.    15    -     -     -     -     -    15    15    15    15    15
Max. Height Ft.      1     -     -     -     -     -    1     1     1     1     1
Max. Number
1.   Wall/
Window signs shall not exceed 10 percent of the total wall area, or the number indicated whichever is
greater.
2.   Ground signs may be increased from 32 square feet in area to 50
square feet in area when all uses/storefronts within a development are included
on one sign as opposed to each having an individual ground sign for every use/
storefront.
3.   Ground signs may be increased from 50 square feet in area to 75
square feet in area when all uses/storefronts within a development are included
on one sign as opposed to each having an individual ground sign for every use/
storefront.
4.   Pole signs may be increased from 100 square feet in area to 150 square
feet in area when all uses/storefronts within a development are included on one
sign as opposed to each having an individual pole sign for every use/
storefront.
5.   Pole signs may be increased from 200 square feet in area to 300 square
feet in area when all uses/storefronts within a development are included on one
sign as opposed to each having an individual pole sign for every use/
storefront.
6.   One Incidental sign per 40 lineal feet of storefront
7.   One Canopy per window –
canopy shall meet all minimum height requirements for accessibility. NA = Not
Applicable – Refer to specific structural sign types
8.04.03   A building or use having frontage on a second street may install a sign on the second street side no
greater in size than 20 percent of the total allowed on one facade.
Section 8.05  Signs, Special Conditions
   1.   Billboard Signs.  Billboards, signboards, and other similar advertising
signs shall be subject to the same height and location requirements as other
structures in the district and shall also be subject to the following
conditions and restrictions.
      A.   No billboard, signboard, or similar advertising signs shall be
located at intersections so as to obstruct vision, hearing, or interfere with
pedestrian or vehicular safety.
      B.   No billboard, signboard, or similar advertising signs shall be located within 50 feet of any lot in a
residential district.
      C.   No billboard, signboard, or similar advertising signs shall be so
constructed or located where it will unreasonably interfere with the use and
enjoyment of adjoining property.
   2.   Stand-alone ATM’s may have the following:
      A.   One wall sign on each exterior wall provided each wall sign does not
exceed 10 percent of the applicable exterior wall and the total shall not
exceed 40 square feet in size.
      B.   Where a canopy is integrated into the ATM, a canopy sign may be
placed on each face of the ATM, provided the overall height of the canopy and
sign do not exceed 24 inches. In addition, the overall size of all canopy signs
shall not exceed 40 square feet.
      C.   Directional signage shall be contained on the ATM, painted within a
drive lane or in any curbing defining a drive lane.
      D.   All signs are subject to the required permitting process of these
Regulations.
      E.   Said signage may be incorporated with lighting plan and backlit in
order to provide for greater security on the premises.
   3.   Coffee Kiosks and other Kiosks may have the following:
      A.   One wall sign on each exterior wall not used for drive-up service,
provided each wall sign does not exceed 10 percent of the applicable exterior
wall and the total shall not exceed 40 square feet in size.
      B.   Where a canopy is integrated into the Coffee Kiosks/Kiosks, a canopy
sign may be placed on each face of the Coffee Kiosk/Kiosks, provided the
overall height of the canopy and sign do not exceed 24 inches. In addition, the
overall size of all canopy signs shall not exceed 40 square feet.
      C.   Directional signage shall be contained on the Coffee Kiosk/Kiosk,
painted within a drive lane or in any curbing defining a drive lane
      D.   Window signs limited to menu boards and daily specials shall not require a sign
permit.
      E.   All signs are subject to the required permitting process of these Regulations, unless otherwise
noted.
   4.   Signs hung from canopies and awnings shall maintain 80 inches of clear
space, as measured from the bottom edge of the sign to the grade below.
   5.   Temporary Signs
   Temporary signs for which a permit has been issued shall be issued only for
signs meeting the following criteria:
      A.   No temporary sign shall be of such size, message, or character so to
harm the public, health, safety or general welfare.
      B.   Temporary signs may be for a continual period; however, in no event
shall a Temporary sign be up for more than five days prior to an event and
shall be removed within five days after the event.
      C.   Temporary signs may be allowed in a manner where they are put in
place during certain periods of time (set up in the morning and taken down in
the evening) without a specific end date to the permit and these signs may
advertise an off-premises business and/or organization.
   6.   Emergency Signs (Permitted)
   Emergency warning signs erected by a governmental agency, public utility
company, or a contractor doing authorized or permitted work within the public
right-of-way.
   7.   Other Signs Forfeited
   Any sign installed or placed on public property, except in conformance with
the requirements of this section, shall be forfeited to the public and subject
to confiscation. In addition, to other remedies hereunder, the City shall have
the right to recover from the owner or person placing such a sign the full
costs of removal and disposal of such sign.
   8.   Signs Exempt from Regulation Under this Ordinance
   The following signs shall be exempt from regulation under this ordinance,
except no sign in this provision shall create an obstruction to vision, as per
Section 4.08 of this Ordinance and/or a collision hazard to the public:
      ·   Any public notice or warning required by a valid and applicable federal, state, or local law,
regulation or ordinance;
      ·   Any religious symbol;
      ·   Construction signs when equal to six square feet or less;
      ·   Any sign identifying a public facility or public/civic event;
      ·   Any sign inside a building, not attached to a window or door, that is
not legible from a distance of more than three feet beyond the lot line of the
zone lot or parcel on which such sign is located
      ·   Holiday lights and decorations with no commercial message;
      ·   Traffic control signs on private property, such as Stop, Yield, and
similar signs, the face of which meets the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices standards and which contain no commercial message of any sort; and
      ·   A political sign exhibited in a residential zone in conjunction with the
election of political candidates. Such signs may not exceed six square feet in
any zone. Only four political signs shall be allowed per zone lot at any one
time. All such political signs shall not be erected more than 30 days before
the election and shall be removed no later than 10 days after the election.
Political signs shall not create an obstruction within the R.O.W.
   9.   Signs Prohibited Under These Regulations
   All signs not expressly permitted in these regulations or exempt from
regulation hereunder in accordance with the previous section are prohibited in
the City. Such signs include, but are not limited to:
      A.   Beacons;
      B.   Audible Signs
Article 9: Supplemental Regulations
Section 9.01  Home Occupations and Home-Based Businesses in Residential
Districts
9.01.01   Intent:
   A home occupation or home-based business shall be permitted when said
occupation or business is conducted on residentially used and/or zoned property
and is considered customary, traditional, and incidental to the primary use of
the premises as a residence and shall not be construed as a business.
9.01.02   Permitted Home Occupations:
   1.   Workrooms for dressmaking, millinery, sewing, weaving, tailoring,
ironing, washing, jewelry making, custom home furnishings work, carpentry work,
and furniture repair.
   2.   Offices for professionals such as, but not limited to, attorneys,
architects, engineers, planners, real estate agents, insurance, notary public,
manufacturer’s representative, clergy, journalists, painters, photographers,
dentists, doctors, draftspersons, insurance agents, accountants, editors,
publishers, psychologists, contract management, graphic design, construction
contractors, landscape design, surveyors, cleaning services, salespersons, and
travel agents.
   3.   Child Nurseries or Child Care
   4.   Personal services, including Barber and Beauty Shops (limited to one
chair), manicure and pedicure shops, pet grooming, catering, and chauffeuring
services.
   5.   Instructional services, including music, dance, art and craft classes and
tutoring.
   6.   Repair services, including watch and clock, small appliances, computers, electronic devices,
lawnmowers including engines (limited to an attached garage area).
   7.   Distribution and sales of products such as cosmetics, home/health care
products, mail order, and other similar uses.
   8.   Offices for services provided outside the home such as lawn care, snow
removal, and other similar uses.
9.01.03   Prohibited Home Occupations:
   1.   Medical and dental clinics, hospitals.
   2.   Restaurants, clubs, drinking establishments.
   3.   Motor vehicle / Small Engine Repair.
   4.   Adult Entertainment Uses
   5.   Kennels, stables, veterinarian clinics/hospitals
9.01.04   Performance Standards for Home Occupations:
   1.   The primary use of the structure or dwelling unit shall remain
residential, and the operator of the home occupation shall remain a resident in
the dwelling unit.
   2.   The operator conducting the home occupation shall be the sole
entrepreneur, and the operator shall not employ any other person other than a
member of the immediate family residing on the premises.
   3.   No structural additions, enlargements, or exterior alterations changing
the residential appearance to a business appearance shall be permitted.
   4.   No more than 25 percent of the floor area of any one story
of the dwelling unit shall be devoted to such home occupation.
   5.   Such home occupations shall be conducted entirely within the primary
building or dwelling unit used as a residence.
   6.   Additional and/or separate entrance(s) that do not match the
residential structural design shall not be constructed for the purpose of
conducting the home occupation or home-based business.
   7.   Additional off-street parking or loading facilities, including
additional driveway construction, other than the requirements for the permitted
residence, shall be permitted.
   8.   The display of goods and/or external evidence of the home occupation
shall not be permitted, except for one non-animated, non-illuminated, non-
flashing announcement plate, indicating not more than the name and address of
the resident. Said plate shall be attached flat against the wall of the
residence and shall not exceed two sq. ft. in total surface area.
   9.   No on-premise retail sales are permitted from the site other than
incidental sales related to services provided.
   10.   No offensive noise, vibration, smoke, odor, heat, or glare shall be
noticeable at or beyond the property line.
   11.   No electrical or mechanical equipment shall interfere with local radio communications and television
reception, or cause fluctuation in line voltage off the premises.
   12.   All businesses related to Child Care Homes and Child Care Centers
shall be in accordance with Nebraska State Statutes.
   13.   No permit for a Home Occupation or Home-based Business shall supersede
any State or Federal requirements for permits and licenses.
9.01.05   Permitted Home Based Businesses:
   1.   Workrooms for custom home furnishings work, carpentry work, and furniture
repair.
   2.   Offices for professionals such as, but not limited to, attorneys,
architects, engineers, planners, real estate agents, insurance, notary public,
manufacturer’s representative, clergy, journalists, painters, photographers,
draftspersons, insurance agents, accountants, editors, publishers,
psychologists, contract management, graphic design, construction contractors,
landscape design, surveyors, cleaning services, salespersons, and travel
agents.
   3.   Personal services, including Barber and Beauty Shops (limited to two
chairs), manicure and pedicure shops, pet grooming, catering, and chauffeuring
services.
   4.   Repair services, including watch and clock, small appliances,
computers, electronic devices, lawnmowers including engines (limited to an
attached garage areas).
   5.   Distribution and sales of products such as cosmetics, home/health care
products, mail order, and other similar uses.
   6.   Offices for services provided outside the home such as lawn care, snow
removal, and other similar uses.
   7.   Child Nurseries or Child Care
9.01.06   Prohibited Home Based Businesses:
   1.   Medical and dental clinics, hospitals.
   2.   Restaurants, clubs, drinking establishments.
   3.   Motor vehicle
   4.   Adult Entertainment Uses
   5.   Kennels, stables, veterinarian clinics/hospitals.
9.01.07   Performance Standards for Home Based Businesses:
   1.   The primary use of the structure or dwelling unit shall remain
residential, and the operator of the home-based business shall remain a
resident in the dwelling unit.
   2.   The operator conducting the home-based business shall be the sole
entrepreneur. However, the operator may employ immediate family members
residing on the premises, as well as an additional two unrelated individuals
for purposes of conducting business.
   3.   Structural additions, enlargements, or exterior alterations may be
completed in order to provide space for the home-based business. Any
alterations and additions are limited to a one-time expansion and shall be
limited to 25 percent of the floor area of the main floor at the time of
application. All alterations and additions shall meet all building and zoning
criteria of Kimball.
   4.   No more than 25 percent of the floor area of any one story
of the dwelling unit shall be devoted to such home based business.
   5.   Such home based business shall be conducted entirely within the primary
building or dwelling unit used as a residence. Home based businesses may also
be located with an existing Accessory Building.
   6.   Home based businesses conducted within an Accessory Building shall be
confined to the structure of the said Accessory Building. In addition, the
applicant must prove that the Accessory Building meets all Life Safety Codes
including electrical compliance for a commercial business.
   7.   All alterations and additions shall be completed in a manner that
matches the existing structure and shall have a residential appearance to the
exterior. All separate entrance(s) shall be discrete and match the residential
design.
   8.   Additional off-street parking or loading facilities, beyond the parking
provided for the residence, shall be provided and shall meet the following
standards:
      A.   Two additional spaces for the unrelated employees.
      B.   Two additional spaces to be used for client/visitor parking.
      C.   The additional parking required in items (A) and (B) shall not be
provided in any required Front, Side or Rear Yard setback.
      D.   All additional parking and loading spaces shall be screened using
landscaping materials and opaque privacy fencing not more than six feet in
height.
      E.   Applicant shall not relocate parking for the residence into any
Front, Side or Rear Yard Setback in order to provide the additional parking.
      F.   All new off-
street parking is encouraged to be toward the rear yard portion of the property
and screened from view from the street.
   9.   The display of goods and/or external evidence of the home-
based business shall not be permitted, except for one non-animated, non-
illuminated, non-flashing announcement plate, indicating not more than the name
and address of the resident. Said plate shall be attached flat against the wall
of the residence and shall not exceed two sq. ft. in total surface area.
   10.   No retail sales are permitted from the site other than incidental sales related to services
provided.
   11.   No offensive noise, vibration, smoke, odor, heat, or glare shall be noticeable at or beyond the
property line.
   12.   No electrical or mechanical equipment shall interfere with local radio communications and television
reception, or cause fluctuation in line voltage off the premises.
   13.   All businesses related to Child Care Homes and Child Care Centers
shall be in accordance with Nebraska State Statutes.
9.01.08   Revocation:
   1.   Conditions. A home occupation and home-based business permit granted in
accordance with the provisions of this section may be terminated if the Zoning
Administrator makes any of the following findings:
      A.   That any condition of the home occupation or home-
based business permit has been violated.
      B.   That the use has become detrimental to the public health or safety
or is deemed to constitute a nuisance.
      C.   That the permit was obtained by misrepresentation or fraud.
      D.   That the use for which the permit was granted has ceased or has been suspended for six
consecutive months or more; and
      E.   That the condition of the premises, or the district of which it is a
part, has changed so that the use may no longer be justified under the purpose
and intent of this section.
   2.   Appeal. Within five working days of a revocation, an appeal may be made
to the Kimball Board of Adjustment. The Zoning Administrator within ten working
days of the receipt of an appeal of his or her revocation shall report his or
her findings of fact and decision to the Kimball Board of Adjustment. The
Kimball Board of Adjustment shall determine the facts and may revoke, modify or
allow to remain unchanged the home occupation or home-based business permit in
accordance with the Board’s final determination.
   3.   Nontransferable. A home occupation or home-based business permit
granted in accordance with the provisions of this article shall not be
transferred, assigned, nor used by any person other than the permittee, nor
shall such permit authorize such home occupation at any location other than the
one for which the permit is granted.
Section 9.02 Home Occupations and Home-Based Businesses within the TA-
1 Districts
9.02.01   Intent:
   A home occupation or home-based business shall be permitted when said
occupation or business is conducted on agriculturally used and/or zoned
property and is considered customary, traditional, and incidental to the
primary use of the premises as a residence and shall not be construed as a
business.
9.02.02   Permitted Home Occupations:
   1.   Workrooms for dressmaking, millinery, sewing, weaving, tailoring,
ironing, washing, jewelry making, custom home furnishings work, carpentry work,
and furniture repair.
   2.   Offices for professionals such as, but not limited to, attorneys,
architects, engineers, planners, real estate agents, insurance, notary public,
manufacturer’s representative, clergy, journalists, painters, photographers,
dentists, doctors, draftspersons, insurance agents, accountants, editors,
publishers, psychologists, contract management, graphic design, construction
contractor services, landscape design, surveyors, cleaning services,
salespersons, and travel agents.
   3.   Child Nurseries or Child Care.
   4.   Personal services, including Barber and Beauty Shops (limited to one
chair), manicure and pedicure shops, pet grooming, catering, and chauffeuring
services.
   5.   Instructional services, including music, dance, art and craft classes and
tutoring.
   6.   Repair services, including watch and clock, small appliances,
computers, electronic devices, lawnmowers including engines, and motor vehicles
(limited to no more than two at one time).
   7.   Offices and shops in association to one another, including motorized
and non-motorized racing vehicles, construction services with equipment storage
and maintenance, monument sales and engraving, freight hauling with equipment
storage and maintenance (not including warehousing of freight), aerial spraying
with equipment storage and maintenance, welding, and excavating services with
equipment storage and maintenance.
   8.   Warehousing and storage of products associated with agri-businesses,
including seed sales, fertilizer sales (as allowed by state and federal
regulations), and herbicide and pesticide sales (as allowed by state and
federal regulations).
   9.   Distribution and sales of products such as cosmetics, home/health care
products, mail order, and other similar uses.
   10.   Offices for services provided outside the home such as lawn care, snow
removal, and other similar uses.
9.02.03   Prohibited Home Occupations:
   1.   Medical clinics and hospitals.
   2.   Restaurants, clubs, drinking establishments.
   3.   Undertaking and funeral parlors.
   4.   Adult Entertainment Uses
9.02.04   Performance Standards for Home Occupations:
   1.   The primary use of the structure or dwelling unit shall remain
residential, and the operator of the home occupation shall remain a resident in
the dwelling unit.
   2.   The operator conducting the home occupation shall be the sole
entrepreneur, and the operator shall not employ any other person other than a
member of the immediate family residing on the premises.
   3.   No structural additions, enlargements, or exterior alterations changing
the residential appearance to a business appearance shall be permitted.
   4.   No more than 25 percent of the floor area of any one story
of the dwelling unit shall be devoted to such home occupation when contained
within the principal structure.
   5.   Home occupations may be located within an accessory structure including
machine sheds, barns, and garages. Said accessory structure shall be required
to meet all pertinent State codes for Life Safety including electrical wiring
depending upon the nature of the business.
   6.   When a home occupation is located in an accessory structure there shall
not be any additional storage allowed in the open. All storage shall be
contained within appropriate facilities and out of site.
   7.   Home occupations focused on repairs and maintenance of vehicles and
motors shall not be allowed to storage damaged, unlicensed, salvaged, vehicles
or parts on site and outside the structure where said home occupations are
taking place.
   8.   When storage of chemicals associated with agricultural businesses are
stored on site, the storage shall comply with all state and Federal regulations
and shall be kept in a place that is secured, dry and locked from general
access.
   9.   Additional and/or separate entrance(s) that do not match the
residential structural design shall not be constructed for the purpose of
conducting the home occupation or home-based business.
   10.   Additional off-street parking or loading facilities, including
additional driveway construction, other than the requirements for the permitted
residence, shall be permitted.
   11.   The display of goods and/or external evidence of the home occupation
shall not be permitted, except for one non-animated, non-illuminated, non-
flashing announcement plate, indicating not more than the name and address of
the resident. Said plate shall be attached flat against the wall of the
residence and shall not exceed two sq. ft. in total surface area.
   12.   No offensive noise, vibration, smoke, odor, heat, or glare shall be noticeable at or beyond the
property line.
   13.   No electrical or mechanical equipment shall interfere with local radio communications and television
reception, or cause fluctuation in line voltage off the premises.
   14.   All businesses related to Child Care Homes and Child Care Centers
shall be in accordance with Nebraska State Statutes.
   15.   No permit for a Home Occupation or Home-based Business shall supersede
any State or Federal requirements for permits and licenses.
9.02.05   Permitted Home Based Businesses:
   1.   Workrooms for dressmaking, millinery, sewing, weaving, tailoring,
ironing, washing, jewelry making, custom home furnishings work, carpentry work,
and furniture repair.
   2.   Offices for professionals such as, but not limited to, attorneys,
architects, engineers, planners, real estate agents, insurance, notary public,
manufacturer’s representative, clergy, journalists, painters, photographers,
dentists, doctors, draftspersons, insurance agents, accountants, editors,
publishers, psychologists, contract management, graphic design, construction
contractor services, landscape design, surveyors, cleaning services,
salespersons, and travel agents.
   3.   Child Nurseries or Child Care.
   4.   Personal services, including Barber and Beauty Shops (limited to one
chair), manicure and pedicure shops, pet grooming, catering, and chauffeuring
services.
   5.   Instructional services, including music, dance, art and craft classes and
tutoring.
   6.   Repair services, including watch and clock, small appliances,
computers, electronic devices, lawnmowers including engines, and motor vehicles
(limited to no more than two at one time).
   7.   Offices and shops in association to one another, including motorized
and non-motorized racing vehicles, construction services with equipment storage
and maintenance, monument sales and engraving, freight hauling with equipment
storage and maintenance (not including warehousing of freight), aerial spraying
with equipment storage and maintenance, welding, and excavating services with
equipment storage and maintenance.
   8.   Warehousing and storage of products associated with agri-businesses,
including seed sales, fertilizer sales (as allowed by state and federal
regulations), and herbicide and pesticide sales (as allowed by state and
federal regulations).
   9.   Distribution and sales of products such as cosmetics, home/health care
products, mail order, and other similar uses.
   10.   Offices for services provided outside the home such as lawn care, snow
removal, and other similar uses.
9.02.06   Prohibited home based businesses:
   1.   Medical clinics and hospitals.
   2.   Restaurants, clubs, drinking establishments.
   3.   Undertaking and funeral parlors.
   4.   Adult Entertainment Uses
9.02.07   Performance Standards for Home Based Businesses:
   A.   The primary use of the structure or dwelling unit shall remain
residential, and the operator of the home-based business shall remain a
resident in the dwelling unit.
   B.   The operator conducting the home-based business shall be the sole
entrepreneur. However, the operator may employ immediate family members
residing on the premises, as well as an additional two unrelated individuals
for purposes of conducting business.
   C.   Structural additions, enlargements, or exterior alterations may be
completed in order to provide space for the home-based business. Any
alterations and additions are limited to a one-time expansion and shall be
limited to 25 percent of the floor area of the main floor at the time of
application. All alterations and additions shall meet all building and zoning
criteria of Kimball.
   D.   No more than 25 percent of the floor area of any one story
of the dwelling unit shall be devoted to such home based business when
contained within the principal structure.
   E.   Home based businesses may be located within an accessory structure
including machine sheds,
barns, and garages. Said accessory structure shall be required to meet all pertinent state codes for
life safety including electrical wiring depending upon the nature of the
business.
   F.   When a home-based business is located in an accessory structure there
shall not be any additional storage allowed in the open. All storage shall be
contained within appropriate facilities and out of site.
   G.   Home based businesses focused on repairs and maintenance of vehicles
and motors shall not be allowed to storage damaged, unlicensed, salvaged,
vehicles or parts on site and outside the structure where said home based
business is taking place.
   H.   When storage of chemicals associated with agricultural businesses are
stored on site, the storage shall comply with all state and federal regulations
and shall be kept in a place that is secured, dry and locked from general
access.
   I.   All alterations and additions shall be completed in a manner that
matches the existing structure and shall have a residential appearance to the
exterior. All separate entrance(s) shall be discrete and match the residential
design.
   J.   Additional off-street parking or loading facilities, beyond the parking
provided for the residence, shall be provided and shall meet the following
standards:
      A.   Two additional spaces for the unrelated employees.
      B.   Two additional spaces to be used for client/visitor parking.
      C.   The additional parking required in items (A) and (B) shall not be
provided in any required Front, Side or Rear Yard setback.
      D.   All additional parking and loading spaces shall be screened using
landscaping materials and opaque privacy fencing not more than six feet in
height.
      E.   Applicant shall not relocate parking for the residence into any
Front, Side or Rear Yard Setback in order to provide the additional parking.
      F.   All new off-
street parking is encouraged to be toward the rear yard portion of the property
and screened from view from the street.
   K.   The display of goods and/or external evidence of the home-
based business shall not be permitted, except for one non-animated, non-
illuminated, non-flashing announcement plate, indicating not more than the name
and address of the resident. Said plate shall be attached flat against the wall
of the residence and shall not exceed two sq. ft. in total surface area.
   L.   No offensive noise, vibration, smoke, odor, heat, or glare shall be
noticeable at or beyond the property line.
   M.   No electrical or mechanical equipment shall interfere with local radio
communications and television reception, or cause fluctuation in line voltage
off the premises.
   N.   All businesses related to Child Care Homes and Child Care Centers shall
be in accordance with Nebraska State Statutes.
9.02.08   Revocation:
   1.   Conditions. A home occupation and home-based business permit granted in
accordance with the provisions of this section may be terminated if the Zoning
Administrator makes any of the following findings:
      A.   That any condition of the home occupation or home-
based business permit has been violated.
      B.   That the use has become detrimental to the public health or safety
or is deemed to constitute a nuisance.
      C.   That the permit was obtained by misrepresentation or fraud.
      D.   That the use for which the permit was granted has ceased or has been suspended for six
consecutive months or more; and
      E.   That the condition of the premises, or the district of which it is a
part, has changed so that the use may no longer be justified under the purpose
and intent of this section.
   3.   Appeal. Within five working days of a revocation, an appeal may be made
to the Kimball Board of Adjustment. The Zoning Administrator within ten working
days of the receipt of an appeal of his or her revocation actions, shall report
his or her findings of fact and decision to the Kimball Board of
Adjustment. The Kimball Board of Adjustment shall determine the facts and may
revoke, modify or allow to remain unchanged the home occupation or home-based
business permit in accordance with the Board’s final determination.
   4.   Nontransferable. A home occupation or home-based business
permit granted in accordance with the provisions of this article shall not be
transferred, assigned, nor used by any person other than the permittee, nor
shall such permit authorize such home occupation at any location other than the
one for which the permit is granted.
Section 9.03  Radio, Television and Wireless Communication Towers
9.03.01   Intent:
   Based upon the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 and the Spectrum Act of 2012 (the Act) grants
the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) exclusive jurisdiction over certain
aspects of telecommunication services. This section is intended to regulate
towers, telecommunications facilities and antennas in the City’s jurisdiction
in conformance with the Act without prohibiting or tending to prohibit any
person from providing wireless telecommunication service. Telecommunication
facilities, towers and antennas in the City’s jurisdiction, to protect
residential areas and land uses from potential adverse impact of installation
of towers and antennas through careful design, siting, and camouflaging, to
promote and encourage shared use/collocation of towers and other antenna
support structures rather than the construction of additional single use
towers, to avoid potential damage to property caused by towers,
telecommunications facilities and antennas by ensuring such structures are
soundly and carefully designed, constructed, modified, maintained, repaired and
removed when no longer used or are determined to be structurally unsound and to
ensure that towers and antennas are compatible with surrounding land uses.
9.03.02   Definitions:
All terms in this Section which are not specifically defined herein shall be
construed in accordance with the Communications Act of 1934, the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, the Spectrum Act of 2012 and the Rules and
Regulations of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). As used in this
Section, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Base Station shall mean a structure that supports or houses an antenna,
transceiver, or other associated equipment that constitutes part of a base
station at the time of the application is filed.
Broadcasting Tower shall mean a structure for the transmission or broadcast of
radio, television, radar, microwaves or other electromagnetic frequencies which
exceeds the maximum height permitted in the district in which it is located;
provided, however, that noncommercial towers not exceeding 50 feet in height
shall not be considered broadcast towers.
Collocation shall mean the mounting or installation of transmission equipment
on an eligible support structure for the purpose of transmitting and/or
receiving radio frequency signals for communications purposes.
Conforming Commercial Earth Station shall mean a satellite dish which
is two meters or less in diameter and is located in an area where commercial or
industrial uses are generally permitted under this ordinance.
Eligible Facilities Request  is defined as any request for modification of an
existing wireless tower or base station that involves (a) collocation of new
transmission equipment; (b) removal of transmission equipment; or (c)
replacement of transmission equipment.
In Writing  refers to the means in which an applicant for a telecommunications
tower is notified. The “in writing” clause has been defined to include the
minutes of the governing body’s proceedings including findings of fact.
Owner  shall mean any person with a fee simple title or a leasehold exceeding
ten years in duration to any tract of land within the zoning jurisdiction
of the County who desires to develop, construct, modify, or operate a tower
upon such tract of land.
Replacement  shall mean the removal and upgrade of transmission equipment and
not the structure on which it is located.
Specific and Absolute Timeframe this refers to the timeframe allowed for
processing a telecommunication application under Section 6409 (a) of the
Spectrum Act of 2012.
Stealth: Any telecommunications facility, tower, or antenna which is designed
to enhance compatibility with adjacent land uses, including, but not limited
to, architecturally screened roof-mounted antennas, antennas integrated into
architectural elements, and towers designed to look other than a tower, such as
light poles, power poles and trees.
Telecommunications Facilities shall mean any cables, wires, lines, waive
guides, antennas, or any other equipment or facilities associated with the
transmission or reception of communications which a person seeks to locate or
has installed upon or near a tower or antenna support structure. However,
telecommunications facilities shall not include: a. Any Conforming Commercial
Earth Station antenna two meters or less in diameter. b. Any earth station
antenna or satellite dish antenna of one meter or less in diameter.
Tower shall mean any structure built for the sole or primary purpose of
supporting any Commission-licensed or authorized antennas and their associated
facilities.
Tower owner shall mean any person with an ownership interest of any nature in a
proposed or existing tower.
Transmission Equipment: any equipment that facilitates transmission for any
Commission-licensed or authorized wireless communication service, including,
but not limited to, radio transceivers, antennas and other relevant equipment
associated with and necessary to their operation, including coaxial or fiber-
optic cable, and regular and backup power supply.
9.03.03   Tower Construction Standards:
Listed below are tower construction standards.
   1.   Towers shall be permitted conditional uses of land in only those zoning
districts where specifically listed and authorized in this ordinance.
   2.   No person shall develop, construct, modify or operate a tower upon any
tract of land within the zoning jurisdiction of the City prior to approval
of its application for a Conditional Use Permit by the City Council and
issuance of the permit by the City.
   3.   All towers, telecommunications facilities and antennas on which
construction has commenced within the zoning jurisdiction of the City after the
effective date of this ordinance shall conform to the Building Codes and all
other construction standards set forth by the City, County, federal, and state
law and applicable American National Standards Institute (ANSI). Upon
completion of construction of a tower and prior to the commencement of use, an
engineer’s certification that the tower is structurally sound and in
conformance with all of the aforementioned applicable regulatory standards
shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator.
9.03.04   Application to Develop a Tower:
   1.   Prior to commencement of development or construction of a tower, an
application shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for a Conditional
Use Permit and shall include the following:
      A.   Name, address, and telephone number of the owner and if applicable,
the lessee of the tract of land upon which the tower is to be located.
Applicants shall include the owner of the tract of land and all persons having
an ownership interest in the proposed tower. The application shall be executed
by all applicants.
      B.   The legal description and address of the tract of land on which the tower is to be
located.
      C.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all owners of other
towers or useable antenna support structures within a one-mile radius of the
proposed tower, including publicly and privately owned towers and structures.
      D.   An affidavit attesting to the fact that the applicant has made
diligent but unsuccessful efforts to obtain permission to install or collocate
the applicants’ telecommunications facilities on a tower or useable antenna
support or written technical evidence from an engineer that the applicants’
telecommunications facilities cannot be installed or collocated on another
tower or useable antenna support structure.
      E.   Written technical evidence from an engineer that the proposed tower
will meet
the established Building Code, and all other applicable construction standards
set forth by the City Council and federal and state and ANSI standards.
      F.   Color photo simulations showing the proposed location of the tower
with a photo-realistic representation of the proposed tower as it would appear
viewed from the nearest residentially used and / or zoned property and nearest
roadway, street or highway.
      G.   Descriptions and diagrams of the proposed tower, telecommunications
facilities and/or antenna, manufacturers literature, appurtenances such as
buildings, driveways, parking areas, and fences or other security enclosures
with significant detail to allow persons reviewing the application to
understand the kind and nature of the proposed facility.
      H.   The application, based upon the specific and absolute timeframe
established by the FCC, shall be processed and decided within 60 days of the
application becoming completed. However, the 60-day application processing
period may be extended only:
         1)   By mutual agreement between the City of Kimball and the applicant,
or
         2)   By Kimball’s determination that the application is incomplete.
            a.   If the City of Kimball deems the application to be incomplete,
the City shall notify the applicant of the incompleteness within 30 days of the
initial filing.
            b.   The City shall clearly and specifically delineate in writing the missing
information
            c.   The clock shall resume when the information is provided, but
may tolled again if the City of Kimball notifies the applicant within 10 days
that the application remains incomplete.
            d.   The City shall not request new information beyond what is already
required.
         3)   If the application is not acted upon within 60 days, the
application shall be deemed to be approved by the governing body.
9.03.05   Setbacks and Separation or Buffer Requirements
Listed below are setbacks and separation requirements for towers and exception to height restrictions
of towers.
   1.   All towers up to 50 feet in height shall be setback on all sides a
distance equal to the underlying setback requirement in the applicable zoning
district. Towers in excess of 50 feet in height shall be set back one
additional foot for each foot of tower height in excess of 50 feet. The height
of the tower shall be measured from the grade at the foot of the base pad to
the top of any telecommunications facilities or antennas attached thereto.
Setback requirements shall be measured from the base of the tower to the
property line of the tract of land on which it is located.
   2.   Freestanding and guyed towers shall be located so that the distance
from the base of the tower to any adjoining property line or the supporting
structure of a separate neighboring tower is a minimum of 100 percent of the
tower height. The Planning Commission and City Council may reduce the setback
with a conditional use permit if it determines that such reduction does not
constitute a hazard to safety or property on adjacent properties or rights-of-
way.
   3.   Towers exceeding 100 feet in height may not be located in any
residentially zoned district and must be separated from all residentially zoned
districts and occupied structures other than those utilized by the tower owner,
by a minimum of 200 feet or 100 percent of the height of the proposed tower,
whichever is greater.
   4.   Towers of 100 feet or less in height may be located in residentially
zoned districts provided said tower is separated from any residential
structure, school, church, and/or occupied structures other than those utilized
by the tower owner, by a minimum of one hundred percent (100%) of the height of
the tower.
   5.   Towers must meet the following minimum separation requirements from other
towers:
      A.   Monopole tower structures shall be separated from all other towers,
whether monopole, self-supporting lattice, or guyed by a minimum of 750 feet.
      B.   Self-supporting lattice or guyed towers shall be separated from all
other self-supporting lattice or guyed towers by a minimum of 1,500 feet.
   6.   Towers shall be held to all height requirements as prescribed in the Airport Hazard Area
District.
   7.   As part of its conditional use approval process, the Planning
Commission and City Council may, after public notice and hearing, permit the
tower to exceed the height restrictions otherwise allowable in the district.
9.03.06   Structural Standards for Towers Adopted:
   The Structural Standards for Steel Antenna Towers and Antenna Supporting
Structures, 1991 Edition (ANSI/EIA/TIA 222-E-1991) is hereby adopted, together
with any amendments thereto as may be made from time to time, except such
portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended by regulation and set
forth in this Article of the Zoning Ordinance.
9.03.07   Illumination and Security Fences:
   1.   Towers shall not be artificially lighted except as required by the FAA.
Any tower subject to this Section that is required to be lit under
FAA requirements and using a strobe light shall be equipped with dual mode
lighting. In no case shall said tower be allowed to operate a strobe lighting
system after sunset and before dawn.
   2.   All self-supporting lattice or guyed towers shall be enclosed within a
security fence or other structure designed to preclude unauthorized access.
Monopole towers shall be designed and constructed in a manner which will
preclude to the extent practical, unauthorized climbing of said structure.
9.03.08   Exterior Finish:
   Towers not requiring FAA painting or marking shall have an exterior finish which enhances compatibility
with adjacent land uses, subject to review and approval by the Planning
Commission and City Council as part of the application approval process. All
towers that must be approved as a conditional use shall be stealth design
unless stealth features are impractical, or the cost of such features
represents an undue burden on the applicant.
9.03.09   Landscaping:
   All tracts of land on which towers, antenna support structures, telecommunications facilities and/
or antennas are located shall be subject to the landscaping requirements of the
City.
9.03.10   Prohibitions
   According to the FCC, “[A] state or local government may not deny, and shall
approve, any eligible facilities request for a modification of an existing
wireless tower or base station that does not substantially change the physical
dimensions of such tower or base station.”
9.03.11   Substantial Change
   The City of Kimball may only require an amended conditional use permit for
changes/modifications on a telecommunication tower/system that are defined by
the FCC as substantial.
   1.   Substantial Change  shall mean any of the following:
      A.   Towers outside the public right-of-way, a “substantial change”
         •   increases the height of the tower by more than 10%, or by the
height of one additional antenna array with separation from the nearest
existing antenna not to exceed 20 feet, whichever is greater, or
         •   Protrudes from the edge of the tower more than 20 feet, or more
than the width of the tower structure at the level of the appurtenance,
whichever is greater.
      B.   Towers in the right-of-way, and all base stations, a “substantial
change”
         •   increases the height of the tower or base station by more than 10%
or 10 feet, whichever is greater, or
         •   protrudes from the edge of the structure more than 6 feet.
      C.   All Towers and base stations, a substantial change:
         •   involves installation of more than the standard number of new
equipment cabinets for the technology involved, but not to exceed four
cabinets.
         •   entails any excavation or deployment outside the current site of the tower or base
station;
         •   defeats the existing concealment elements of the tower or base station;
or
         •   does not comply with conditions associated with the prior approval
of construction or modification of the tower or base station unless the non-
compliance is due to any of the “substantial change” thresholds identified
above.
   2.   Changes in Height
      A.   Changes in height are to be measured from the original support
structure in cases where the deployments are or will be separated horizontally.
      B.   In other circumstances, changes in height are to be measured from
the dimensions of the original tower or base station and all originally
approved appurtenances, and any modifications approved prior to the passage of
the Spectrum Act.
      C.   Note, the changes are measured cumulatively; otherwise, a series of
small changes could add up to a cumulative change that exceeds the “substantial
change” threshold.
9.03.12   Inspections
   The City reserves the right to conduct inspection of towers, antenna support
structures, telecommunications facilities and antenna upon reasonable notice to
the tower owner or operator to determine compliance with this Section and to
prevent structural and equipment failures and accidents which may cause damage,
injuries or nuisances to the public. Inspections may be made to determine
compliance with the City’s Zoning Codes and any other construction standards
set forth by the City, federal, and state law or applicable ANSI standards.
Inspections shall be made by either an employee of Kimball’s Zoning Office, or
a duly appointed independent representative of the City.
9.03.13   Maintenance
   The towers, antenna support structures, telecommunications facilities and
antennas shall at all times be kept and maintained in good condition, order and
repair so that the same does not constitute a nuisance to or a danger to the
life or property of any person or the public.
9.03.14   Abandonment
   If any tower shall cease to be used for a period of one year, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the tower owner that the site will be subject to
determination by the Zoning Administrator that the site has been abandoned.
Upon issuance of written notice to show cause by the Zoning Administrator, the
tower owner shall have 30 days to show preponderance of evidence that the tower
has been in use or under repair during the period of apparent abandonment. In
the event the tower owner fails to show that the tower has been in use or under
repair during the relevant period, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a final
determination of abandonment of the site and the tower owner shall have 75 days
thereafter to dismantle and move the tower. In the event the tower is not
dismantled and removed, the tower shall be declared a public nuisance by the
Zoning Administrator, or his/her designee and a written request shall be
directed to the City Attorney to proceed to abate said public nuisance pursuant
to authority of the Revised Nebraska State Statutes and City of Kimball codes,
and charge the costs thereof against the real estate on which the tower is
located or the owner of record of the said real estate.
9.03.15   Approval Denial Procedures for Tower Development Permit
   1.   Any decision to deny an application to place, construct or modify a
wireless facility must be “in writing” and supported by substantial evidence
contained in a written record.
   2.   The regulation of placement, construction, and modification of personal
wireless services facilities by the City of Kimball shall not unreasonably
discriminate among providers of functionally equivalent services;
   3.   The regulation of the placement, construction, and modification of
personal wireless service facilities by the City of Kimball shall not prohibit
or have the effect of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless services;
   4.   The City of Kimball shall not regulate the placement, construction, or
modification of personal wireless service facilities on the basis of
environmental effects of radio frequency emissions to the extent that such
emissions comply with FCC regulations;
Section 9.04 Fences
9.04.01   Definitions
   1.   Fence: Any vertical structure, other than a building or plant material
which is for the purpose of obstructing visual observation, or for the purpose
of obstructing pedestrian, automotive or animal movement, or for the purpose of
beautification, and which is attached to the ground or to a building but
excluding retaining walls.
   2.   Open Fence: Split rail or 1 x 4-inch board with
a maximum of three horizontal rails or boards with no vertical boards except
supporting posts, or open metal fencing.
   3.   Closed Fence: Fences constructed in any manner other than open.
9.04.02   Fences, General Requirements Residential
In zoning districts R-1 and R-2 and any other residential districts which may
hereafter be added, no fence shall be erected constructed, or moved except for
the following types:
   1.   Along the front property line. An open
fence not exceeding 36 inches if constructed of wood or 48 inches if of metal
fencing.
   2.   Along the side yard common to the side street on a corner lot. Any
fence constructed within 25 feet of the front property line must be an open
fence meeting the specifications of
9.04.02 (1).
   3.   On a side lot common to two lots. An open or closed fence within
25 feet of the front property line. Such a fence shall not exceed height
requirements of
9.04.02 (1).
   4.   Fences along all other property lines. May be open
or closed and shall not exceed 6 feet in height. Such fences may turn in at the
rear building line on the street side of a corner lot and at the front building
line on a side lot common to two lots.
   5.   All fences shall be constructed of wood, metal, fiberglass, vinyl, PVC,
concrete or masonry materials, shall be structurally sound, shall have a neat
and finished appearance and shall be straight and true. No fence shall use
electrically charged fence material in its construction.
   6.   Fences must be maintained in good repair. The building and zoning
administrator may order any dilapidated, dangerous, or non-conforming fence
removed.
   7.   Electric Fences.  No electric fence, except for an underground
invisible fence for animal control, shall be constructed or maintained within
the City of Kimball or within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction except
in TA-1 District as hereinafter provided. An owner or lessee of such property
may, upon application to the City and approval by the Zoning Administrator,
maintain electrified fencing provided same shall not be energized to the extent
that it can cause bodily harm to persons, be they children or adults, or to
animals. Before the Zoning Administrator shall approve any electrified fencing,
it shall be determined that non-electrified fencing will not adequately protect
the owner’s property and the owner’s application for approval of electrified
fencing shall set forth in detail the reasons why non-electrified fencing will
not adequately protect his property.
9.04.03   Fences, Permit Required
   No fence shall be erected, constructed, or moved until a building permit
shall have been procured
from the Building Inspector. Application for a fence building permit shall include a sketch
of the lot, the location of any buildings on the lot, the proposed fence and
sufficient dimensions to accurately locate these features.
Section 9.05  Performance Standards for Industrial Uses
9.05.01   Physical Appearance:  All operations shall be carried on within an
enclosed building except that new materials or equipment in operable condition
may be stored in the open. Normal daily wastes of an inorganic nature may be
stored in containers not in a building when such containers are not readily
visible from a street. The provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed
to prohibit the display of merchandise or vehicles for sale or the storage of
vehicles, boats, farm machinery, trailers, mobile homes, or similar equipment
when in operable condition.
9.05.02   Fire hazard:  No operation shall involve the use of highly flammable
gasses, acid, liquids, grinding processes, or other inherent fire hazards. This
provision shall not be construed to prohibit the use of normal heating fuels,
motor fuels and welding gasses when handled in accordance with other ordinance
of the City of Kimball.
9.05.03   Noise:  No operation shall be carried on which involves noise in
excess of the normal traffic noise of the adjacent street at the time of the
daily peak hour of traffic volume. Noise shall be measured at the property line
and when the level of such noise cannot be determined by observation with
the natural senses, a suitable instrument may be used and measurement may
include breakdowns into a reasonable number of frequency ranges.
9.05.04   Sewage and Liquid Wastes:  No operation shall be carried on which
involves the discharge into a sewer, water course, or the ground, liquid waste
of any radioactive or poisonous nature or chemical waste which are detrimental
to normal sewage plant operation or corrosive and damaging to sewer pipes and
installations.
9.05.05   Air Contaminants:
   1.   Air Contaminants and smoke shall be less dark than designated Number
One on the Ringleman Chart as published by the United States Bureau of Mines,
except that smoke
of a density designated as Number One shall be permitted for one four-
minute period in each one-half hour. Light colored contaminants of such a
capacity as to obscure an observer's view to a degree equal to or greater than
the aforesaid shall not be permitted.
   2.   Particulate matter of dust as measured at the point of emission by any
generally accepted method shall not be emitted in excess of two tenths 
(0.2) grains per cubic foot as corrected to a temperature of 500 degrees
Fahrenheit, except for a period of four minutes in any one-half hour, at which
time it may equal but not exceed six tenths (0.6) grains per cubic foot as
corrected to a temperature of 500 degrees Fahrenheit.
   3.   Due to the fact that the possibilities of air contamination cannot
reasonably be comprehensively covered in this section, there shall be applied
the general rule that there shall not be discharged from any sources whatsoever
such quantities of air contaminants or other material in such quantity as to
cause injury, detriment, nuisance, or annoyance to any considerable number of
persons or to the public in general; or to endanger the comfort, repose,
health, or safety of any such considerable number of persons or to the public
in general, or to cause, or have a natural tendency to cause injury or damage
to business, vegetation, or property.
   4.   Odor: 
The emission of odors that are generally agreed to be obnoxious to
any considerable numbers of persons, shall be prohibited. Observations of odor
shall be made at the property line of the establishment causing the odor. As a
guide to classification of odor it shall be deemed that strong odors of
putrefaction and fermentation tend to be obnoxious and that such odors as
associated with baking or the roasting of nuts and coffee shall not normally be
considered obnoxious within the meaning of this Ordinance.
   5.   Gasses: The gasses sulphur dioxide and hydrogen sulphide shall not
exceed five parts per million (5ppm), carbon monoxide shall not exceed five
parts per million (5ppm). All measurements shall be taken at the zoning lot
line.
   6.   Vibration: All machines including punch presses and stamping machines
shall be so mounted as to minimize vibration and in no case shall such
vibration exceed a displacement of three thousandths of an inch (0.003”)
measured at the zoning lot line. The use of steam or broad hammers shall not be
permitted in this zone.
   7.   Glare and heat: All glare, such as welding arcs and open furnaces shall
be shielded so that they shall not be visible from the zoning lot line. No heat
from furnaces or processing equipment shall be sensed at the zoning lot line to
the extent of raising the temperature of air or materials more than five
degrees Fahrenheit.
9.05.06   Maximum Permitted Sound Levels Adjacent to Residential Zoning
Districts
   displays the maximum permitted sound levels that may be generated by uses in
the I-
1
zoning districts where adjacent to residential zoning districts. All measurements shall be taken
at or within the boundary between the originating district and the adjacent
residential zoning district with a sound level meter meeting ANSI
specifications for a Type II or better general purpose sound level meter. The
A-weighted response shall be used.
Maximum Permitted Sound Levels at Residential Boundaries
 
Originating Zoning DistrictTime                   Maximum One Hour Leq*
I-1 and I-2               7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.(dBA)
                                                   60
                            10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.55
* Leq is the constant sound level that, in a given situation and time period,
conveys the same sound energy as the actual time-varying A-weighted sound. It
is the average sound level and accurately portrays the sound the human ear
actually hears.
Section 9.06  Junk Yards or Salvage Yards
Junk Yards and salvage of materials may be allowed in identified districts;
provided the following minimum conditions are met (additional conditions may be
required depending upon the operation and the proposed location:)
   1.   Construction and operation shall comply with the Kimball Code of
Ordinances and any other applicable codes or requirements.
   2.   Receiving areas for junk or salvage material shall be designed to avoid
the depositing of junk or salvage material outside a building or outside
screened (solid fence) storage areas.
   3.   Junk yards and salvage of materials shall contain a minimum of two
acres and shall not be located within a designated 100-year floodplain area as
identified by the Corps of Engineers.
   4.   Junk or salvage material kept outside a building or buildings shall not
be located closer than 500 feet from any designated state or federal highway.
Or locally designated expressway, major arterial, and other arterial as per the
State of Nebraska Department of Transportation or subsequent successor agency.
   5.   Junk material kept outside a building or buildings shall not be located in the required front
yard.
   6.   Junk or salvage material kept outside a building or buildings shall be
at least 100 feet from the boundaries of the I-1 zoning district and shall be
at least 500 feet from the any residential district or use.
   7.   All motor vehicles shall have all fluids drained prior to placement within the
facility.
Section 9.07  Auto Repair, Equipment Repair, and Body Repair
   1.   Where permitted in commercial districts, all repair activities must
take place within a completely enclosed building. Outdoor storage is permitted
only where incidental to Auto Repair and Body Repair, provided that such
storage is completely screened so as not to be visible from residential areas
or public rights-of-ways.
   2.   Any spray painting must take place within structures designed for that
purpose and approved by the Zoning Administrator.
Section 9.08  Automobile and Equipment Rental and Sales
   1.   All outdoor display areas for rental and sales facilities shall be hard
surfaced.
   2.   Body repair services are permitted as an accessory use to automobile
rental and sales facilities, provided that such repair services shall not
exceed 25% of the gross floor area of the building.
Section 9.09  Shipping Containers
9.09.01   Shipping Containers
   1.   A reusable enclosed or semi-enclosed vessel, cargo container, or truck
trailer: Originally,
specifically, or formerly designed or used for the packing, shipping, movement, or transportation
of freight, articles, goods, belongings, or commodities, or
   2.   Designed for or capable of being mounted or moved on a railcar, truck, or vessel;
or
   3.   Designed for or capable of being mounted on a chassis or bogie for
movement by truck tractor or similar device.
9.09.02   Pods
   1.   A portable storage container designed and intended for the temporary placement upon property
for the onsite storage of household or other goods, with a size typically not
exceeding16 ft. x 8 ft. x 8 ft.
      A.   Permit Required. No person shall place, locate, maintain, or
otherwise keep a shipping container on any lot or parcel of ground within the
City of Kimball or within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction without
first having obtained a building permit for the placement thereof.
Shipping containers must comply with all
applicable building codes and receive all applicable permits, except that:
         1).   A foundation shall not be required, but the shipping container
must be securely anchored to the ground;
         2).   Ventilation shall not be required:
         3).   Electricity is an option but shall not be required;
      B.   Restrictions. Shipping containers may be placed or installed only in the TA-
1, F-1 and 1-1 districts and shall be subject to the following restrictions:
         1).   Shipping containers shall not be installed on any residentially
zoned lot containing less than 1 acre in area.
         2).   Only one shipping container shall be installed per lot or parcel of
land.
         3).   No shipping container shall be stacked on top of another or on top of any other
object.
         4).   Shipping containers must be placed or located behind the main or
primary structure on the lot or parcel of ground and shall be set back from all
property lines a minimum of 50 feet.
         5).   No shipping container shall be used for human habitation
purposes.
         6).   No shipping container shall be used to store hazardous material.
         7).   No shipping container shall be used to store or keep refuse or
debris in, against, on or under the shipping container.
         8).   The shipping container shall be fully screened by an opaque
fence or fast-growing landscaping and the shipping container shall be painted a
neutral color, e.g., white, grey or a shade of brown.
         9).   Every shipping container shall be secure, structurally sound, stable, and in good
repair.
9.09.03   Exceptions:
   1.   Subparagraphs A and B shall not apply to, and no permit shall be
required for, any shipping container that is placed, kept, or stored upon the
premises of a business directly engaged in transporting goods and used solely
in conjunction with such business and not used for storage or other purposes on
the business premises.
   2.   Subsections A and B shall not apply to, and no permit shall be required
for, the placement of PODS in any zoning district for temporary use for no more
than 30 calendar days in any one year. Persons placing pods upon
their premises shall register such placement with the City Clerk, noting the
date upon which the PODS were first placed upon the premises. Exemptions The
temporary use of construction trailers or containers at a building site is
exempt from this requirement.
Section 9.10  Self-Storage Units (Mini-Warehouses)
   1.   Minimum lot size of the Self-Storage facility shall be 5,000 square
feet.
   2.   Activities within the facility shall be limited to the rental of
storage cubicles and the administration and maintenance of the facility.
   3.   All driveways, parking, loading and vehicle circulation areas shall be
surfaced with concrete, asphalt, asphaltic concrete, crushed rock or other
approved rock other than gravel. All driveways within the facility shall
provide a hard surface with a minimum width of 25 feet.
   4.   All storage must be within enclosed buildings and shall not include the
storage of hazardous materials.
   5.   No storage may open into the front yards.
   6.   The total area covered by buildings shall not exceed 50 percent of the
site.
   7.   The storage of hazardous, toxic, or explosive substances, including,
but not limited to, hazardous waste, industrial solid waste, medical waste,
municipal solid waste, septage, or used oil.
   8.   Facilities must maintain landscape buffer yards of 50 feet adjacent to
any public right-of-way and 20 feet adjacent to other property lines, unless
greater setbacks are required, a total of 35 percent of all yards shall be
landscaped.
   9.   Site development shall include provisions for stormwater management in
accordance with the ordinances of the City of Kimball
   10.   Height limitations shall require a maximum height of 20 feet for any structure in the
facility.
Section 9.11  Sand and Gravel, Mineral, Stone, Rock, and Soil Extraction and
Quarries
It shall be unlawful for any owner or owners or property to extract, mine,
quarry, or remove soil for commercial purposes without the proper permits
except soil donated for use by a municipality, county, or state for public
roadway purposes.
   1.   When soil is sold, removed, and transported to be used for public
roadway purposes, it shall be the responsibility of the property owner to meet
the following conditions:
      A.   The application shall include a grading map showing contours,
proposed extraction contours, and proposed final grade contours.
      B.   The applicant shall identify the effect of the extraction on the groundwater table of the
adjoining properties.
      C.   Erosion controls, including retention and sediment basins shall be
provided during extraction to prevent a change in the character of runoff onto
adjacent land.
      D.   The application shall identify proposed vehicle and equipment storage
areas.
      E.   The surface shall be maintained in such a manner that surface waters
do not collect or pond, unless specifically approved. Underground drainage may
be supplied if it connects to an existing facility.
      F.   Topsoil shall be collected and stored for redistribution on the site
at termination of the operation.
      G.   Excavation shall be conducted in such a way as not to constitute a
hazard to any persons, nor to the adjoining property. All cuts shall be
returned to a slope of less than 3:1 as soon as possible. Safety screening
shall be required at the outer boundary of the site; visual screening will also
be required where said boundary is adjacent to residential or recreational
land;
      H.   Within one year after completion of the excavation on any portion of
the site, the topography and soils shall be stabilized, and the land shall be
graded, seeded, and sodded so as to prevent erosion and siltation, and to
protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the public.
      I.   The owner of the property shall obtain adequate insurance to cover
any of the damages, which may occur as a result of this operation and shall
assume all liability for any damages. A copy of such insurance or other proof
of such insurance shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator’s office prior
to issuing a Conditional Use Permit.
      J.   To assure that all these conditions are met by the owner, a bond
contingent on the size of the operation, removal, or extraction may be required
to be posted with the City and County.
   2.   Exceptions
      A.   Sections
9.15 (1) (A-J) do not apply to removals, extractions, and operations that
remove less than 100 cubic yards from a given location.
      B.   Sections
9.15 (1) (A-J) do not apply to owners who donate soil to a municipality,
county, or state. Further, this section does not apply to sand and gravel
quarries, or the commercial removal of soil not used for road purposes.
Section 9.12  Amateur Radio Towers and FCC Pronouncements
   1.   Radio towers, antennas and other appurtenances operated by licensed
amateur radio operators, where permitted and when, may not exceed 75 feet in
height. This height has been determined by the City to reasonably accommodate
amateur service communications, and further represents the minimum practicable
regulation to accomplish legitimate municipal land use regulation purpose, as
recognized under published guidelines of the Federal Communications Commission.
   2.   Special instances may require that amateur radio tower heights exceed
75 feet to achieve effective and reliable communications. In such cases, the
City Council may grant a Conditional Use Permit to a licensed amateur radio
operator for a specific tower height that exceeds 75 feet. In determining
whether to grant such permission, the City Council shall consider the federal
guidelines contained in PRB-1 (Amateur Radio Preemption, 101 FCC 2d (1985);
codified at C.F.R. Section 97.15(e).
   3.   Such radio towers shall not be located within any front yard of the primary
use.
Section 9.13  Data Centers
9.13.01   Purpose
The purpose of this section is to regulate the location, design, construction,
and operation of data centers within the jurisdiction in order to promote
efficient and responsible development, ensure compatibility with surrounding
land uses, protect the environment, and safeguard public health, safety, and
welfare.
9.13.02   Data Centers
   1.   Data Centers may be established in areas with adequate infrastructure,
including but not limited to reliable power supply, access to fiber-optic
networks, and appropriate road capacity.
      A.   Applicant shall provide evidence of sufficient water and wastewater
capacity from the Utility provider, or certification by a Professional
Engineer if water is to be provided by well and onsite wastewater treatment
systems.
      B.   Applicant shall provide a signed letter from the electric utility
demonstrating ability to serve the facility without decreased system capacity.
      C.   Applicant shall be responsible for all costs to extend infrastructure to the data center
site.
   2.   Data centers shall be allowed as a principal use within designated
Districts.
   3.   Accessory uses directly related to data center operations, such as
maintenance facilities, security offices, and employee amenities, are
permitted.
9.13.03   Development Standards
   1.   Setbacks and Buffer Zones
      A.   Buffer zones consisting of landscaping, walls, or other appropriate
measures may be required to provide visual and noise mitigation between the
data center and adjacent properties, particularly in residential or sensitive
use areas.
      B.   Data centers shall be designed to ensure compatibility with the
surrounding built environment, including the use of materials, colors, and
architectural elements blending into the character of the area.
      C.   Exterior walls and roofs should be designed to minimize the visual
impact of the facility, such as through the use of earth-tone colors and non-
reflective surfaces.
   2.   Sufficient on-site parking spaces shall be provided to meet the needs
of employees and visitors, while minimizing adverse impacts on the surrounding
area.
   3.   Access to data centers should be designed to ensure efficient traffic flow
and prevent congestion, considering the volume and type of anticipated traffic.
9.13.04   Environmental Considerations
   1.   Data centers shall be designed and operated to maximize energy
efficiency, including the use of energy-efficient servers, cooling systems, and
lighting.
   2.   Renewable energy sources, such as solar or wind power, should be
considered for on-site energy generation whenever feasible.
   3.   Data centers shall implement water-
efficient practices, including the use of recycled water for cooling systems
and landscaping, and the installation of water-saving fixtures within the
facility.
9.13.05   Operational Requirements
   1.   Data centers shall have emergency response plans in place to address
potential hazards, such as power outages, fires, and natural disasters.
   2.   Adequate fire suppression and detection systems shall be installed and
maintained in compliance with applicable fire codes.
   3.   Data centers shall implement noise mitigation measures to minimize
impacts on nearby residential areas, including the use of sound-insulated walls
and equipment enclosures.
   4.   Data centers shall implement appropriate security measures, including controlled access,
surveillance systems, and adequate lighting, to ensure the protection of data
and infrastructure.
Section 9.14   Mobile Food Units
Mobile Food Units are allowed in specific zoning districts; however, these uses shall be required to
abide by the following requirements:
   1.   All units shall only operate during the hours identified on the permit.
   2.   All refuse shall be transported off-site unless an agreement with the
property owner is submitted to the City identifying an alternate.
   3.   Mobile Food Units may be allowed in Residential areas on a temporary basis, provided the following
are met:
      A.   They shall be allowed for only a four-hour period.
      B.   They shall not be located in a manner that blocks traffic or identified sight
triangles
   4.   All units shall not be allowed to use intense lights in order to attract
customers.
   5.   During non-
operation hours, these units shall be stored on a vacant lot or in an enclosed
structure.
Section 9.15   Roadside Stands
   1.   A roadside stand is a facility used on a temporary or seasonal basis for the retail sale of
produce grown largely on adjacent or surrounding agricultural lands.
   2.   A roadside stand may be located within a required front yard but no
closer than 40 feet to the edge of a traveled roadway.
   3.   A roadside stand may operate for a maximum of 180 days in any one year.
Section 9.16   Adult Entertainment Establishments
9.16.01   Purpose; Findings and Rationale
This section redacted. Full text available at City Hall.
9.16.02   Definitions
This section redacted. Full text available at City Hall.
9.16.03   Performance Standards
This section redacted. Full text available at City Hall.
Section 9.17   Reserved
This section reserved for future use.
Section 9.18   Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU)
One accessory dwelling unit per lot may be allowed by Conditional Use Permit in the indicated zoning districts
in Section
5.06 under the following conditions:
   1.   The accessory dwelling unit shall fit within the allowable development area of the
lot.
   2.   The total square footage of the ADU shall not exceed the lesser of
1,000 square feet or 40% of the square footage of the principal dwelling,
excluding the garages, carports, and space used for mechanical equipment, such
as heating, utilities and water heater or pumps. Any other unfinished space
in a basement is included in the square footage to allow it to be furnished in
the future. The calculation for the principal dwelling shall be based on the
floor area as of the date the Conditional Use Permit is filed.
   3.   No more than two bedrooms are allowed in the ADU. Bedroom shall mean
any room or space used or intended to be used for sleeping purposes.
   4.   The owner of the lot is required to live on the property in either the
principal dwelling or the ADU. The owner of the lot shall file with the
Register of Deeds, a deed restriction agreement on the property stating the
accessory dwelling cannot be sold separately from the principal dwelling. The
deed restriction agreement must be to the satisfaction of the City Attorney.
The deed restriction agreement shall be filed prior to any zoning permit for
the ADU.
   5.   The ADU must share the same access point to the public or private street as the principal
dwelling.
   6.   The ADU must meet the same setback requirements as the principal
dwelling of the district. The height of
the ADU must meet the height limit of the district for a dwelling but be
no higher than the principal dwelling.
   7.   A detached ADU shall be located a distance no greater than
200 feet from the principal dwelling and must not be closer to the street
right-of-way than the principal dwelling.
   8.   The ADU must share utilities with the principal dwelling unless the owner can demonstrate a practical
problem with sharing due to the topography or other unique site considerations.
Section 9.19   Bed and Breakfasts
Bed and Breakfasts shall meet the following requirements:
   1.   Maintain a residential exterior appearance
   2.   Rooms may not be rented for more than seven consecutive days and no more than 14 days per
person in any 30-day period.
   3.   Breakfast must be served on premises and included within the room charge for guest of the facility
and shall be the only meal provided.
Section 9.20   Dwelling Unit, Special Types
This section is intended to establish special conditions by which Special types of dwelling units may
be established within the jurisdiction of Kimball.
9.20.01   Tiny Houses
   Tiny houses fall under two separate categories, Site Built and RV/Park
Model/Camper.
Site Built Tiny Houses
   1.   Tiny homes shall have at least one habitable room with not less than 120 sf of gross floor
area.
   2.   Other habitable rooms shall have not less than 70 sf of floor area, except for
kitchens.
   3.   Habitable rooms shall not be less than seven feet in any horizontal
dimension.
   4.   Ceiling height effect on room area:
      A.   Portions of a sloped ceiling measuring less than five feet or a furred ceiling measuring less than seven
feet from the finished floor.
      B.   The finished ceiling shall not be considered as contributing to the minimum required habitable area for
the room.
   5.   Ceiling heights shall be a minimum of seven feet in habitable spaces, hallways, bathrooms, and toilet
rooms.
   6.   Every dwelling shall have toilet facilities-
water closet, lavatory, and a bathtub or shower.
   7.   Tiny homes shall have a kitchen area and sink.
   8.   The unit shall provide heating and cooling systems as required by local, state and/
or federal codes.
   9.   All electrical shall be in compliance with all local, state and/
or federal electrical codes.
   10.   The unit shall meet all egress requirements found in local, state, and/
or federal codes.
   11.   All foundations shall meet local, state, and/or federal building
codes.
   12.   All structures shall meet the maximum coverage on a lot as any ordinary single-
family dwelling.
   13.   No Site Built Tiny House shall be constructed in any floodplain.
RV/Park Model/Camper
   1.   The unit shall be constructed upon a single chassis.
   2.   The unit shall have 400 sf or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections.
   3.   The unit shall be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck.
   4.   The unit shall not be considered to be designed for use as a permanent dwelling but as a temporary
living quarter.
   5.   All electrical, including temporary hook-
ups, shall be in compliance with all local, state and/or federal electrical
codes.
   6.   All plumbing and other mechanical systems shall not be permanently connected to a
supply or discharge source.
   7.   The wheels and axles shall remain on the unit at all times.
   8.   Accessory structures shall not be supported by these units.
   9.   No RV/Park Model/Camper shall be located in any floodplain.
Tiny House Villages/Communities
   Tiny house villages/
communities may be allowed in identified areas and shall be designed using the PDO-
Planned Development Overlay process within this Ordinance.
9.20.02   Grain Bin Homes
Any residential structure meeting the definition of a grain bin home shall meet the following
criteria:
   1.   Grain bin homes shall be structurally anchored to a permanent foundation
and said foundation shall meet local, state, and/or federal building codes.
   2.   Grain bin homes shall have at least one habitable room with not less than 120 sf of gross floor
area.
   3.   Other habitable rooms shall have not less than 70 sf of floor area, except for
kitchens.
   4.   Habitable rooms shall not be less than seven feet in any horizontal
dimension.
   5.   Ceiling height effect on room area:
      A.   Portions of a sloped ceiling measuring less than five feet or a furred ceiling measuring less than seven
feet from the finished floor;
      B.   The finished ceiling shall not be considered as contributing to the minimum required habitable area for
the room;
   6.   Ceiling heights shall be a minimum seven feet in habitable spaces, hallways, bathrooms, and toilet
rooms;
   7.   Every dwelling shall have toilet facilities-
water closet, lavatory, and a bathtub or shower;
   8.   Grain bin homes shall have a kitchen area and sink;
   9.   The unit shall provide heating and cooling systems as required by local, state and/
or federal codes;
   10.   All electrical shall be in compliance with all local, state and/
or federal electrical codes;
   11.   The unit shall meet all egress requirements found in local, state, and/
or federal codes;
   12.   Any and all extensions off the grain bin home shall be structurally designed regarding all attachments and
cantilevers’;
   13.   All modifications needed to convert the grain bin
(s) into a dwelling unit shall be required to have all modifications designed
and engineered by a licensed architect and/or engineer;
   14.   All items requiring the structure to be structurally designed/
modified shall be sealed by a structural engineer;
   15.   All structures shall meet the maximum coverage on a lot as any ordinary single-
family dwelling.
9.20.03   Cargo Container Homes
Any residential structure meeting the definition of a cargo container home shall meet the following
criteria:
   1.   Cargo container homes shall be structurally anchored to a permanent foundation and said foundation
shall meet local, state, and/or federal building codes;
   2.   Multiple containers shall be structurally and permanently attached to each
other;
   3.   Cargo container homes shall have at least one habitable room with not less than 120 sf of gross floor
area;
   4.   Other habitable rooms shall have not less than 70 sf of floor area, except for
kitchens;
   5.   Habitable rooms shall not be less than seven feet in any horizontal
dimension;
   6.   Ceiling height effect on room area:
      A.   Portions of a sloped ceiling measuring less than five feet or a furred ceiling measuring less than seven
feet from the finished floor;
      B.   The finished ceiling shall not be considered as contributing to the minimum required habitable area for
the room;
   7.   Ceiling heights shall be a minimum of seven feet in habitable spaces, hallways, bathrooms, and toilet
rooms;
   8.   Every dwelling shall have toilet facilities-
water closet, lavatory, and a bathtub or shower;
   9.   Cargo container homes shall have a kitchen area and sink;
   10.   The unit shall provide heating and cooling systems as required by local, state and/
or federal codes;
   11.   All electrical shall be in compliance with all local, state and/
or federal electrical codes;
   12.   The unit shall meet all egress requirements found in local, state, and/
or federal codes;
   13.   Any and all extensions off the cargo container home shall be structurally designed regarding all
attachments and cantilevers’;
   14.   All modifications needed to convert the cargo container
(s) into a dwelling unit shall be required to have all modifications designed
and engineered by a licensed architect and/or engineer;
   15.   All items requiring the structure to be structurally designed/
modified shall be sealed by a structural engineer;
   16.   All structures shall meet the maximum coverage on a lot as any ordinary single-
family dwelling.
   17.   No Cargo Container Homes shall be constructed in any floodplain.
9.20.04   Tree House Homes
Any residential structure meeting the definition of a tree house home shall meet the following
criteria:
   1.   Tree house homes shall only be permitted as an accessory use to a primary
structure;
   2.   Tree house homes shall have at least one habitable room with not less than 120 sf of gross floor
area;
   3.   Other habitable rooms shall have not less than 70 sf of floor area, except for
kitchens;
   4.   Habitable rooms shall not be less than seven feet in any horizontal
dimension;
   5.   Ceiling height effect on room area:
      A.   Portions of a sloped ceiling measuring less than five feet or a furred ceiling measuring less than seven
feet from the finished floor;
      B.   The finished ceiling shall not be considered as contributing to the minimum required habitable area for
the room;
   6.   Ceiling heights shall be a minimum of seven feet in habitable spaces, and
hallways;
   7.   The unit shall provide heating and cooling systems as required by local, state and/
or federal codes;
   8.   All electrical shall be in compliance with all local, state and/
or federal electrical codes;
   9.   The unit shall meet all egress requirements found in local, state, and/
or federal codes;
   10.   All tree house homes designed as recreational structures and/
or sleeping quarters shall be structurally designed prior to construction and
sealed by a structural engineer.
9.20.05   Quonset Homes
Any residential structure meeting the definition of a Quonset home shall meet the following
criteria:
   1.   Quonset homes shall be structurally anchored to a permanent foundation
and said foundation shall meet local, state, and/or federal building codes;
   2.   Quonset homes shall have at least one habitable room with not less than 120 sf of gross floor
area;
   3.   Other habitable rooms shall have not less than 70 sf of floor area, except for
kitchens;
   4.   Habitable rooms shall not be less than seven feet in any horizontal
dimension;
   5.   Ceiling height effect on room area:
      A.   Portions of a sloped ceiling measuring less than five feet or a furred ceiling measuring less than seven
feet from the finished floor;
      B.   The finished ceiling shall not be considered as contributing to the minimum required habitable area for
the room;
   6.   Ceiling heights shall be a minimum of seven feet in habitable spaces, hallways, bathrooms, and toilet
rooms;
   7.   Every dwelling shall have toilet facilities-
water closet, lavatory, and a bathtub or shower;
   8.   Quonset homes shall have a kitchen area and sink;
   9.   The unit shall provide heating and cooling systems as required by local, state and/
or federal codes;
   10.   All electrical shall be in compliance with all local, state and/
or federal electrical codes;
   11.   The unit shall meet all egress requirements found in local, state, and/
or federal codes;
   12.   Any and all extensions off the Quonset home shall be structurally designed regarding all attachments and
cantilevers’;
   13.   All modifications needed to convert the
Quonset into a dwelling unit shall be required to have all modifications
designed and engineered by a licensed architect and/or engineer;
   14.   All items requiring the structure to be structurally designed/
modified shall be sealed by a structural engineer;
   15.   All structures shall meet the maximum coverage on a lot as any ordinary single-
family dwelling.
9.18.06 Shouses
Any residential structure meeting the definition of a Shouse shall meet the following
criteria:
   1.   Shouses shall be structurally anchored to a permanent foundation and said foundation shall meet local,
state, and/or federal building codes;
   2.   Once a Shouse has been
established, the overall structure, including the shop area will no longer be
considered an agricultural structure/building;
   3.   Shouses homes shall have at least one habitable room with not less than 120 sf of gross floor
area;
   4.   Other habitable rooms shall have not less than 70 sf of floor area, except for
kitchens;
   5.   Habitable rooms shall not be less than seven feet in any horizontal
dimension;
   6.   Ceiling height effect on room area:
      A.   Portions of a sloped ceiling measuring less than five feet or a furred ceiling measuring less than seven
feet from the finished floor;
      B.   The finished ceiling shall not be considered as contributing to the minimum required habitable area for
the room;
   7.   Ceiling heights shall be a minimum of seven feet in habitable spaces, hallways, bathrooms, and toilet
rooms;
   8.   Every dwelling shall have toilet facilities-
water closet, lavatory, and a bathtub or shower;
   9.   Shouses shall have a kitchen area and sink;
   10.   The unit shall provide heating and cooling systems as required by local, state and/
or federal codes;
   11.   All electrical shall be in compliance with all local, state and/
or federal electrical codes;
   12.   The unit shall meet all egress requirements found in local, state, and/
or federal codes;
   13.   Any and all extensions off the Shouse shall be structurally designed regarding all attachments and
cantilevers’;
   14.   All modifications needed to convert the machine
shed into a dwelling unit shall be required to have all modifications designed
and engineered by a licensed architect and/or engineer;
   15.   All items requiring the structure to be structurally designed/
modified shall be sealed by a structural engineer;
   16.   All structures shall meet the maximum coverage on a lot as any ordinary single-
family dwelling.
Section 9.21   Recreational Vehicles and Camping
9.21.01   Purpose
   Recreational vehicles (RVs) and camping are important amenities in western
Nebraska. This section is intended to protect the health, safety, and welfare
of Kimball residents and visitors.
9.21.02   Residential Use
   1.   Within the municipal limits of Kimball, no Recreational Vehicle (RV)
shall be used for living, sleeping, or housekeeping outside a Recreational
Vehicle Park or Manufactured Home Park where authorized under these
regulations, and as regulated by Section 131.07 the Municipal Code as it may be
revised and amended.
9.14.03 RV Parks and Campgrounds
   1.   An RV Park and/
or Campground may be established where permitted under the following
conditions:
      A.   The lot area shall be not less than one (1) acre.
      B.   A facility shall provide minimum facilities including a Community Building with running water and toilets,
and refuse containers.
         1)   If individual sewer hookups are not provided at RV sites, a dump
station shall be provided for RV black water.
      C.   Individual RV campsites, other than tent spaces, shall have a
designated area of not less than seven hundred fifty 
(750) square feet and the total number of RV units per gross acre shall not exceed twenty
(20). RVs shall be separated by at least ten (10) feet at all times.
      D.   Individual camp sites shall be located no less than twenty-five 
(25) feet from any property line.
      E.   The layout of the park/
campground shall be such that destruction of natural vegetation and topography
of the area is minimized.
      F.   Individual RV sites will take access on internal drives and will not exit directly onto public
streets.
         1)   Internal access drives shall be designed and constructed to specifications set by the City Streets
Superintendent.
         2)   Adequate parking shall be provided for guests, visitors, and
staff.
      G.   Applicant is encouraged to provide a storm shelter, designed and constructed in conformance with
FEMA standards for Safe Rooms.
   2.   Application for an RV Park/Campground shall include a site plan drawn
to scale, with the location and
legal description of the proposed site and sketch
of the individual campsites showing dimensions, roads, parking areas, location
of services, and any other buildings or improvements on the site.
Section 9.22   Short-term Rentals
   This section is intended to apply strictly to the use of property for short-
term rentals within the jurisdiction of Kimball.
9.22.01 Performance Standards
Any short-term rental shall meet the following standards:
   1.   Located in a primary residential structure.
   2.   Not a part of any dwelling considered part of a multi-
family dwelling including duplexes, single-family attached units or larger.
   3.   In an accessory dwelling unit.
   4.   Not to allow the property to be used for party rentals.
   5.   Not to be used for any type of illegal activities as defined by state and federal
laws.
   6.   File the required lodging taxes with the county and state.
   7.   Be properly maintained including structural maintenance and the
grounds.
   8.   Meet all state and federal life safety codes and display said permits in a prominent
location.
   9.   Does not increase the normal level of traffic in the immediate area.
   10.   Said short-term rental shall not be used for any of the following:
      A.   Housing sex offenders;
      B.   Operating a structured sober living home or similar enterprise;
      C.   Selling illegal drugs;
      D.   Selling alcohol or another activity that requires a permit or license under the Nebraska Liquor Control
Act; or
      E.   Operating a sexually oriented business.
9.21.02 Remedies
   Failure to comply with the regulations in Section 
9.22 may result in any permit for a short-term rental to be revoked.
Section 9.23  Solar Energy Uses
No solar panel, neighborhood solar or solar farm shall be installed or constructed within the zoning
jurisdiction of Kimball unless a Conditional Use Permit has been issued. All
solar units shall be constructed in conformance with all state and national
building and fire codes. For those devices that include electrical, plumbing
and/or heating constructions, the applicable permits shall also be obtained.
Solar panels shall meet the requirements found in this section.
1.   General Solar Definitions
   Accessory Solar Energy Systems: 
Includes any photovoltaic, concentrated solar thermal, or solar hot water
devices that are accessory to, and incorporated into the development of an
authorized use of the property, and which are designed for the purpose of
reducing or meeting on-site energy needs.
   Concentrated Solar Power:  A solar conversion system (SCS) that generates
power by using mirrors or lenses to concentrate a large area of sunlight, or
solar thermal energy, unto a small area. These include but are not limited to
the following technologies: Parabolic Trough, Solar Power Tower, enclosed
trough, Fresnel Reflectors and Dish Stirling.
   Development: Any plat, subdivision, or planned unit development created
under the Kimball Zoning Ordinance.
   Electric Utility: 
The public electric utility providing retail service to a given area.
   Net Excess Generation: On an Individual Solar Conversion System, net excess
generation means the net amount of energy, if any, by which the output of a
qualified facility exceeds a customer-generator's total electricity
requirements during a billing period.
   Net Metering:
 Net metering means a system of metering electricity in which a local distribution
utility:
      A.   Credits a customer-generator at the applicable retail rate for each
kilowatt-hour produced by a qualified facility during a billing period up to
the total of the customer-generator's electricity requirements during that
billing period. A customer-generator may be charged a minimum monthly fee that
is the same as other noncustomer-generators in the same rate class but shall
not be charged any additional standby, capacity, demand, interconnection, or
other fee or charge; and
      B.   Compensates the customer-generator for Net Excess Generation during
the billing period at a rate equal to the electric utility avoided cost of
electric supply over the billing period. The monetary credits shall be applied
to the bills of the customer-generator for the preceding billing period and
shall offset the cost of energy owed by the customer-generator. If the energy
portion of the customer-generator's bill is less than zero in any month,
monetary credits shall be carried over to future bills of the customer-
generator until the balance is zero. At the end of each annualized period, any
excess monetary credits shall be paid out to coincide with the final bill of
that period.
   Solar Access: 
the ability to receive sunlight across real property for any solar energy
device.
   Solar Access Easement: A right, expressed as an easement, covenant,
condition, restriction or other
property interest in any deed, will or other instrument executed by or
on behalf of any landowner or in any
order of taking, appropriate to protect the solar skyspace of a solar collector
at a particularly described location to forbid or limit any or all
of the following where detrimental to access to solar energy: structures on or
above ground; vegetation on or above ground; or other activities. Such right
shall specifically describe a solar skyspace in three-dimensional terms in
which the activity, structures or vegetation are forbidden or limited or in
which such an easement shall set performance criteria for adequate collections
of solar energy at a particular location.
   Solar Conversion System (SCS): An assembly, structure, or design, including
passive elements, used for gathering, concentrating or absorbing direct or
indirect solar energy, specifically designed for holding a substantial amount
of useful thermal energy and to transfer that energy to a gas, solid or liquid
or to use that energy directly; this may include, but is not limited to, a
mechanism or process used for gathering solar energy through thermal gradients,
or a component used to transfer thermal energy to a gas, solid or liquid or to
convert into electricity.
   Solar Conversion System, Commercial: A commercial solar conversion system
(CSCS) is a series of solar panels and equipment
connected together in order to commercially supply the converted energy to a
community and/or power grid. A CSCS shall have a one-way connection to the
power grid.
   Solar Conversion System, Ground-Mounted:  Any SCS which is directly
supported and attached to the ground.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-180.png]
 
   Solar Conversion System, Individual: An individual solar conversion system 
(ISCS) shall be for the specific use of an individual residential, commercial,
public or industrial use.
   Solar Conversion System, Neighborhood: A neighborhood solar conversion
system (NSCS) is a series of solar panels and equipment connected together in
order to supply converted energy to a specific neighborhood and its uses.
   Solar Conversion System, Large: multiple CSCSs and any related
supporting infrastructure that primarily provide off-site power, have a
rated capacity of 100 kilowatts (kW) (ac) or more, and is the primary use on a
premises.
   Solar Conversion System, Structure-Mounted:  Any SCS which is directly
connected to and supported by a building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-182.png]
 
   Solar Skyspace: The maximum three-dimensional space extending from a solar
collector to all positions of the sun necessary for efficient use of the
collector.
      A.   Where a solar energy system is used for heating purposes only, solar skyspace shall mean the maximum
three-dimensional space extending from a solar energy collector to all
positions of the sun between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and three o'clock (3:00)
P.M. local apparent time from September 22 through March 22 of each year.
      B.   Where a solar energy system is used for cooling purposes only, solar
skyspace shall mean the maximum three-dimensional space extending from a solar
collector to all positions of the sun between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
four o'clock (4:00) P.M. local apparent time from March 23 through September 21
of each year.
   Solar Oriented Subdivision:  A subdivision in which
a minimum of 65 percent of the lots are solar-oriented lots.
   South or South-Facing:  True South, Or 20 Degrees East of Magnetic South.
2.   General Provisions Applying to ISCS, NSCS, and/or CSCS
   The following provisions shall apply, typically, to two or more of the different solar conversion systems in this
Section
      A.   For commercial and neighborhood SCS:
      Applicant shall provide evidence that the project meets commonly accepted
management
practices for avian, wildlife, and environmental protections in place at the time of application.
      B.   For commercial and neighborhood SCS:
      Applicant shall comply with specific requirements of the local fire
department.
      C.   Maintenance:
      All system and components shall be kept in operational condition,
including appearance of all
components; plus, the ground beneath the SCS shall be kept in a presentable manner based upon
the ground cover decided.
      D.   Decommissioning:
      All systems when they are no longer generating power and will no longer be used shall follow
a
decommissioning plan that has been agreed to upfront by the City of Kimball, the electric utility, and
the owner/developer.
      E.   Repowering:
      If any SCS is no longer operating for purposes of repowering,
replacement, or maintenance,
decommissioning provisions will not apply for up to six months. However, an SCS that is not operating
or is operating at a substantially reduced capacity for more than six months
will be considered abandoned and decommissioning provisions will apply.
         1)   Repowering does not require a new Conditional
Use Permit or permit amendment if the footprint
of the SCS is the same or reduced. Any increase in the footprint of the facility will require a permit
amendment.
      F.   Any applicant for a SCS project shall meet with and shall indicate they have met the requirements of
the electric utility and have in place an interconnection agreement with the
electric utility.
      G.   All NSCS and CSCS operations shall have located at key access points signage stating specific
language as outlined by the electric utility.
      H.   SCS may be installed in the floodway fringe subject to Floodplain
regulations, as may be amended from time to time, given that all components are
installed a minimum of two foot (2’)
above base flood elevation and subject to written authorization of the Floodplain Administrator.
      I.   No SCS shall be constructed in the identified floodway.
      J.   Concentrated Solar Power 
(CSP) systems are prohibited within the City of Kimball’s jurisdiction.
      K.   Financial assurances shall be in place as part of the Decommissioning
Plan.
3.   Individual Solar Conversion Systems
   A.   General Requirements for ISCS:
      ISCS’s shall conform to the required front, side and rear lot setback requirements except as provided
herein:
      1)   An SCS which is attached to an integral part
of the principal building shall meet all local, state, and federal codes for
building, electrical, plumbing, and accessibility.
      2)   A ground-mounted SCS may be located only in the required rear yard
provided it does not exceed 12-feet in height and is located not less than five
feet from the rear lot line and not closer than one foot to any existing
easement as measured from the closest point of the structure including its
foundation and anchorage.
      3)   No ground mounted SCS shall be located in the required side yard or front
yard.
      4)   All ISCS’s shall have an agreed to solar access easement, on the
south side of the yard, from any neighboring properties. Said easement shall
be filed as an instrument to each property’s deed and said easement shall stay
in place as long as the ground mounted SCS is in place and operational.
      5)   The applicant for any ISCS shall provide evidence that they have a
working Net Metering agreement with the electric utility.
   B.   Structural Requirements:
      The physical structure and connections to existing structures shall conform to the applicable local,
state, and federal codes.
   C.   Plot Plan:
      The application for a permit shall be accompanied by a plot plan drawn to scale showing property
lines, existing structures on the lot, proposed solar panel location with
respect to property lines, and dimensions of the proposed solar panel.
   D.   Preexisting Solar Panels:
      Notwithstanding noncompliance with the requirements of this section, a
solar panel erected prior to the adoption of this ordinance, pursuant to a
valid building permit issued by the City of Kimball, may continue to be
utilized so long as it is maintained in operational condition.
   E.   Decommissioning
      1)   Whenever an SCS ceases operation on a property, it shall be required
to report this to the City and the electric utility.
      2)   Whenever, a ground
mounted SCS is no longer operating, the property owner shall have six months to
completely remove the structure and wiring. The location of the SCS shall be
returned to a usable state based upon the surrounding property.
4.   Neighborhood Solar Conversion Systems
   A.   General Requirements for NSCS:
      NSCS’s shall meet the following requirements as provided herein:
      1)   A NSCS shall be set on its own lot within the neighborhood/
development.
      2)   The NSCS shall be designed and constructed for no more than the anticipated maximum solar
usage in the designated neighborhood or development.
      3)   No excess power generated shall be sold or given to a
user outside the agreed upon neighborhood or development, except via a Net
Metering agreement.
      4)   The developer shall provide the City with all solar easements
established; however, Kimball shall not be responsible for enforcing said
easements.
      5)   All solar easements shall be enforced by an establish Homeowners Association for the
development/neighborhood.
      6)   A ground mounted NSCS shall be protected with fencing and/or
bollards.
      7)   All connections to the uses within the neighborhood shall be made
underground.
      8)   An access agreement between the developer, Homeowners Association,
and any other necessary other entity and the electric utility shall exist in
case of an emergency.
      9)   A Net Metering agreement between the developer, Homeowners
Association, and any other entity and the electric utility shall exist in case
of excess electricity; and
      10)   All ground mounted NSCS’s shall have an agreed to solar access easement from any neighboring
properties. Said easement shall be filed as an instrument to each property’s
deed and said easement shall stay in place as long as the ground- mounted NSCS
is in place and operational.
   B.   Structural Requirements:
      The physical structure and connections
to existing structures shall conform to the applicable local, state, and
federal codes.
   C.   Solar Oriented Subdivision/Plot Plan:
      1)   Whenever a NSCS is part of a proposed new subdivision, the developer
shall outline the specific lot or outlot where the NSCS will be placed.
      Specific developments/neighborhoods initially designed with an NSCS shall
identify all solar easements on the preliminary and final plats and shall be
recorded the same as other utility
easements. In addition, the subdivision plats shall indicate, in addition to all other requirements in the
subdivision regulations, the location of all proposed underground conduits
serving the other lots in said subdivision.
      2)   The application for a permit shall be accompanied by a plot plan drawn to scale showing property
lines, existing structures on the lot, proposed solar panel location with
respect to property lines, and dimensions of the proposed solar panel.
      3)   The developer shall install all underground wiring as prescribed by
the electric utility.
      4)   All underground wiring shall be protected by a utility easement or
located within prescribed rights-of-way.
      5)   The developer shall provide the City with As-
builts of the wiring locations within the subdivision.
   D.   Decommissioning
      1)   A decommissioning plan shall be required to ensure that facilities
are properly removed after their useful life. Decommissioning of solar panels
must occur in the event they are not in use for 12 consecutive months. The plan
shall include provisions for removal of all structures and
foundations, restoration of soil and vegetation and a plan
ensuring financial resources will be available to fully decommission the site.
The City may require the posting of a bond, letter of credit or the
establishment of an escrow account to ensure proper decommissioning.
5.   Commercial Solar Conversion Systems:
   A.   Applicability
   The purpose of this subsection is to provide standards tor fixed-panel
photovoltaic solar farms or CSCS consisting of ground-mounted solar panels
capturing energy from the sun and converting it to electricity. The provisions
of this section are based on a ground-mounted photovoltaic facility using a
rammed post construction technique and panels supporting the flow of rainwater
between each module and the growth of vegetation beneath the arrays and
limiting the impacts of stormwater runoff. The rammed post construction
technique allows for minimal disturbance to the existing ground and grading of
the site. Based on the assumed solar farm design, The City finds the use to be
low intensity with minimal trip generation, low amounts of impervious cover,
and low emission thus the use is compatible in urbanized, non- urbanized, or
low-density areas with other uses.
   B.   Site Development Standards:
      1)   Lot coverage: No more than one percent of the gross site area shall
be occupied by enclosed buildings and structures.
      2)   Setbacks: A thirty-foot side and rear setback shall apply only to
the setback area measured from a lot line that abuts a residential use or
residential zoning district. The side or rear setback shall be
eliminated where the use does not abut a residential use or residential zoning district, or the two
districts are separated by a public right-of-way.
      3)   Height:
 The average height of the solar panel arrays shall not exceed 12 feet.
      4)   Landscaping Buffer: The primary use of the property shall determine
the buffer requirement. Where a ground-mounted photovoltaic solar farm is the
primary use the property shall be considered industrial or agricultural for the
purposes of buffer requirements, there are no
requirements for screening from public streets.
      5)   Stormwater Management: Fixed panel solar arrays shall be
considered pervious and the property shall be designed to absorb or detain
specific runoff. The impervious cover calculation shall include the support
posts of the panels, any roads or impervious driveway surfaces, parking areas
and buildings on the site.
      6)   A property developed pursuant to this subsection shall be required to plat however water and
sewer connections shall not be required. Suitable fire department access shall
be required.
      7)   Signage shall conform to the City Sign Regulations.
      8)   Customer owned on-site power lines shall be buried except where
connecting to existing overhead utility lines. This requirement shall not apply
to fiber optic connections.
      9)   Fencing: Due the unique security requirements of this land use, and
to facilitate the educational value of seeing this land use, fencing up to
eight feet in height is permitted provided the fencing material is
predominantly open.
      10)   All state and federal codes and provisions not specified in this
subsection are required including but not limited to tree preservation, traffic
impact analysis and historic preservation.
   C.   Submittal Requirements:
      All Plans shall contain the following:
      1)   These requirements shall apply to the Conditional Use Permit.
      2)   A plot plan, drawn to scale, of the property indicating the total
site acreage, landscape and buffer areas, tree preservation, location of all
structures, the proposed location of the solar panels, the distances of the
solar panels to structures on the property as well as distances to the
property lines.
      3)   The plot plan shall include any roads, electric lines and/
 or overhead utility lines.
      4)   A description of the electrical generating capacity
and means of interconnecting with the electrical grid as coordinated and pre-
approved with the appurtenant power district.
      5)   A copy of the interconnection agreement with the local electric
utility
      6)   Drawings or blueprints of solar panels and arrays in conjunction
with the application for a building permit for a solar farm/solar power plant.
      7)   Structural engineering analysis for a solar panel, array and its
foundation, as applicable.
      8)   Manufacturer's recommended installations, if any; and
      9)   Documentation of land ownership and/or legal authority to construct
on the property.
      10)   A decommissioning plan shall be required to ensure that facilities
are properly removed after their useful life. Decommissioning of solar panels
must occur in the event they are not in use for 12 consecutive months. The plan
shall include provisions for removal of all structures and foundations,
restoration of soil and vegetation and a plan ensuring financial resources will
be available to fully
decommission the site. The City of Kimball reserves the right to require the posting of a bond, letter of
credit or the establishment of an escrow account to ensure
proper decommissioning.
   D.   Compliance with Other Regulations:
      1)   Zoning permit applications for CSCS’s shall be accompanied by a line
drawing of electrical components in sufficient detail to allow for a
determination that the manner of installation conforms to the State’s adopted
electrical code and that has been pre- approved by the associated power
district meeting their Distribution Generation Requirements and Guidelines; and
      2)   This subsection does not waive any requirements of any state or
federal codes, electrical codes or other technical codes as applicable.
   E.   Discontinuation.
      A CSCS shall be considered abandoned after one year without energy production. The solar equipment
owner shall remove all SCS equipment and appurtenances within 90 days of
abandonment.
6.   Large Solar Conversion Systems:
   A.   A Large Solar Facility may be allowed in the TA-
1 Districts under the following conditions:
      1)   The Large Solar Facility shall use photovoltaic cells to convert solar energy into
electricity.
      2)   No electrical substation owned or operated by a private electric
supplier, or any other facility owned or operated by a private electric
supplier to support the generation, transmission or distribution of electricity
for a Large Solar Facility, shall be located as to cause an exceedance of the
following noise level standards.
         a.   From the hours of 10 pm to 7 am: 50 dBA maximum 10-minute LAeq
         b.   From the hours of 7 am to 10 pm: 60 dBA maximum 10-minute LAeq
         For the purposes of determining compliance with these standards, noise
levels shall be measured at the closest exterior wall of any dwelling unit
located on the property that submitted the noise complaint. If an electrical
substation(s) owned or operated by a private electric supplier violates a noise
standard at a dwelling unit constructed after the electrical substation(s) is
approved, then the electrical substation becomes a non-
conforming use. Electrical substations owned by public electric suppliers shall
not be subject to the noise level standards herein.
      3)   Obtain an approved erosion control plan from the Natural Resources
District before receiving building permits.
      4)   The Large Solar Facility shall provide visual screening for adjacent
non-participating residential uses, public park uses, and school uses, through
setbacks as otherwise required in the Kimball Zoning Ordinance and/or other
techniques to address the site-related impacts of the Large Solar Facility on
adjacent non-participating properties.
         a.   The applicant shall use fences, walls, berming, vegetation, or
some combination thereof to provide visual screening. Fencing, walls or berming
may be used to supplement other screening methods but shall not account for
over 50% of the screening. Existing natural features, topography and vegetation
may be used to achieve visual screening if provided in accordance with the
visual screening requirements provided herein.
            i.   If the visual screening is for adjacent non-
participating residential uses, it shall be provided as follows:
               a)   The screen shall only be required if the closest exterior
wall of the dwelling is within 300 feet of the property line adjacent to the
Large Solar Facility.
               b)   If the screen is required, the screen shall cover 100% of
the surface area of a vertical plane extending along the property line adjacent
to the Large Solar Facility at an amount equal to or greater than the surface
area of the dwelling to be visually screened, plus 75 feet in both directions
or until it reaches a public road right-of-way, whichever comes first, and from
the ground to a height of at least eight feet above the adjacent ground.
            ii.   If the visual screening is for adjacent non-participating
public park or school uses, it shall be provided as follows:
               a)   The screen shall cover at least 70% of a vertical plane
extending along the entire property line adjacent to the Large Solar Facility,
from the ground to a height of at least eight feet above the adjacent ground.
         b.   If the visual screening is achieved through a fence or wall, it
shall be provided along the property line as follows:
            i.   Acceptable fence and wall materials for visual screening
include masonry, stone, and wood, but exclude chain link fences (with or
without slats). Alternative fence materials being used for screening must be
approved by the City.
         c.   If the visual screening is achieved through berming, it shall be
provided along the property line as follows:
            i.   The side slopes shall not exceed three to one 
(3 to 1), horizontal to vertical.
            ii.   The mounded ground surface shall be protected to prevent
erosion though the use of turf lawn or other alternative groundcovers.
         d.   If the visual screening is achieved through vegetation, it shall
be provided along the property line as follows:
            i.   At a rate of at least four trees every 100 linear feet. Of the
four trees every 100 linear feet, at least one shall be a deciduous shade tree
and three shall be evergreen or ornamental trees. The trees shall be evenly
distributed within each 100 linear feet section.
            ii.   At least 2/3, but no more than 3/4 of the total ornamental/
evergreen trees along the property line shall be made up of evergreen trees.
            iii.   Each tree shall have a minimum mature height of 15 feet.
         e.   Visual screening is not required along the property line adjacent to a Participating
Property.
      5)   Each application shall have a decommissioning plan (removal of
equipment/improvements and restoration of lands) that is reviewed and approved
by the City prior to beginning operations. The decommissioning plan shall
provide the following:
         a.   A plan outlining the means, procedure, and costs of removing the
Large Solar Facility, including, but not limited to, the solar panels and
collectors, electrical wiring/cabling, fencing, and any related supporting
infrastructure to a minimum depth of three feet.
         b.   At the expense of the permittee, a cost estimate for the
decommissioning of the Large Solar Facility and any estimated resale and
salvage value shall be prepared by a professional engineer. The permittee shall
provide to the City a revised and updated decommissioning cost estimate every
five years from the date of approval to cover the cost of meeting this
obligation. The decommissioning cost estimate shall explicitly detail the cost,
any estimated resale and salvage values, shall account for inflation, cost and
value changes, and advances in decommissioning technologies and approaches.
         c.   The estimated decommissioning cost, less any resale and salvage
value, shall be guaranteed in one of the following forms: (i) surety bond, (ii)
cash to be held in escrow by the City at a bank, or (iii) a letter of credit
from a financial institution reasonably acceptable to the City which shall be
irrevocable unless replaced with cash or other form of security reasonably
acceptable to City. The owner of the Large Solar Facility shall provide the
decommissioning cost guaranty no later than the end of the 15th year of
operation, and shall maintain the financial security
thereafter for as long as the Large Solar Facility is in existence or upon
discontinuance, decommissioning, or abandonment of the Large Solar Facility
Such financial security shall be updated every five years to cover the costs
associated with the updated decommissioning cost estimates.
         d.   For purposes of this Section, discontinuance, decommissioning, or
abandonment shall mean the Large Solar Facility has produced no energy for 12
consecutive months. The owner or operator shall have 12 months to complete
decommissioning of the Large Solar Facility. If the owner or operator of the
Large Solar Facility fails to remove the installation in accordance with the
requirements of this permit or within 12 months following discontinuance,
decommissioning, or abandonment, the City may collect the bond or other
financial security and the City or a hired third party may enter the property
to physically remove the installation.
      6)   The Large Solar Facility shall meet the following setback
requirements:
 
Property Line Setbacks
Non-Participating Property with a Dwelling 100 feet
Non-Participating Property without a Dwelli50 feet
Participating Property with a Dwelling     0 feet
Participating Property without a Dwelling  0 feet
Public or Private Roadway                   50  feet
 
Section 9.24   Small Wind Energy Systems
9.24.01   Purpose
   It is the purpose of this ordinance to promote the safe, effective and
efficient use of small wind energy systems installed to reduce the on-site
consumption of utility supplied electricity.
9.24.02   Definitions
   The following are defined for the specific use of this section.
   Small Wind Energy System shall mean a wind energy conversion system
consisting of a wind turbine, a tower, and associated control or conversion
electronics, which has a rated capacity of not more than 100 kW and which is
intended to primarily reduce on-site consumption of utility power.
   Tower Height shall mean the height above grade of the first fixed portion of
the tower, excluding the wind turbine itself.
9.24.03   Requirements
   Small wind energy systems shall be permitted as an Accessory Use within any
district where the use is listed and allowed. Certain requirements as set forth
below shall be met:
   1.   Tower Height
      A.   For property sizes between ½ acre and one acre the tower height shall be limited to 80
feet.
      B.   For property sizes of one acre or more, there is no limitation on
tower height, except as imposed by FAA regulations.
   2.   Setbacks
      A.   No part of the wind system structure, including guy-wire anchors,
may extend closer than 10 feet to the property lines of the installation site.
   3.   Noise
      A.   Small wind energy systems shall not exceed 60 dBA, as measured at
the closet neighboring inhabited dwelling unit.
      B.   The noise level may be exceeded during short term events such as
utility outages and/or severe wind storms.
   4.   Approved Wind Turbines
      A.   Small wind turbines must
have been approved under the Emerging Technologies program of the California
Energy Commission or any other small wind certification program recognized by
the American Wind Energy Association.
   5.   Compliance with Building and Zoning Codes
      A.   Applications for small wind energy systems shall be accomplished by
standard drawings of the wind turbine structure, including the tower base, and
footings.
      B.   An engineering analysis of the tower showing compliance with
official building code of the governing body and/or the State of Nebraska and
certified by a licensed professional engineer shall also be submitted.
      C.   The manufacturer frequently supplies this analysis.
      D.   Wet stamps shall not be required.
   6.   Compliance with FAA Regulations
      A.   Small wind energy systems must comply with applicable FAA
regulations, including any necessary approvals for installations close to
airports.
   7.   Compliance with National Electrical Code
      A.   Permit applications for small wind energy systems shall be accompanied by a line drawing of the
electrical components in sufficient detail to allow for a determination that
the manner of installation conforms to the National Electrical Code.
      B.   The manufacturer frequently supplies this analysis.
   8.   Utility Notification
      A.   No small wind energy system shall be installed until evidence has
been given that the utility company has been informed of the customer’s intent
to install an interconnected customer-owned generator.
      B.   Off-grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
   9.   Setbacks
      All towers shall adhere to the setbacks established in the following
table:
Wind Turbine – Non Commercial WECS
Wind Turbine – Non Commercial WECS
Property Lines                                        One times the total
                                                      height
Neighboring Dwelling Units                           One times the total
                                                      height
Road Rights-of-Way*                                   One times the tower
                                                      height.
Other Rights-of-Way                                   One times the tower
                                                      height.
Wildlife Management Areas and State Recreational NA
Areas
Wetlands, USFW Types III, IV, and V              NA
Other structures adjacent to the applicant’s siNAs
Other existing WECS not owned by the applicant. NA
River Bluffs
*   The setback shall be measured from any future Rights-of-
Way if a planned change or expanded right-of-Way is known.
Section 9.25   Commercial/Utility Grade Wind Energy Systems
9.25.01   Purpose
   It is the purpose of this regulation to promote the safe, effective and
efficient use of commercial/utility grade wind energy systems (WECS) within the
zoning jurisdiction of the City of Kimball.
9.25.02   Definitions
   The following are defined for the specific use of this section.
   Aggregate Project shall mean projects that are developed and operated in a
coordinated fashion, but which have multiple entities separately owning one or
more of the individual WECS within the larger project. Associated
infrastructure such as power lines and transformers that service the facility
may be owned by a separate entity but are also part of the aggregated project.
   Commercial WECS shall mean a wind energy conversion system of equal to or
greater than 100 kW in total name plate generating capacity.
   Fall Zone shall mean the area, defined as the furthest distance from the
tower base, in which a guyed tower will collapse in the event of a structural
failure. This area is less than the total height of the structure.
   Feeder Line shall mean any power line that carries electrical power from one
or more wind turbines or individual transformers associated with individual
wind turbines to the point of interconnection with the electric power grid, in
the case of interconnection with the high voltage transmission systems the
point of interconnection shall be the substation serving the wind energy
conversion system.
   Meteorological Tower shall mean, for purposes of this regulation, a tower
which is erected primarily to measure wind speed and directions plus other data
relevant to siting a Wind Energy Conversion System. Meteorological towers do
not include towers and equipment used by airports, the Nebraska Department of
Transportation, or other applications to monitor weather conditions.
   Micro-Wind Energy Conversion System
shall mean a Wind Energy Conversion System of 1 kW nameplate generating
capacity or less and utilizing supporting towers of 40 feet or less.
   Public Conservation lands shall mean land owned in fee title by State or
Federal agencies and
managed specifically for conservation purposes, including but not limited to State Wildlife Management
Areas, State Parks, federal Wildlife Refuges and Waterfowl Production Areas.
For purposes of this regulation, public conservation lands will
also include lands owned in fee title by non-profit conservation organizations,
Public conservation lands will also include private lands upon which
conservation easements have been sold to public agencies or non-profit
conservation organizations.
   Rotor Diameter 
shall mean the diameter of the circle described by the moving rotor blades.
   Small Wind Energy System shall mean a wind energy conversion system
consisting of a wind turbine, a tower, and associated control or conversion
electronics, which has a rated capacity of not more than 100 kW and which is
intended to primarily reduce on-site consumption of utility power.
   Substations shall mean any electrical facility to convert electricity
produced by wind turbines to a voltage greater than 35,000 (35,000 KV) for
interconnection with high voltage transmission lines.
   Total Height shall mean the highest point, above ground level, reached by a
rotor tip or any other part of the Wind Energy Conversion System.
   Tower shall mean the vertical structures that support the electrical, rotor
blades, or meteorological equipment.
   Tower Height shall mean the total height of the Wind Energy Conversion
System exclusive of the rotor blades.
   Transmission Line shall mean the electrical power lines that carry voltages
of at least 69,000 volts (69 KV) and are primarily used to carry electric
energy over medium to long distances rather than directly interconnecting and
supplying electric energy to retail customers.
   Wind Energy Conservation System shall mean an electrical generating facility
comprised of one or more wind turbines and accessory facilities, including but
not limited to: power lines, transformers, substations
and meteorological towers that operate by converting the kinetic energy
of wind into electrical energy. The energy may be used on-site or distributed
into the electrical grid.
   Wind Turbines  shall mean
any piece of electrical generating equipment that converts the kinetic energy
of blowing wind into electrical energy using airfoils or similar devices to
capture the wind.
9.25.03   Requirements
Commercial/
Utility Grade wind energy systems shall be permitted as a Conditional Use within any district
where the use is listed and allowed. The following requirements and information
shall be met and supplied:
   1.   The name(s) of the project applicant and project owner.
   2.   The legal description and address of the project.
   3.   A description of the project of the project including Number, type,
name plate generating capacity, tower height, rotor diameter, and total height
of all wind turbines and means of interconnecting with the electrical grid.
   4.   Site layout, including the location of property lines, wind turbines,
electrical grid, and all related accessory structures. This site layout shall
include distances and be drawn to scale.
   5.   Engineer’s certification.
   6.   Documentation of land ownership or legal control of the property.
   7.   The latitude and longitude of individual wind turbines.
   8.   A USGS topographical map, or map with similar data, of the property and surrounding area, including
any other WECS, within 10 rotor distances of the proposed WECS.
   9.   Location of wetlands, scenic, and natural areas within 1,320 feet of the proposed
WECS
   10.   An Acoustical Analysis
   11.   FAA permit
   12.   Location of all known Communication Towers within two miles of the proposed
WECS.
   13.   Decommissioning Plan
   14.   Description of potential impacts on nearby Wind Energy Conversion
Systems and wind resources on adjacent properties.
9.25.04   Aggregated Projects
   1.   Aggregated projects may jointly submit a single application and be reviewed under joint
proceedings, including notices, public hearings, reviews and as appropriate
approvals.
   2.   Permits may be issued and recorded separately.
   3.   Joint projects will be assessed fees as one project.
9.25.05   Setbacks
 Wind Turbine – Commercial/Utility WEMeteorological Towers
                      Wind Turbine – Commercial/Utility WECS                                           Meteorological Towers
                                                                                                          The greater of:
Property Lines        One times the total height.                                                      The fall zone, as certified by a
                                                                                                          professional engineer, + 10 feet or 1.1 times the total height.
Neighboring Dwelling                                                                                     The greater of:
Units*                750 feet                                                                            The fall zone, as certified by a
                                                                                                          professional engineer, + 10 feet or 1.1 times the total height.
Road                                                                                                      The greater of:
Rights-of-Way**       One times the height.                                                             The fall zone, as certified by a professional
                                                                                                          engineer, + 10 feet or one times the total height.
                      The greater of:                                                                    The greater of:
Other Rights-of-Way   The fall zone, as certified by a professional engineer, + 10 feet or one The fall zone, as certified by a professional engineer, + 10 feet or one times
                      total height.                                                                       the total
                                                                                                          height.
Public conservation  600 feet                                                                            600 feet
lands
Wetlands              600 feet                                                                            600 feet
                      The greater of:                                                                    The greater of:
Other structures      The fall zone, as certified by a professional engineer, + 10 feet or one The fall zone, as certified by a professional
                      total height.                                                                       engineer, + 10 feet or one times the total height.
                      To be considered based on:
                      ·   Relative size of the existing and proposed WECS
                      ·   Alignment of WECS relative to the predominant winds
                      ·   Topography
Other existing WECS  ·   Extent of wake interference impacts on existing WECS
                      ·   Property line setback of existing WECS
                      ·   Other setbacks required
                      Waived for internal setbacks in multiple turbine projects including aggregated
                      projects
*
The setback for dwelling units shall be reciprocal in that no dwelling unit shall be constructed within the same distance
required for a commercial/utility Wind Energy Conversion System.
**  The setback shall be measured from any future Rights-of-
Way if a planned change or expanded right-of-Way is known.
9.25.06   Special Safety and Design Standards
All towers shall adhere to the following safety and design standards:
   1.   Clearance of rotor blades or airfoils must maintain a minimum of 12
feet of clearance between their lowest point and the ground.
   2.   All Commercial/Utility WECS shall have a sign or signs posted on the
tower, transformer and substation, warning of high voltage. Other signs shall
be posted on the turbine with emergency contact information.
   3.   All wind turbines, which are a part of a commercial/utility WECS, shall
be installed with a tubular, monopole type tower.
   4.   Consideration shall be given to painted aviation warnings on all towers less than 200
feet.
   5.   Color and finish:
   All wind turbines and towers that are part of a commercial/utility WECS
shall be white, grey, or another non-obtrusive color. Blades may be black in
order to facilitate deicing. Finishes shall be matte or non-reflective.
   6.   Lighting:
   Lighting, including lighting intensity and frequency of strobe, shall adhere
to but not exceed requirements established by the FAA permits and regulations.
Red strobe lights shall be used during nighttime illumination to reduce impacts
on neighboring uses and migratory birds. Red pulsating incandescent lights
should be avoided.
   7.   Other signage:
   All other signage shall comply with the sign regulations found in these
regulations.
   8.   Feeder Lines:
   All communications and feeder lines, equal to or less than 34.5 kV in
capacity, installed as part of a WECS shall be buried, where feasible. Feeder
lines installed as part of a WECS shall not be considered an essential service.
   9.   Waste Disposal:
   Solid and Hazardous wastes, including but not limited to crates, packaging
materials, damaged or worn parts, as well as used oils and lubricants,
shall be removed from the site promptly and disposed of in accordance with all
applicable local, state and federal regulations.
   10.   Discontinuation and Decommissioning:
   A WECS shall be considered a discontinued use after one year without energy
production, unless a plan is developed and submitted to the Zoning
Administrator outlining the steps and schedule for returning the WECS to
service. All WECS and accessory facilities shall be removed to ground level
within 90 days of the discontinuation of use.
   Each Commercial/Utility WECS shall have a Decommissioning plan outlining the
anticipated means and cost of removing WECS at the end of their serviceable
life or upon being discontinued use. The cost estimates shall be made by a
competent party, such as a Professional Engineer, a contractor capable of
decommissioning or a person with suitable expertise or experience with
decommissioning. The plan shall also identify the financial resources that will
be available to pay for decommissioning and removal of the WECS and accessory
facilities.
   11.   Noise:
   No Commercial/Utility WECS shall exceed 50 dBA at the nearest structure or
use.
   12.   Interference:
   The applicant shall minimize or mitigate interference with electromagnetic
communications, such as radio, telephone, microwaves, or television signals
caused by any WECS. The applicant shall notify all communication tower
operators within five miles of the proposed WECS location upon application to
the city/county for permits.
   13.   Roads:
   Applicants shall:
      a.   Identify all county or municipal roads to be used for the purpose of
transporting WECS, substation parts, cement, and/or equipment for construction,
operation or maintenance of the WECS and obtain applicable weight and size
permits from the impacted jurisdictions prior to construction.
      b.   Conduct a pre-construction survey, in coordination with the
appropriate jurisdictions to determine existing road conditions. The survey
shall include photographs and a written agreement to document the condition of
the public facility.
      c.   Be responsible for restoring or paying damages as agreed to by the
applicable jurisdiction sufficient to restore the road(s) and bridges to
preconstruction conditions.
   14.   Drainage System:
   The applicant shall be responsible for immediate repair of damage to public
drainage systems stemming from construction, operation or maintenance of the
WECS.
Article 10: Landscaping and Screening
The purpose and intent of such landscaping is to provide shade and greenery,
soften architectural lines,
provide maximum absorption of surface water and present an attractive appearance. Large parking lots shall
be divided down into sections as appropriate for the type and size of the
development.
Section 10.01 Minimum Landscaping Requirements
Each unenclosed hard surface parking facility over 6,000 square feet shall
provide:
   1.   Interior landscaped area equal to no less than 5 percent of the total paved area of the parking
facility.
   2.   All vision clearance shall be met according to Section 
4.08.
   3.   A landscaping plan must be submitted with an off-
street parking permit application for all hard surface lots.
      A.   Such plan shall be drawn to scale,
      B.   Include the entire lot or tract and
      C.   Show ground covers such as seeded or sodded areas, shade trees, shrubs and any walls or
fences.
      D.   Such areas and facilities as loading docks, trash bins and outside
storage yards shall be screened by such trees, shrubs and fences to the extent
the appearance of the premises from adjacent streets and property is attractive
and pleasing.
      E.   The adequacy of the landscape plan shall be reviewed and determined
by the Zoning Administrator and other City Departments as appropriate.
      F.   An applicant may appeal a denial of a landscape plan to the Board of
Adjustment if they feel the denial is unreasonable and the Board of Adjustment
shall have the final approval or denial authority.
      G.   Compliance with the landscape and screening plan, as approved, is
mandatory and any failure to carry out all details of said plan shall be deemed
a violation of the building permit and inspection procedure.
Section 10.02 Landscaping and Screening in Commercial and Industrial Districts
   1.   Any commercial or industrial district parking facility which
abuts property in a residential district shall provide a fence, wall, landscape
screen, or earth berm not less than four feet in height for the length of the
common boundary.
   2.   A grade change, terrace, or other site feature which blocks the sight
line of headlights into a residential property may satisfy this requirement,
subject to the determination of the Zoning Administrator.
Section 10.03 Lighting Requirements
   1.   Lighting is required for all new off-
street parking lots unless an exemption is given by the Zoning Administrator,
and the purpose of the exemption be filed with the building permit.
   2.   All lighting requirements will be based upon the National Electric Code and the table
below.
General Parking and Pedestrian Area                                       Vehicles Use Area only
Level of Lux                    Footcandles            Uniformity Ratio     Lux                    Footcandles            Uniformity Ratio
Activity  (Minimum on Pavement) (Minimum on Pavement) (Average : Minimum) (Minimum on Pavement) (Minimum on Pavement) (Average : Minimum)
General Parking and Pedestrian Area                                                                     Vehicles Use Area only
Level of Activity              Lux                    Footcandles            Uniformity Ratio             Lux                    Footcandles            Uniformity Ratio
                                (Minimum on Pavement) (Minimum on Pavement) (Average : Minimum)         (Minimum on Pavement) (Minimum on Pavement) (Average : Minimum)
High                            10                     0.9                    4:1                          22                     2                      3:1
Medium                          6                      0.6                    4:1                          11                     1                      3:1
Low*                            2                      0.2                    4:1                          5                      0.5                    4:1
Day                                                                                                        Night
Areas                           Lux (Minimum on        Footcandles (Minimum   Uniformity Ratio (Average : Lux (Minimum on        Footcandles (Minimum   Uniformity Ratio (Average :
                                Pavement)              on Pavement)           Minimum)                     Pavement)              on Pavement)           Minimum)
General Parking and Pedestrian 54                     5                      -                            54                     5                      4:1
areas
Ramps and corners              110                    10                     -                            54                     5                      4:1
Entrance areas                  540                    50                     -                            54                     5                      4:1
*   This recommendation is based on the requirement to maintain security at any time in areas where there is a
low level of nighttime activity.
Section 10.04 Vacant Lots
   A vacant lot is not permitted to be
used as a parking lot unless the code requirements are met for the creations of
off-street parking.
Section 10.05 Exemptions
   All off-street parking lots in existence, on 6/17/2003 shall be considered
prior existing, non-conforming parking lots. These lots shall be allowed to
remain provided the use of the facility for which they are intended does not
change in zoning classification and they are maintained in good condition, free
of all weeds, trash, other debris, and water pools or puddles.
   Additional off-street parking stall be required by expansion, modification,
alteration or change of a use shall meet the newly adopted standards.
***** Article 11: Board of Adjustment *****
Section 11.01 Members, Terms and Meetings
   Pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. §19-908: The Board of Adjustment shall consist
of five regular members, plus one additional member designated as an alternate
who shall attend and serve only when one of the regular
members is unable to attend for any reason, each to be appointed for a term of
three years and removable for cause by the appointing authority upon written
charges and after public hearings. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired
term of any member whose term becomes vacant. One member only of the Board of
Adjustment shall be appointed from the membership of the Planning Commission,
and the loss of membership on the Planning Commission by such member shall also
result in his or her immediate loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment
and the appointment of another Planning Commissioner to the Board of
Adjustment. The first vacancy occurring on the Board of Adjustment shall be
filled by the appointment of a person who resides in the extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction of the City at such time as more than two hundred persons
reside within such area. Thereafter, at all times, at least one member of the
Board of Adjustment shall reside outside of the corporate boundaries of the
City but within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction. The Board of
Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of any ordinance
adopted pursuant to sections 19-901 to 19-914. Meetings of the board shall be
held at the call of the chairperson and at such other times as the board may
determine. Such chairperson, or in his or her absence the acting chairperson,
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of
the board shall be open to the public. The board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately
filed in the office of the board and shall be a public record.
Section 11.02 Appeals to Board, Record of Appeal, Hearings and Stays
   As provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. §19-909 (R.R.S. 1997): Appeals to the Board
of Adjustment may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer,
department, board or bureau of the City affected by any decision of the
administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken within a reasonable time, as
provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with the officer from whom appeal
is taken and with the Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds thereof. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Board of Adjustment, after the notice of the appeal shall have
been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay
would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order
which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of record in
application on notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due
cause shown. The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of the appeal, give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the
parties, in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the
hearing any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
Section 11.03 Powers and Jurisdiction on Appeal
The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
   1.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning ordinance
or any ordinance relating to the location or soundness of structures; and
   2.   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of this
Ordinance, requests for interpretation of any map, or for decisions upon other
special questions upon which the Board is authorized by this Ordinance to pass;
and
   3.   To grant variances, where by reason of exceptional narrowness,
shallowness or shape of a specific piece of property
at the time of enactment of this Ordinance, or by reason of exceptional
topographic conditions or other extraordinary and exceptional situation or
condition of such piece of property, the strict application of any regulation
under this Ordinance would result in peculiar and exceptional practical
difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships upon the owner of such
property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the property, a variance
from such strict application so as to relieve such difficulties or hardship, if
such relief may be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and
without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this Ordinance.
      A.   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it finds
that:
         1.   The strict application of the Ordinance would produce undue hardship;
and
         2.   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity; and
         3.   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
         4.   The granting of such variance is based upon reasons of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit or caprice. No variance shall be authorized
unless the Board finds that the condition or situation of the property
concerned or the intended use of the property is not of so general or recurring
a nature as to make reasonably practicable the formulation of a general
regulation to be adopted as an amendment to this Ordinance.
      B.   In exercising the above mentioned powers, the Board may reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision or
determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of
the officer from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members
of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of any such administrative official, or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this Ordinance
or to effect any variation in this Ordinance.
Section 11.04 Appeals to District Court
   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision of
the Board of Adjustment may appeal as provided by Neb. Rev. Stat. §19-912,
(R.R.S.1997).
Article 12: Amendments and Application Process
Section 12.01 Purpose
   The Amendment Article describes the methods by which changes may be made in the text of the Zoning
Ordinance (text amendment) and/ or the official boundaries of zoning districts
(rezoning).
Section 12.02 Initiation of Amendments
   1.   Text Amendments
      Text amendments may be initiated by an applicant, the Planning Commission, or the City
Council.
   2.   Map amendments
      Map amendments nay be initiated by a property owner or authorized agent, the Planning Commission, or
the City Council
Section 12.03 Amendment Application Requirements
An application for a Rezoning may be filed by the owner(s) of a property or the
owners' authorized agent with the Planning Commission. The application must be
filed, and all plans must be submitted, at least 14 days prior to the scheduled
meeting of the Planning Commission at which the application is to be heard. The
application shall include the following information:
   1.   Name and address of the applicant.
   2.   Owner, address and legal description of the property.
   3.   A description of the reason for the rezoning application and the nature
and operating characteristics of the proposed use.
   4.   Any graphic information, including site plans, elevations, other drawings, or other materials determined
by the Planning Commission to be necessary to describe the proposed use to
approving agencies. The site plan, should be drawn to scale sufficient to
permit adequate review and dimensioned as necessary, showing at least the
following information:
      A.   The date, scale, north point, title, name of owner, and name of person preparing the site
plan.
      B.   The location and dimensions of boundary lines, easements, and
required yards and setbacks of existing and proposed buildings and site
improvements.
      C.   The location, size, and use of proposed and existing structures on the
site.
      D.   The location of all proposed site improvements, including parking
and loading areas, pedestrian
and vehicular access, sewers, sidewalks, utilities, service areas, fencing, screening, landscaping, and lighting.
      E.   Location of any major site feature, including drainage and contours at no greater than five-
foot intervals.
Section 12.04 Amendment Procedures
Regulations, restrictions, and boundaries authorized to be created pursuant to
Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 19-901 to 19-915 may from time to time be amended,
supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed.
   1.   Public Hearing.
      The Planning Commission and City Council shall each hold a public hearing
on any proposed amendment. The Public Hearings shall be held at a reasonable
hour and place for such public hearing, and they shall hold said hearings at
the next regular meeting after proper notification of adjacent property owners.
   2.   Planning Commission Review
      No amendment, supplement, change or modification of this Ordinance,
including the boundaries of any zoning district, shall be made by the City
Council without first the consideration by the City Planning
Commission, the Commission shall submit in writing its recommendations on each amendment, supplement,
change or modification to the City Council. Said recommendations shall include
approval, disapproval, or other suggestions and the reasons thereof, and a
discussion of the effect of each amendment, supplement, change or modification
on the Comprehensive Plan. Said recommendations shall be of an advisory nature
only.
   3.   Notice of Hearings.
      A.   Public notice of hearing on a proposed amendment shall be published
once in the official City newspaper and at least ten days shall elapse between
the date of publication and the date set for such hearing. Such notice shall
state the date, time and place of the hearing and shall contain a statement
regarding the proposed change in regulations or restrictions or the zoning
classification or zoning district boundaries of the property.
      B.   The provisions of Neb. Rev. Stat. §19-904 relative to public
hearings and official notice shall apply equally to all changes or
amendments. In addition to the publication of the notice therein prescribed, a
notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on or near the property on which
action is pending. Such notice shall not be less than 18 inches in height and
24 inches in width with a white or yellow background and black letters not less
than one and one-half inches (1-1/2) in height. Such posted
notice shall be so placed upon such premises that it is easily visible from the
street nearest the same and shall be so posted at least 10 days prior to the
date of such hearing. It shall be unlawful for anyone to remove, mutilate,
destroy, or change such posted notice prior to such hearing. Any person so
doing shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
      C.   If the record title owners of any lots included in such proposed
change be nonresidents of the municipality, then a written notice of such
hearing shall be mailed by certified mail to them addressed to their last-known
addresses at least ten days prior to such hearing.
      D.   At the option of the legislative body of the municipality, in place
of the posted notice provided above, the owners or occupants of the real estate
to be zoned or rezoned and all real estate located within 300 feet of the real
estate to be zoned or rezoned may be personally served with a written notice
thereof at least 10 days prior to the date of the hearing, if they can be
served with such notice within the county where such real estate is
located. Where such notice cannot be served personally upon such owners or
occupants in the county where such real estate is located, a written notice of
such
hearing shall be mailed to such owners or occupants addressed to their last-
known addresses at least 10 days prior to such hearing.
      E.   Pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. §17-1001(4)(a), the City shall provide
notice to the Kimball County Board of Commissioners when proposing to adopt or
amend this zoning regulation, when such proposal affects the extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction (ETJ) of the City, within Kimball County.
         1.   Written notice of the proposed change shall be sent to the county
board or its designee at least thirty days prior to the final decision by the
City.
         2.   The county board may submit comments or recommendations regarding
the change in the zoning regulation at the public hearings on the proposed
change or directly to the City within thirty days after receiving such notice.
         3.   The City may make its final decision 
(i) upon the expiration of the thirty days following the notice or (ii) when
the county board submits comments or recommendations, if any, to the City prior
to the expiration of the thirty days following the notice.
         4.   Protests.
            A.   In case of a protest against such change, signed by
the owners of 20 percent or more either of the area of the lots included in
such proposed change, or of those immediately adjacent on the sides and in the
rear thereof extending 300 feet there from, and of those directly opposite
thereto extending 300 feet from the street frontage of such opposite lots, such
amendment shall not become effective except by the favorable vote of three-
fourths (3/4) of all the members of the legislative body of such municipality.
            B.   The provisions of this section in reference to notice shall
not apply (1) in the event of a proposed change in such regulations,
restrictions, or boundaries throughout the entire area of an existing zoning
district or of such municipality, or (2) in the event additional or different
types of zoning districts are proposed, whether or not such additional or
different districts are made applicable to areas, or parts of areas, already
within a zoning district of the municipality, but only the requirements of Neb.
Rev. Stat. § 19-904 shall be applicable.
Section 12.05 Zoning Administrator
   The provisions of this Ordinance shall be administered and enforced by a
Zoning Administrator as appointed by the City Council, who shall have the power
to make inspection of buildings or premises necessary to carry out his or her
duties in the enforcement of this Ordinance.
Section 12.06 Zoning Permits
The following shall apply to all new construction and all applicable
renovations and remodels within Kimball’s Zoning Jurisdiction:
   1.   It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation for the construction of
any building, or any accessory buildings, or to commence the moving or
alteration of any buildings, including accessory buildings, until the Zoning
Administrator has issued a zoning permit for such work.
   2.   Issuance of a zoning permit.
      A.   In applying to the Zoning Administrator for a zoning permit, the
applicant shall submit a dimensioned sketch or a scale plan indicating the
shape, size and height and location of all buildings to be erected, altered or
moved and of any building already on the lot. They shall also state the
existing and intended use of all such buildings and supply such other
information as may be required by the Zoning Administrator for determining
whether the provisions of this Ordinance are being observed.
      B.   If the proposed excavation or construction as set forth in the
application is in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance, and other
Ordinances of the City then in force, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a
zoning permit for such excavation or construction.
      C.   If a zoning permit is refused, the Zoning Administrator shall state
such refusal in writing, with the cause, and shall immediately thereupon mail
notice of such refusal to the applicant at the address indicated upon the
application.
      D.   The Zoning Administrator shall grant or deny the permit within a
reasonable time from the date the application is submitted. The issuance of a
permit shall, in no case, be construed as waiving any provisions of this
Ordinance.
      E.   A zoning permit shall become void 12 months from the date of
issuance unless substantial progress has been made by that date on the project
described therein.
Section 12.07 Certificate of Zoning Compliance
   No land or building or part thereof hereafter erected or altered in its use
or structure shall be used until the Zoning Administrator shall
have issued a certificate of zoning compliance stating that such land, building or part
thereof, and the proposed use thereof, are found to be in conformity with the
provisions of this Ordinance. Within three days after notification that a
building or premises is ready for occupancy or use, it shall be the duty of the
Zoning Administrator to make a final inspection thereof and to issue
a Certificate of Zoning Compliance if the land, building, or part thereof and
the proposed use thereof are found to conform with the provisions of this
Ordinance, or, if such certification is refused, to state refusal in writing,
with the cause, and immediately thereupon mail notice of such refusal to the
applicant at the address indicated upon the application.
Section 12.08 Penalties
   Pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. §19-913, the owner or agent of a building or
premises in or upon which a violation of any provisions of this Ordinance has
been committed or shall exist or lessee or tenant of an entire building or
entire premises in or upon which violation has been committed or shall exist,
or the agent, architect, building contractor or any other person who commits,
takes part or assists in any violation or who maintains any building or
premises in or upon which such violation shall exist, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed 100 dollars for any
one offense. Each day of non-compliance with the terms of this Ordinance shall
constitute a separate offense.
Section 12.09 Remedies
   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure, or land
is used in violation of Neb. Rev. Stat. §§19-901 to 19-914, or this Ordinance,
or any regulation made pursuant to said sections, the appropriate authorities
of the City may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
conversion, maintenance or use, to restrain, correct, or abate such violation,
to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure or land, or to prevent any
illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about such premises.
Article 13: Legal Status Provisions
Section 13.01 Severability
   Should any article, section or provision of this Ordinance be declared by
the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect
the validity of this Ordinance as a whole, or any part thereof other than the
part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
Section 13.02 Purpose of Catch Heads
   The catch heads appearing in connection with the foregoing sections are
inserted simply for convenience, to serve the purpose of any index and they
shall be wholly disregarded by any person, officer, court or other tribunal in
construing the terms and provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13.03 Repeal of Conflicting Ordinances
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this Ordinance, or
inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance, are hereby repealed to the
extent necessary to give this Ordinance full force and effect.
Section 13.04 Effective Date
   This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage and publication according to
law.
 
ADOPTED AND APPROVED by the Governing Body of Kimball, Nebraska, This       
day of       , 2024.
 
(Seal)
 
ATTEST: ________________________               ________________________
      City Clerk                     Mayor
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-184.png]
 
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
EXHIBIT A
CHAPTER 11. SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
11.01.   Intent.
   The intent
of this section is to assure the orderly subdivision of land and its development, to provide for
the harmonious and economic development of the City, for the coordination of
streets or roads within
subdivision of land with other existing or planned streets or roads, for adequate open spaces, and for the
distribution of population and traffic which will tend to create conditions
favorable to health, safety, convenience, and prosperity.
11.02.   General Construction of Language.
The following general rules of construction apply to the text of this
Ordinance.
   1.   HEADINGS. Section and subsection headings contained herein are provided
for illustrative
purposes only and shall not be deemed to limit, govern, modify, or otherwise affect the scope,
meaning, or intent of any provision of this Ordinance.
   2.   ILLUSTRATION. In the case of any real or apparent conflict between the text of this Ordinance
and any illustration explaining the text, the text shall apply.
   3.   SHALL, MUST, AND MAY. "Shall" and "must" are always mandatory. "May" is
discretionary.
   4.   TENSES AND NUMBERS. Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used
in the singular include the plural, and the plural the singular, unless the
context clearly indicates the contrary.
   5.   CONJUNCTIONS. Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, the following conjunctions
shall be interpreted as follows:
      A.   "And" indicates all connected items or provisions apply.
      B.   "Or" indicates the connected items or provisions may apply singly or in any
combination.
      C.   "Either ... or" indicates the connected items or provisions shall apply singly but not in
combination.
      D.   Referenced Agencies. Unless otherwise indicated, all public officials, bodies, and agencies
referred to in this Ordinance are those of the City of Kimball.
11.03.   Definitions.
For the purpose of these regulations, certain words used herein are defined as
follows:
   1.   ADMINSTRATIVE SUBDIVISION. A subdivision of land which creates no more
than two (2) lots; requires no extension of streets, sewers, utilities, or
other municipal facilities; no dedication of easements or rights-of-
way or annexation; complies with all pre-existing zoning requirements; and has
not been subject to a previous administrative subdivision.
   2.   BOND. Any form of security including a cash deposit, collateral,
property, security bond, or
instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory to the City Council which meets the intent
of such security required by this Ordinance.
   3.   BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT. The transfer of property by deed to a respective owner or owners
of contiguous property for the purpose of adjusting a boundary line and not for
the purpose of creating an additional lot or parcel.
   4.   CITY. The City of Kimball, Nebraska.
   5.   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Kimball, Nebraska.
   6.   CITY ENGINEER. The City Engineer as hired or appointed by the Mayor and City Council or
an authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   7.   CLERK. The City Clerk of the City of Kimball, Nebraska.
   8.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The comprehensive development plan of the City of
Kimball,
Nebraska as adopted by the City Council. The plan shall accommodate anticipated long-
range future growth based upon documented population and economic projections
and meeting the requirements set forth in the Neb. Rev. Stat. §19-903.
   9.   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL. Approval of a subdivision which requires the
subdivider to take
certain specified action to secure complete approval of the subdivision. The Resolution approving
a subdivision shall specify the condition to be met and the time by which the
condition is to be met.
   10.   DEDICATION. The intentional appropriation of land by the landowner to public
use.
   11.   DEVELOPER. See "SUBDIVIDER".
   12.   EASEMENT. A privilege or right of use granted on, above, under, or
across a particular tract of land for a specific purpose by one 
(1) owner to another owner, public or private agency, or utility.
   13.   FINAL APPROVAL. The final official action of the City Council, upon a recommendation by the
Planning Commission, permitting the filing of a subdivision with the
appropriate County Register of Deeds and the conveyance of individual parcels
and lots to subsequent owners. Final approval follows the completion of
detailed engineering plans, negotiation of subdivision agreements, posting of
required guarantees, and other requirements of this Ordinance.
   14.   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry
land areas from:
      A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      B.   The usual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
   15.   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on
which the
Flood Insurance Study has delineated the Flood Hazard Boundaries and the zones establishing
insurance rates applicable to the community.
   16.   FLOOD PLAIN. Any land designated by the Nebraska Natural Resources Commission, or the
Federal Emergency Management Agency that
is susceptible to being inundated by water from any source.
   17.   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must
be reserved to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the
water surface elevation more than one foot.
   18.   FRONTAGE. The length of a property line of any one premise abutting
and parallel to a public street, private way, or court from which access is
permitted.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-186.png]
 
   19.   GREEN SPACE. Land partly or completely covered with grass, trees,
shrubs, or other vegetation.
   20.   IMPROVEMENTS. Street grading, street surfacing and paving, curbs and gutters, streetlights,
street signs, sidewalks, crosswalks, water mains and lines, water meters, fire hydrants, sanitary
sewers, storm drainage facilities, electrical infrastructure, culverts,
bridges, public utilities, or other such installation as designated by the City
Council or its specific approving authority.
   21.   LOT MINIMUM AREA. The minimum or smallest amount of total lot area in a single ownership
necessary to satisfy the physical development standards defined in this
Ordinance.
   22.   LOT SUBDIVISION. The division or combination of one or more previously platted lots on the
same side of a street and in the same block into lots of different size or
width than previously platted.
   23.   MONUMENT. An identification marker established by a registered land surveyor at each section
corner, block corner, lot corner, or other point as required by this Ordinance.
   24.   OPEN SPACE. Any open piece of undeveloped and which has no buildings or other built
structures and is accessible to the public. Open space can include green space.
   25.   OWNER. An individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, or corporation having
sufficient proprietary interest to seek development of land.
   26.   OUT LOT:
 Property shown on a subdivision plat outside of the boundaries of the land which is to
be developed and which is to be excluded from the development of the
subdivision.
   27.   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A right-of-
way or easement dedicated to public use, which cuts across a block to
facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
   28.   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of Kimball, Nebraska.
   29.   PLAT. A document, usually a map or maps, expressing the designation or division of land into
one (1) or more lots or parcels, at least one (1) of which is ten (10) acres or
less.
      A.   SKETCH PLAN. A plan or drawing presented by the Subdivider to
communicate
development concepts and ideas with City Staff before paying for the professional services
needed for platting.
      B.   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A plat indicating the proposed layout of a development and related
information, intended for the purpose of preliminary approval by approving
authorities but not for filing with the appropriate County Register of Deeds.
      C.   FINAL PLAT. The final map of the subdivision which is presented for Final Approval. The
Final Plat contains detailed information and documentation and is designed to
be filed with the appropriate County Register of Deeds.
   30.   REPLAT. The further subdivision of a lot or parcel of land previously subdivided, whether the
further subdivision results in more lots or fewer lots.
   31.   RIGHT-OF-WAY: A strip of land, generally linear, occupied or intended
to be occupied by a system that conveys people, traffic, fluids, utilities, or
energy from one (1) point to another. Rights-of-
way may include streets and roads including roadway easements, crosswalks, bicycle
paths, recreational trails, railroads or fixed guideway transit, electric
transmission lines, gas pipelines, water mains, or sewer mains.
   32.   SETBACK LINE. 
(Also known as BUILDING SETBACK LINE.) The required zoning distance between a
building and the lot line.
   33.   SIDEWALK. A paved path provided for pedestrian use, usually located at the side of and
detached from a road, but within the right-of-way.
   34.   STREET. Land dedicated for public use, from right-of-
way line to right-of-way, which affords a primary means of access to the
abutting property. Streets may be categorized in a hierarchy or conceptual
arrangement of streets based on function.
      A.   ALLEY. A dedicated public right-of-
way, other than a street, which provides only a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
      B.   ARTERIAL STREET. Street or highways intended to provide for through traffic movement
between areas of the City or across the City.
         1.   MAJOR ARTERIALS. Usually imply relatively high speeds and traffic volumes and are
often subject to control of access to individual properties.
         2.   MINOR ARTERIALS. Generally intended to provide trips of moderate
lengths and
imply lower operating speeds and more frequent points of local access than major arterial
streets.
      C.   COLLECTOR STREET. A street connecting neighborhoods within the
same communities, designed to carry traffic from local to arterial streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-188.png]
 
      D.   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one (1) outlet and with an
opposite end providing for the reversal of traffic.
      E.   DEAD-END STREET: A street temporarily having only one (1) outlet for
vehicular traffic and intended to be extended or continued in the future.
      F.   EXPRESSWAY. A major street with
limited access for high traffic speeds and
volumes designed to move traffic around the City rather than through it.
      G.   FRONTAGE STREET: Minor streets
which are parallel to and adjacent to major streets or highways and provide
access to the abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
      H.   LOCAL STREET. A street which is used primarily for access to the
abutting properties.
      I.   LOOPED STREET. A continuous local street without intersecting
streets and having its two outlets connected to the same street.
      J.   STREET, CURVILINEAR. A street which deviates from straight alignment
and changes direction without sharp corners or bends.
      K.   STREET, PRIVATE. An open, unoccupied space, other than a street or
alley dedicated to the public, but permanently established as the principal
means of vehicular access to abutting properties.
         Cul-de-sac
         Dead-end Street
         Frontage Street
         Looped Street
   35.   STREET, DESIGNED. A future street designated on the Comprehensive
Development Plan to
ensure traffic carrying capacity between neighborhoods, connections between neighborhoods and
major activity centers, and accommodation of major through traffic. Such
streets may be designated as collectors, arterials, or expressways with the
tentative location of the street shown on the Transportation Plan included in
the City's Comprehensive Development Plan.
   36.   SUBDIVIDER. an individual, firm, association, corporation, trust, or any other legal entity
commencing proceedings under this Ordinance to affect a subdivision of land.
   37.   SUBDIVISION. The dividing or merging of lots, tracts, or parcels into different lots, tracts,
parcels, or other units of land for title transfer or development, when one (1)
or more of the resultant lots is equal to ten (10) acres or less.
   38.   SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT. An agreement between a subdivider and the City
which clearly establishes the subdivider’s responsibility regarding project
phasing, the provision of public and
private facilities and improvements, and any other mutually agreed
upon terms and requirements.
   39.   TURNAROUND. A surfaced area for the turning of vehicles at the end of a temporary dead-
end street or road.
   40.   VARIANCE: A relaxation of the terms of the Subdivision Ordinance where
such variance will
not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and
not the result of the actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the
Ordinance would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
   41.   ZONING DISTRICT. A designated specified land classification, within which all sites are subject
to a unified group of use and site development regulations set forth in this
Ordinance.
      A.   ZONING BASE DISTRICT. A district established by this Ordinance which prescribes basic
regulations governing land use and site development standards. No more than one
(1) Base Zoning District shall apply to any individually platted lot or parcel.
      B.   ZONING OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district established by this Ordinance to prescribe
special regulations to be applied to a site only in combination with a base
district.
   42.   ZONING ORDINANCE. The Zoning Ordinance of the City of Kimball, and all updates to the
Zoning Ordinance adopted by City Council Ordinance.
   43.   ZONING PERMIT. A permit required by the City and issued by the City Administrator or their
designee to be obtained by any person engaged in any activity governed by the
regulations set forth in this Ordinance.
11.04.   Applicability.
   1.   These regulations shall apply to all land located within the corporate boundary of the City and all
land located within the one-mile extraterritorial zoning boundary of the City.
   2.   Each separate principal use building within the planning area of the City shall be situated on a
separate and single subdivided lot of record.
   3.   No subdivision of land, except those hereinafter exempted, shall be permitted within the City
Planning Area unless a plat is approved in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance.
   4.   These Regulations shall apply not only to subdivision as herein set
forth but shall also apply,
insofar as payment of costs for improvement of subdivision is concerned, to those subdivisions,
or parts thereof, already platted and approved, which are undeveloped, wholly
or partially.
11.05.   Interpretation, Conflict, and Severability.
   1.   These regulations shall be held to provide the minimum requirements necessary for the promotion
of the public health, safety, and welfare. If any provision conflicts with
any other provision of the Zoning Ordinance, any other Ordinance of the City of
Kimball, or any applicable state or federal law, the more restrictive provision
shall apply.
   2.   Nothing in these provisions shall relieve any property owner or user from satisfying any condition
or requirement associated with a previous approval, special
permit, variance, development permit, or other permit issued under any local,
state, or federal ordinance or statute.
11.06.   Exemptions.
These regulations shall not apply in the following instances:
   1.   The division of land for agricultural purposes into parcels or tracts of more than ten 
(10) acres and not involving any new streets or easements of access.
   2.   Land used for adjusting street or railroad right-of-way, a drainage
easement or other public
utilities subject to local, state or federal regulations, where no new
street or easement of access is involved.
   3.   Any transfer of title by operation of eminent domain or court ordered partition or
decree.
11.07.   Fees.
   All fees regarding the subdivision procedure shall be set by a separate ordinance.
Subdivider shall be responsible for all review and inspection fees regarding a
subdivision.
11.08.   Procedure.
   Any person, partnership, or corporation intending to subdivide land within the city’s planning
jurisdiction shall submit plans and plats as required by and specified by this
Ordinance to City Staff, the Planning Commission and the City Council for
review and approval. Application requirements and procedures are listed below:
   1.   Administrative Subdivision.
   The intent of this section is to provide for lot subdivisions, lot
combinations, and boundary adjustments which result in not more than two
lots without having to re-plat said lot, provided
that the resulting lots shall not again be divided without re-
platting. The City Administrator or their designee shall review the
administrative plat application and make a final determination. The City
Administrator or their designee may approve or disapprove administrative plats
in accordance with the following regulations.
      A.   Requests for an Administrative Plat approval shall be made by the
owner or a designated representative of the land to the
City Administrator or their designee. Two (2) copies of the Administrative Plat
shall include the following:
         1.   A survey of the lot(s).
         2.   Location and precise nature of any structures located thereon, if
any.
         3.   Location and dimensions of the proposed administrative plat.
         4.   A notarized surveyor’s statement signed and acknowledged by a registered land
surveyor.
         5.   A signature block for the Kimball County Register of Deeds, pursuant to Section
11.08.1.A.5.B.
         6.   A signature block for the Kimball County Surveyor, pursuant to Section 
11.08.1.A.5.B.
         7.   A signature block for the Kimball County Treasurer stating there are no regular or special
taxes due or delinquent against the platted land, pursuant to Section
11.08.1.A.5.B.
         8.   A signature block for the approval and signature of the
City Administrator or their designee and the Mayor and attested to by the City
Clerk, pursuant to Section
11.08.1.A.5.B.
      B.   Disapproval of administrative plats shall be based on the following
guidelines:
         1.   A new street or alley is needed or proposed.
         2.   Vacations of streets, alleys, setback lines, access control or easements are required or
proposed.
         3.   Such action will result in significant increases in service
requirements or will interfere with maintaining existing service levels.
         4.   There is less street right-of-
way than required by this Ordinance or the Comprehensive Plan unless such
dedication can be made by separate instrument.
         5.   All easement requirements have not been satisfied.
         6.   Such action taken during an administrative plat will result in a tract without direct access
to a street.
         7.   A substandard-sized lot or parcel will be created.
         8.   The lot has been previously split in accordance with this
Ordinance.
      C.   No Administrative Plats shall be approved unless all required public improvements have been
installed, no new dedication of public right-of-way or easements is involved,
and such subdivision complies with the ordinance requirements concerning
minimum areas and dimensions of such lots.
      D.   Prior to the approval of the administrative plat, the subdivider
shall provide a statement from the County Treasurer's office showing there are
no tax liens against said land within the proposed subdivision or any part
thereof. The subdivider shall also provide a statement from
the County Treasurer's office showing all special assessment installment payments are current
as applied to said proposed subdivision or any part thereof. All taxes shall be
paid in full on all real property dedicated to a public use.
      E.   The City Administrator or their designee
shall, in writing; either approve the Administrative Plat with or without
conditions or disapprove the Administrative Plat and state the reasons thereof,
within a reasonable time of application.
      F.   After approval from the City Administrator or their designee all copies must be certified by
all applicable parties and two
(2) copies filed with the City prior to the issuance of a zoning permit.
   2.   Pre-Application Procedure.
      A.   Before filing a preliminary plat the subdivider shall consult with
the City Administrator or
their designee for advice regarding general requirements affecting the proposed development.
         1.   A sketch of the proposed subdivision drawn on the topographical survey map shall be
submitted.
         2.   The subdivider shall also submit a location map showing the relationship of the proposed
subdivision to existing or platted streets and arterials and existing community
facilities.
      B.   The City Administrator or their designee
shall inform the subdivider of the requirements pertaining to the proposed
subdivision as such requirements are established by these Regulations.
      C.   The pre-
application procedure does not require formal application, fee, or filing of plat with
the City Administrator or their designee.
   3.   Subdivider shall submit an application for a change of zone 
(if required) as outlined in the Zoning Ordinances for the City of Kimball.
   4.   Preliminary Plat & Application Contents.
   The subdivider shall submit to the City Administrator or their designee
five (5) copies of the
preliminary plat and supplemental material specified with written application for conditional
approval. Said complete submittal shall occur at least 21 calendar days prior
to the regular
meeting of the Planning Commission at which the request will be heard and shall include the
following.
      A.   A vicinity map shall be submitted showing the following:
         1.   The perimeter outline of the proposed subdivision. The location of all existing and
proposed accesses to the proposed subdivision.
         2.   The location and name of all roads and highways within five hundred feet 
(500’) of the perimeter of the proposed subdivision.
         3.   The perimeter outline and identification of subdivisions, zoning districts, and any special
districts within five hundred feet (500’) of the perimeter of the proposed
subdivision.
         4.   The perimeter outline and identification of any floodplains or floodways within five
hundred feet (500’) of the perimeter of the proposed subdivision.
         5.   Plans for the development of the entire area if the proposed plat
is a portion of a larger
holding intended for subsequent development, including preliminary engineering plans
for all improvements for the entire holding.
      B.   A preliminary plat shall be submitted at a scale of 1"=100' showing the
following:
         1.   Name of subdivision, owners of the property and legal
description.
         2.   Name and address of subdivider.
         3.   Name of person(s) who prepared plat, and data thereof.
         4.   Name of the engineer, landscape architect or surveyor.
         5.   Names of utility companies to be involved.
         6.   North arrow, scale, graphic scale, and date prepared.
         7.   Sheet Number and total number of sheets. Name of subdivision on each
sheet.
         8.   The location and dimension in feet for property lines, lot lines, and building setback
lines.
         9.   Names and dimensions of all existing and proposed streets, rights-
of-way, sidewalks and trails and pavement widths within subdivision and two
hundred feet (200') thereof, with access route depictions showing:
            1.   Right-of-way widths 
(according to current Comprehensive Plan and street design standards)
            2.   Paving width 
(according to current Comprehensive Plan and street design standards)
            3.   Length of cul-de-sacs and turn-around diameter
            4.   Approximate grades
            5.   Tangent length
            6.   Angle of intersection
            7.   Curve data and interior angle
            8.   Street name or number
         10.   The locations and sizes of existing and proposed utility lines,
including water and sewer lines, and any other utility installations, including
underground natural gas, electrical, or
telephone lines adjacent to within the proposed subdivision, or the locations of the nearest
available such utilities.
         11.   Existing and proposed topographic contours (preliminary grading
plan) at two (2) foot intervals if the average slope is less than five 
(5) percent and at five (5) foot intervals if the average slope is five (5)
percent or more.
         12.   Estimates and type of temporary erosion control measures necessary to control erosion
during construction if subdivision is one acre or greater.
         13.   The location of existing tree
clusters and trees with trunks nine (9) inches in diameter or greater measured
two feet above the ground.
         14.   An indication of any area subject to flooding as determined by flood hazard insurance
maps of the jurisdiction.
         15.   Location and dimensions of any proposed sites, parks, or other lands reserved or required
to be reserved for public use in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan and
these subdivision regulations.
         16.   Proposed and existing easements, dedications, and reservations of
land.
         17.   Total acreage of land to be subdivided and square feet in each lot, with total lot acreage
meeting requirements set forth in specific district regulations.
         18.   Minimum building setback lines.
         19.   A legend stating the total acreage, the number of lots, a computation of lot density, and
the total lineal feet of streets and alleys.
      C.   Additional information to be submitted with the Preliminary Plat shall include the
following:
         1.   A description of the types of uses proposed for the subdivision.
         2.   A summary explaining how the developer will address any problems or concerns that
were identified in the sketch plan.
         3.   A statement describing the ownership, function, and maintenance of any open space or
park within the proposed subdivision.
         4.   A description of the proposed water system accompanied by an estimate of the total
gallons of water per day required for domestic use and emergency fire
protection.
         5.   A description of the proposed sewage disposal system and gallons per day of estimated
sanitary waste to be created.
         6.   A preliminary drainage report, including calculations of the
quantity of storm water runoff of the proposed tract before development and a
preliminary estimate of the location and amount of storm water runoff after
full development of the site, including
the location and direction of proposed surface water drainage shown on the preliminary
grading plan, as well as the size and capacity of any proposed detention or
retention areas.
         7.   A certified accurate survey by engineer or professional land
surveyor.
         8.   The proposed method of financing with an estimate of the
infrastructure construction
costs related to the proposed subdivision. Cost estimates shall include, but not limited to
the following:
            1.   Streets and related facilities.
            2.   Water distribution systems.
            3.   Storm drainage facilities.
            4.   Sewage collection systems.
            5.   Other utilities and infrastructure as may be required.
         9.   A list of any covenants, grants of easements, and restrictions imposed upon any land,
buildings, and structures within the proposed subdivision.
         10.   A certified list of the names, addresses, and the corresponding
parcel identification numbers assigned by the Kimball County Assessor to the
owners of property of the surface estate within three hundred feet 
(300’) of the property subject to the application. The applicant shall certify
that such list was assembled within thirty (30) days of the application
submission date.
   5.   Final Plat Application & Contents:
      The preliminary plat must be approved by the City Council before a final plat can be submitted. A
final plat shall be submitted for approval within one year of the date a
preliminary plat has been approved by the City Council unless an extension of
time is granted by the City Council within the one year’s time. The final plat
shall conform to the approved preliminary plat. The Council may approve a
modified final plat if changes reflect improvements in design and do not
reflect a relaxation or reduction in requirements from the preliminary plat.
      A.   The final plat shall be submitted with the information required in the preliminary plat and in
addition the following information:
         1.   Two (2) reproducible mylar copies and one 
(1) reduced 11x17 copy mylar. All with final signatures in black ink.
         2.   One (1) paper copy of the plat, one 
(1) electronic pdf copy, and one electronic CAD copy of the plat.
         3.   One (1) reduced copy of the plat 8 ½” x 14” in size with three 
(3) inches of blank space on the short side of the paper.
         4.   Location by specific legal description indicating boundary lines with accurate lengths,
angle and bearing, based upon an accurate traverse, boundary lines having been
determined by a balanced and closed survey conducted in the field.
         5.   Tract boundary lines, rights-of-
way of all streets, alleys and other rights-of-way, property lines of all lots
and other sites with dimensions given in feet and hundredths of a foot.
         6.   Location, dimension in feet 
(and hundredths of a foot) of all easements together with the purpose for each.
         7.   Radii, central angles, tangents, lengths of arcs, curvature angles at street intersections,
and a complete street traverse of each street within and on the perimeter of
the plat.
         8.   Accurate location, size and type, and material of all monuments,
an indication whether such monuments were found or set, and the elevation of at
least one such monument based on USGS datum.
         9.   All lot and block numbers.
         10.   Accurate outlines of any area to be dedicated or reserved for
public use, dedicated areas
for storm water management or acquisition with the purposes indicated thereon, and any
area to be reserved by covenant or deed restriction for the common use by the owners of
the subdivision.
      B.   Additional information to be submitted with the Final Plat shall include the
following:
         1.   A storm water management plan providing quantities of surface drainage and methods for
complying with engineering standards.
         2.   A statement indicating if on-
street parking will be permitted within the proposed subdivision.
         3.   If the applicant is to dedicate land for schools, roads, parks, or other public purposes, a
letter of intent from the appropriate public agency stating it will accept the
lands to be dedicated.
         4.   A list of any covenants, grants of easement, and restrictions imposed upon any land,
buildings and structures within the proposed subdivision.
         5.   A copy of a Nebraska Department of
Transportation access permit if a new street intersects with a state highway.
         6.   A certificate from the County Treasurer showing no delinquent taxes for the final
plat area.
         7.   A title commitment or a title option covering all public
dedications.
         8.   A warranty deed, if required, deeding to the appropriate entity any lands to be used for
the benefit of the public or owners of this subdivision.
         9.   The final plat shall contain the following certificates and
seals:
            1.   Certificate of Dedication, Ownership, and Maintenance:
Know all persons by those present that ____________ being the Owner
(s), Mortgage or
Lienholder of certain lands in Kimball County, Nebraska, described as follows:
Beginning    containing    acres, more or less, have by these
presents laid out, platted, and subdivided the same into lots and blocks, as shown
on this plat, under the name and style of and do hereby dedicate to the public,
school district, owners and future owners of this subdivision all ways, public
rights-of-ways, easements, parks and open space, and other public right-of-way
and easements for purposes shown hereon.
Executed this    day of    , 20   .
_________________________________________
(Owner, Mortgagee, or Lienholder)
The foregoing dedication was acknowledged before me this _____________ day of
   , 20   .
My Commission expires      
Notary Public
 
Witness my hand and seal
            2.   Surveying Certificate:
 
I,             , a registered Professional Land Surveyor in the State of
Nebraska do hereby certify that the survey represented by this plat was made
under my personal
supervision and checking. I further certify that the survey and this plat complies with
all applicable rules, regulations, and laws of the State of Nebraska.
By:           Registered Land Surveyor      Date
            3.   Certificate of Approval by the City Council:
This plat is approved by the City Council of
the City of Kimball, Nebraska. Approval of this plat does not constitute
acceptance of any dedication. Witness my hand and the corporate seal of
Kimball, Nebraska this    day of    , 20   .
Mayor, City of Kimball, Nebraska ATTEST:
By:       Dated:     Kimball City Clerk
   6.   Vacation of Plat.
      A.   An owner or owners of a plat may make application to the Planning Commission to vacate
any plat under the following conditions:
         1.   The Plat to be vacated is a duly recorded Final Plat or Replat.
         2.   The vacation of the subdivision will not interfere with
development of, nor deny access
via public thoroughfare to, adjoining properties or utility services or other improvements.
      B.   Procedure:
         1.   The owner shall present a proposal to the Planning Commission, containing the legal
description of the subdivision and calling for vacation thereof.
         2.   The Planning Commission shall study the proposal and shall send recommendations to
the City Council.
         3.   The City Council shall approve or deny the proposal.
            1.   If the proposal is approved (approved by ordinance), it shall
then be recorded in the
office of the Kimball County Register of Deeds. The subdivider shall pay all fees for
the recording of such vacation.
            2.   If the proposal is disapproved, the City Council shall state which of the reasons stated
in
11.08.6.A require such disapproval.
         4.   The applicant shall be allowed to submit a new application upon proving the reason or
reasons for disapproval have been corrected.
   7.   Replat Process.
      A.   The Planning Commission may waive the separate submission
requirements for the Preliminary and Final Plats to
expedite the subdivision review process if, in the judgement of the Planning
Commission, all the following conditions are met:
         1.   The previous preliminary and final plats have been vacated following the procedures
outlined in this Ordinance.
         2.   The Replat results in ten (10) or fewer lots.
         3.   The Replat does not conflict with the intent of these
regulations.
         4.   A separate submission will not serve the public interest and
a Replat will not conflict.
      B.   Replats shall:
         1.   Be discussed with the Planning Commission at a scheduled pre-
application Conference.
         2.   Be submitted to the City Clerk at least 21 days prior to the next regular meeting of the
Planning Commission at which request is to be heard.
         3.   Be accompanied by the applications fees and completed application forms as
required.
         4.   Follow the procedure set forth for herein and contain the required Preliminary and Final
Plat information.
      C.   Disapproval of Replats shall be based on the following guidelines:
         1.   A new street or alley is needed or proposed.
         2.   Vacations of streets, alleys, setback lines, access control or easements are required or
proposed.
         3.   Such action will result in significant increases in service requirements or will interfere
with maintaining existing service levels.
         4.   There is less street right-of-
way than required by this Ordinance or the Comprehensive Development Plan
unless such dedication can be made by separate instrument.
         5.   All easement requirements have not been satisfied.
         6.   Such action taken during a replat will result in a tract without direct access to a
street.
         7.   A substandard-sized lot or parcel will be created.
      D.   Changes required by the Planning Commission, during the Planning
Commission’s public hearing, shall be made prior to submission to the City
Council. Replats shall be submitted to the City Clerk prior to the start of
construction and at least 15 days prior to the next regular meeting of the City
Council. The City Council shall review and act on the Replat at a public
hearing. Notice for such hearing shall be posted at least 10 days prior to the
hearing in a paper of general circulation in the City of Kimball. The City
Council shall, in writing; either approve the Replat with or without conditions
or disapprove the Replat and state the reasons thereof.
11.09.   Public Hearing & Notification Process.
   The City shall conduct the following public hearings and provide the following notifications related to
requests for subdivisions:
   1.   The property to be subdivided will be posted according to State
Statute.
   2.   Notification will be mailed to all property owners within three hundred feet of the proposed
subdivision setting forth a description of such subdivision, all scheduled
hearing dates and describing the process to accept public comment.
   3.   The Kimball County Planning Commission shall be given at least thirty 
(30) calendar days to review and comment on all plats located beyond the
corporate boundary of the City.
   4.   The board of education shall be given ten 
(10) day notice of all proposed subdivisions requiring a public hearing.
   5.   The Board of Public Works shall be given ten 
(10) day notice of all proposed subdivisions requiring a public hearing.
   6.   A public hearing will be held by the
City of Kimball Planning Commission followed by a public
hearing held by the city council upon receiving the recommendation of the planning commission
regarding all proposed preliminary and final plats not herein exempted.
11.10.   General Guidelines.
   General considerations to be used by the Planning Commission and the City Council in evaluating and
allowing a proposed subdivision.
   1.   Demand for the type of uses at the site in question.
   2.   Effect upon adjacent land uses.
   3.   Potential for traffic congestion or traffic hazards.
   4.   General suitability of the site in question for the development
proposed.
   5.   The development proposed shall conform to the zoning regulations for the zoning district in
which it lies.
   6.   The development proposed shall be in harmony with the City’s Comprehensive Development
Plan.
   7.   The development shall meet the general intent of Section 
11.11: Design Guidelines. of this Ordinance.
   8.   Each lot in a subdivision shall abut a public street unless otherwise recommend by the Planning
Commission and on exception approved by the City Council.
   9.   All subdivision designs shall indicate that consideration was given for economic aspects of
maintenance of safe, convenient, comfortable and attractive community
facilities.
   10.   After the effective date of these regulations, no newly subdivided lot shall have access to an
arterial road as such road is indicated in the Comprehensive Plan.
11.11.   Design Guidelines.
   Design and improvement considerations to be evaluated by the Planning Commission and City Council
for proposed subdivisions.
   1.   Electrical and Communication Utility Lines:
      A.   All electric and communication utility lines, such as telephone and cable T.V., and services
and all street lighting circuits shall be installed underground, except for the
following:
         1.   Transformers, switching boxes, terminal boxes, meter cabinets,
pedestals, ducts, and other facilities necessarily appurtenant to
such underground and street lighting facilitates.
         2.   All facilities reasonably necessary to connect underground facilities to existing or
permitted overhead or aboveground facilities.
         3.   Existing and new overhead electric transmission and distribution feeder lines and
overhead communication long distance, trunk and feeder lines.
         4.   Lines for which, in the opinion of the Planning Commission,
underground installation is
infeasible or too costly. Poles for permitted overhead lines shall be placed in rear lot line
easements.
         5.   It shall not be necessary to remove or replace existing utility facilities used or useful
in serving the subdivision.
      B.   Deviations from requirements, other than those listed above, shall be permitted only with the
approval of the City Council who shall make such approval only in cases of
extreme difficulty.
   2.   Sidewalks.
      A.   Sidewalks shall be constructed within a subdivision where required by the City
Council.
      B.   Sidewalks shall have a minimum width of five 
(5) feet when offset is at least three (3) feet from back of curb. When
sidewalks are offset less than three (3) feet from back of curb, minimum
sidewalk width shall be six (6) feet.
      C.   The City may require wider minimum sidewalk widths in accordance with the Master Trail
Plan. When required, additional costs for the excess width will be negotiated
between the Subdivider and the City.
   3.   Streets.
   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all
streets shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan and shall be considered in
their relation to existing and planned streets, to
topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation to the
proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets. All streets shall meet
applicable AASHTO standards and shall conform to the minimum design standards
set by the Nebraska Board of Public Roads Classification and Standards.
      A.   Street names shall have the names of existing streets when they are
aligned.
      B.   Right-of-
way, street grade, and paving design shall be in conformance with minimum
standards in Schedule A, as approved by the City Engineer.
Schedule A: Minimum Street Standards
               Minimum      Minimum     Minimum                 Minimum
Street         Right-of-Way Pavement    Number of Maximum Grade Centerline
Classification (ft.)        Width (ft.) Traffic   (%)           Radius (ft.)
                                        Lanes
               Minimum      Minimum     Minimum                 Minimum
Street         Right-of-Way Pavement    Number of Maximum Grade Centerline
Classification (ft.)        Width (ft.) Traffic   (%)           Radius (ft.)
                                        Lanes
Major Arterial 100          45          4         6             510
Minor Arterial 100          45          4         6             510
Collector      80           39          2         8             200
Local          60           32          2         10            100
Frontage       50           25          2         10            100
Cul-de-sac     60           50          2         10            200
Radius
Turnaround     20           20          2         -             -
Alley
      C.   Consideration shall be given to street and right-of-
way widths such that minimum sidewalk requirements are maintained.
      D.   Arterial streets and collector streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed system of streets and highways.
      E.   No subdivision shall prevent the extension of arterial and collector
streets through and beyond the subdivision in a direction away from
the center of a nearby City. The subdivider
may plat and design the collector streets not extended on the Comprehensive Plan subject to
approval of the Planning Commission.
      F.   Minor streets shall be designed to conform to the topography, to
discourage use by through
traffic, to permit the design of efficient storm and sanitary sewer systems; and to require the
minimum street area necessary to provide safe and convenient access to abutting
property.
      G.   Cul-de-sac streets designed to have one end permanently closed shall
not exceed 600 feet in length and shall be posted as a non-through street. The
terminating end of a cul-de-sac shall have a turn-around with a minimum right-
of-way radius which conforms with the minimum design standards in Schedule A.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-190.png]
 
      H.   The Planning Commission and City Council may require dedicated
passage (alleys) in commercial and industrial districts for off-
street loading and service access.
      I.   Local streets may be designed for extension beyond the subdivision shown on the Preliminary
Plat submitted for approval, unless the adjoining land is land locked without
road access, or for some other reason access is desired by the Planning
Commission or City Council.
      J.   Curves in Streets -Horizontal and Vertical:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a770696b64f24c16d43c45abfb2fa65591792253/
IMAGES/0-0-0-192.png]
 
         1.   A tangent at least one hundred (100)
feet long shall be introduced between reverse curves on arterial and collector
streets.
         2.   Where there is a deflection angle of more than ten (10) degrees
in the alignment of a street, a curve with a radius adequate to ensure safe
sight distance, as outlined by the Nebraska Department of Transportation, shall
be made.
         3.   Every change in grade shall be connected by a vertical curve
constructed so as to afford a minimum sight distance of two hundred (200) feet,
said sight distance being measured from a driver's eyes, which are assumed to
be four and one-half (4 1/2) feet above the pavement surface, to an object four
(4) inches high on the pavement. Profiles of all streets,
showing natural and finished grades, drawn to an approved scale, may be
required.
         4.   Intersection of Streets.
            A.   Streets shall intersect each other at
as nearly as possible at an angle of 90 degrees as topography and other
limiting factors of good design permit.
            B.   The number of streets converging at one intersection shall be reduced to a minimum,
preferably not more than two.
            C.   Arterial Streets shall not be intersected by local streets or
alleys.
            D.   The number of intersections along community arterials or
highways shall be held to a
minimum. Wherever practicable the distance between such intersections shall not be less than
1,000 feet.
            E.   Where a subdivision fronts on an arterial street, the Planning
Commission shall, where
possible, require frontage roads. Where lots back up to an arterial street
and such lots have access by means other than the arterial street, a frontage
road may not be required.
            F.   Access onto any street intersecting an arterial street shall be located no closer to the right-
of-way of such arterial street than 75 feet, or more at the discretion of the
City Engineer.
            G.   Street jogs with center lines offset less than 150 feet shall be
avoided.
            H.   All right-of-
way lines at intersections with arterial streets shall have a corner radius of not
less than 25 feet.
            I.   Street curb intersections shall be rounded by radii of at least 20 feet. Larger intersection radii
may be required in industrial or commercial area or when directed by the City
Engineer. When the smallest angle of intersection is less than 75 degrees, a
larger curb radius may be required at the discretion of the City Engineer.
         5.   Easements.:
            A.   Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall be provided for utilities where
necessary and shall be at least ten (10) feet wide. Lot dimensions should be
increased to accommodate development, when necessary.
            B.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a water course, drainage
way, channel, or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or
drainage right-of-way conforming substantially
with the lines of such water course, and such further width or construction, or both, as will be
adequate for the purpose. Parallel streets or parkways may be required in
connection therewith.
         6.   Blocks.
            A.   The length, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be suited to the planned use of the land, zoning
requirements, need for convenient access, control, and safety of street
traffic, and the limitations and opportunities of topography. Block lengths in
residential areas shall not as a general rule exceed 600 feet in length between
street lines unless dictated by exceptional topography or other limiting
factors of good design.
            B.   Pedestrian ways or crosswalks, not less than ten (10) feet
in width, shall be provided near the center and entirely across the block
600 feet or more in length where deemed essential, in the opinion of the
Planning Commission, to provide adequate pedestrian circulation or access to
schools, shopping centers, churches or transportation facilities. Said
pedestrian ways shall be dedicated to the public use unless other written
agreement, deed restriction, etc., guarantees maintenance. To the extent
practical subdivision design should give high priority to the convenience and
safety of the pedestrian.
         7.   Lots.
            A.   The size, shape, and orientation of the lots shall be
appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for the type of development
and use contemplated. The lots should be
designed to provide an aesthetically pleasing building site and proper architectural setting for
the building contemplated.
            B.   Minimum lot dimensions for "Residential" type subdivisions shall conform to the
requirements of the City Zoning Regulations.
            C.   Where residential lots border a railroad right-of-
way the depth of adjacent lots shall be increased by at least 25 feet more than
the otherwise required minimum.
11.12.   Required Improvements.
   The following subdivision improvement are required by the City of Kimball:
   1.   General Requirements.
      A.   The subdivider shall design and construct improvements using standards
not less than the standards outlined in this Ordinance. All such plans shall be
approved by the Planning Commission and City Council upon recommendation of the
City Engineer.
      B.   The work shall be done under the supervision and inspection of the
City and shall be completed within the time limitations established herein. The
minimum requirements for
materials shall be in accordance with the standard specifications of the City currently in force
or as approved by the City Engineer.
      C.   All inspection costs and costs for required tests shall be paid by the
subdivider.
   2.   Curbs and Gutters:
      A.   Curbs and gutters shall be required for all streets within the boundaries of the subdivision
unless excepted by the Commission in accordance with the terms of this
Ordinance.
      B.   Curbs and gutters shall be designed and constructed in accordance with standard
specifications of the City.
   3.   Culverts.
      Culverts shall be constructed and installed whenever necessary as determined by the Commission
to provide adequate drainage in accordance with recommendations of the City
Engineer.
   4.   Drainage.
      A drainage system shall be designed and constructed by the subdivider to provide for the proper
drainage of surface water of the subdivision and the drainage area of which it
is a part. The following requirements and improvement plans shall be provided:
      A.   Drainage Report:
      A subdivision plat other than an administrative subdivision, as herein
de?ned, shall not be considered for
final approval until the subdivider shall submit a drainage report prepared by a
registered professional engineer or surveyor as to the existing and proposed
drainage conditions. A preliminary report shall be included on the preliminary
plat. The final report in conformance with the City’s storm sewer design
standards shall be attached to the final plat and shall include an evaluation
of the ability of the proposed water courses, drainage tiles, storm sewers,
culverts and other improvements pertaining to drainage or flood control within
the subdivision to handle the run-off which would be generated by the
development of the land within and above the subdivision and the impacts of
such drainage on downstream drainage systems.
         1.   The preliminary plat report shall include:
            1.   Preliminary estimates of the quantity of storm water entering the subdivision
naturally and upon full development of lots within the subdivision.
            2.   Existing conditions of the watershed that may affect the proposed subdivision, such
as soil type, drainage channels, obstructions and the like.
            3.   A preliminary grading plan illustrating proposed drainage
management.
         2.   The final plat drainage report shall contain:
            1.   Calculations of the quantity of storm water entering the
subdivision naturally and
estimates of such storm water upon full development within the subdivision based on
the proposed zoning.
            2.   Quantities of flow at each pick-up point.
            3.   Estimates and type of temporary erosion control measures necessary to control
erosion during construction.
            4.   A description of an adequate drainage system within the subdivision and its design
capacities based on a ten (10) year storm.
      B.   Drainage Requirements:
      The subdivider shall provide adequate drainage facilities within the subdivision, including
storm sewers determined to be necessary by the Commission upon recommendation of the
City Engineer. If storm sewers are not necessary, all open ditches shall be
graded and all pipes, culverts, intersection drains, drop inlets, bridges,
headwalls, gutters, and similar or related installations necessary to provide
adequate surface water drainage, shall be constructed and installed in
accordance with plans approved by the Council upon recommendation by the City
Engineer.
      C.   Drainage System Standards:
         1.   All streets shall be provided with an adequate storm drainage system of curbs, gutters,
and storm sewers or side ditches in conformance with the City’s storm sewer
design standards.
         2.   Curb drainage inlets shall be provided at appropriate intervals along streets with curbs
and gutter drainage. Where inlets connect to storm sewers a drain inlet structure and a
protective grating shall be installed.
         3.   All streets having curbs and gutters on which storm water ?ows across intersections shall
be provided with concrete cross gutters at such intersections.
         4.   All off-
street drainage swales and ditches shall be protected by drainage easements noted
on the ?nal plat. Where water courses would cross lots diagonally, the
subdivider shall straighten such course and shall substantially follow lot
lines.
      D.   Storm Drain Responsibility:
      The subdivider shall be responsible for the entire cost and expense for
the construction of all
storm drain systems; provided, however, that the City, through the City Council, may agree to
contribute to and pay up to one-half the difference in cost as determined at
the time of approval between the storm drain system requiring a storm drain
thirty-six inches (36”) in diameter and one requiring a storm drain over
thirty-six inches (36”) in diameter for plats located within the city limits,
or to be annexed with final plat approval.
         1.   The City contribution shall be limited to the available funds appropriated for such
purposes in the current fiscal year’s budget.
         2.   If requests for such subsidies exceed available funds
appropriated for such purposes, the
City Council may establish, by resolution, a system of priorities upon which to base City
contributions.
            1.   The dollar amount of City participation for a particular
subdivision shall be determined by the City Council as of the date of
acceptance of the ?nal plat of such
subdivision and shall be set forth in the ordinance approving and accepting such ?nal
plat.
            2.   The City’s agreement to make such a contribution shall lapse
if the storm drains are
not constructed by the subdivider within two years after the date of acceptance of the
?nal subdivision. The subdivider shall be responsible for the installation and
maintenance of open ditches for surface drainage where permitted.
   5.   Landscape Screens.
      Landscape screens as required by the City shall be installed at the expense
of the subdivider as a buffer for the protection of residential
properties along major streets, railroad rights-of-way, and land uses which are
substantially different from those proposed in the subdivision.
   6.   Lighting; Street and Pedestrian.
      A.   New subdivision lighting shall utilize underground wiring and easements for such wiring
shall be indicated on the plat. All underground wiring shall conform to
installation specifications required by the Nebraska State Electrical Code.
      B.   The City shall provide and install streetlights at each entrance 
(vehicular or pedestrian) into a subdivision and at each street intersection
within the subdivision and at such intermediate points as necessary, as
specified by the Municipal Energy Agency of Nebraska or the City Engineer.
      C.   Nonstandard light fixtures may be approved by Planning Commission and City Council at the
expense of the Subdivider.
   7.   Monuments.
      Monuments shall be placed at all block
corners, angle points, points of curves in streets and at intermediate points
except in cases where it is deemed clearly unreasonable by the City. The
monuments shall be of such material, size, and length as may be approved by the
City.
   8.   Pavement Construction.
      A.   Minimum requirements for pavement construction shall be in accordance with the standard
speci?cations of the City or as approved by the Planning Commission and City
Council.
      B.   Higher design standards may be required by the Planning Commission and City Council to
provide adequately for unusual soil conditions or extraordinary traffic volumes
or other abnormal characteristics.
      C.   All streets shall be paved in accordance with the standards
specifications.
   9.   Pavement Widths.
      A.   Pavement widths shall be measured from back of curb to back of curb.
      B.   Minimum pavement or surface widths shall be provided in accordance
with standard
speci?cations of the City or as approved by the Planning Commission and City Council.
   10.   Sanitary Sewage Disposal.
      A sanitary sewer system shall be designed and constructed by the subdivider for all lots in the
proposed subdivision. The following requirements shall apply:
      A.   Type of Improvements:
         1.   Within the corporate limits of the City, a sanitary sewer collection system, including all
pipes and manholes, shall be provided, and said collection system shall be connected to
the public sewage system in accordance with plans acceptable to the City
Engineer, Planning Commission, and City Council.
         2.   Within the jurisdictional areas of the City but outside the
corporate limits, if a proposed
subdivision is so located with regard to an adequate public sewer, either existing or to be
existing within one (1) year from the date of application for final plat
approval, that said sewer is located within five hundred feet (500') of the
proposed subdivision or can be reached if the cost of installing lateral and
connecting sewers from all lots shown upon
said plat, exclusive of connections from individual structures, is equal to or less than one
hundred fifty (150) percent of the cost of installing a private sewage
collection and disposal system for all lots, then adequate lateral and
connecting sewers to said public sewer system shall be constructed.
         3.   If the subdivision is not located relative to a public sewer
system, a private collection and treatment system acceptable to the City
Council, City Engineer, and appropriate to the Nebraska Department of
Environmental and Energy may be used. If on-site disposal is proposed, the
subdivider shall document that acceptable percolation rates do exist on each
lot, and such lots shall be adequately sized to allow for the installation and
safe operation of such systems.
      B.   Design Standards:
         1.   When applicable, improvement plans for a permanent sewage system
shall be provided, showing pipe sizes, gradients, type of pipe, invert and
finished grade elevations, location
and type of manholes, treatment facilities if applicable,
lift stations if applicable, and the location, type, and size of all lift or
pumping stations.
         2.   Design standards
of said system shall be subject to the approval of the City in accordance with
the following standards:
            1.   At least eight-inch (8”) PVC sewer lines will be installed.
            2.   At least four-inch 
(4”) service connections from the sewer line to the property line of each lot
will be installed with the location marked.
            3.   Manholes will be provided at all interceptor and lateral junctions, at the end of each
line, and at all changes in direction, grade, and size.
            4.   Design standards of said system shall be in general compliance
with the requirements of the Nebraska Department of Environment and Energy.
   11.   Sidewalks.
      A.   Sidewalks shall be provided in conformance with standard speci?cations of the City and shall
be constructed of Portland cement concrete or other acceptable material as
approved by Planning Commission.
      B.   Sidewalk thickness shall not be less than four inches (4”).
      C.   Sidewalks shall be constructed on any undeveloped lot within six 
(6) months, by the owner, after a directive from the City.
   12.   Street Grading.
   All streets shall be graded to a minimum fifteen feet 
(15') back of the curb or edge of pavement to within six inches (6”) of the
street grade established in the approved final plat construction plans and
specifications.
   13.   Street Signs.
   At least one (1) street sign shall be installed at each street intersection
on the perimeter of and
within the subdivision. Each street sign shall be located in the northeast corner thereof, whenever
possible, and within the area between the street and sidewalk at a point
approximately six inches
(6”) from said sidewalk or its intended location. Street name signs of a type in use throughout the
City shall be provided and installed by the City.
   14.   Water System.
   A water distribution system shall be designed and constructed by the
subdivider to provide
adequate water service to all lots in the proposed subdivision. The following requirements shall
apply:
      A.   Type of Improvements:
         1.   Within the corporate limits of the City, a water distribution
system, including all pipes, fire hydrants, valves, and other appurtenances
shall be provided, and said distribution
system shall be connected to the public water system in accordance
with plans acceptable to the City Engineer, Planning Commission, and City
Council.
         2.   Within the jurisdictional area of the City but outside the
corporate limits, if a proposed subdivision is so located with regard to an
adequate public water supply line, either existing or proposed within one (1)
year from the date of application for final plat approval, that said water line
is located within five hundred feet (500') of the proposed
subdivision or can be reached if the cost of connecting to said water line and installing an
adequate distribution system to all lots shown upon said plat, exclusive of
connections form individual structures, is equal to or less than one hundred
fifty (150) percent of the cost of installing an individual water supply system
for all lots, then adequate connecting lines to said public water system shall
be constructed.
         3.   If the subdivision is not so located relative to a public water line, individual wells may be
installed.
      B.   Design Standards:
         1.   When applicable, improvement plans for a permanent water system
shall be provided, showing pipe sizes, type of pipe, locations of ?re hydrants
and valves, and, if applicable, supply facilities, booster pumps, elevated or
ground level storage tanks, and other
appurtenances. Fire hydrants and valve brand must comply with requirements of the City
and City Engineer.
         2.   Design standards of
said system shall be subject to the approval of the City in accordance with the
following standards:
            1.   The minimum main or pipe size shall be determined by the type of uses to be served
and the provision of adequate fire flow capacities. Generally, water lines
shall be PVC material of at least six inches (6”) in diameter.
            2.   The maximum distance between ?re hydrants shall be determined
by the City, but
generally any portion of the proposed subdivision shall be within two-hundred-
fifty feet (250') of a fire hydrant.
            3.   A valve shall be installed in all directions at all tee-
connecting and cross-connecting water lines. This means three valve at each tee
and four valves at each cross connection.
            4.   Gate valves on cross-
connecting water lines shall be so located that no single break in the
distribution system shall require more than five hundred feet (500') to be out
of service in high value districts or eight hundred feet (800') in other
districts.
            5.   Valves or cross-
connecting mains shall be so located that a break in the secondary distribution
system will not necessitate shutting down major distribution lines.
         3.   Design standards of the water distribution system shall comply with the requirements of
the Nebraska Department of Environment and Energy.
11.13.   Over-Sized and Off-Site Improvements.
      The utilities, street pavement, and other improvements required for the
proposed subdivision may be required to be over-sized or extended to serve
nearby land or anticipated future development. This
determination shall be made by the Planning Commission and City Council in consultation with
City Staff, the Utilities Department, and the City Engineer.
      1.   Cost of Over-Sized Improvements
         A.   Minimum street pavement widths for streets shall conform to the standards established by the
City. Minimum utility sizes shall be determined by the standards of the City
for providing service to the subdivision in question. Where pavement widths or
larger pipe or main sizes are deemed necessary by the Planning Commission and
City Council, the City shall bear the extra cost of providing such greater
width or larger pipe or main sizes.
         B.   The subdivider shall be required to pay for that part of the
construction costs for the arterial
streets, trunk sewers, or water lines which are serving the proposed subdivision as determined
by the Planning Commission and City Council. The City shall
pay the remainder of the costs.
         C.   If traffic control devices at intersections on the periphery of
the subdivision are deemed
necessary by the Planning Commission, City Council, or other regulating entities, the City
and subdivider shall negotiate payment responsibilities.
      2.   Extensions
         A.   The subdivider may be required to extend the necessary improvements to the boundaries of
the proposed subdivision at his/her expense to allow for service to future
anticipated developments on adjoining lands, as determined by the Planning
Commission and City Council.
         B.   If streets or utilities are not available at the boundary of the
proposed subdivision or within the distances or costs established in Section
11.13.1 of this Ordinance and the Planning Commission determines that
extensions across undeveloped areas are not warranted, the subdivider, if he/
she wishes to proceed with the development, shall pay the cost of such off-
site improvements and provide for appropriate off-
site easements prior to the approval of the ?nal plat. Such improvements shall
be available for connections by subdividers of adjoining lands.
11.14.   Variances.
   1.   The Planning Commission may recommend, and the City Council may grant
variances from the provision of the regulations in
this Ordinance. No such variance shall be authorized by the board of adjustment
unless it finds all the following conditions are met:
      A.   The strict application of the regulations would produce undue
hardship.
      B.   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the same zoning district and the
same vicinity.
      C.   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial detriment to adjacent property
and the character of the district will not be changed by the granting of the
variance.
      D.   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of demonstrable and exceptional hardship
as distinguished from variations for purposes of convenience, profit, or
caprice.
   No variance shall be authorized unless the board of adjustment finds that
the condition or situation of the property concerned, or the intended use of
the property is not of so general or
recurring a nature as to make reasonably practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be
adopted as an amendment to the zoning regulations.
   2.   The requirement of filing and recording a plat for subdivision shall not be
waived.
   3.   The Planning Commission and City Council may also grant reasonable
variances to these
regulations if the subdivider concurrently submits an application for, and obtains approval of, a
Planned Unit Development. The subdivider shall indicate where their plans vary
from these regulations and shall present sufficient evidence to support their
request, indicating why their request will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety and welfare.
11.15.   Final Plat Development Requirements.:
   A proposed subdivision shall be developed in accordance with the approved Final Plat of the subdivision
and all supporting data. These plats shall control and limit the use of the
land in the subdivision as indicated on the plats.
11.16.   Violation; Penalty.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this Ordinance, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100) dollars for
each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every twenty-
four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
11.17.   Public Improvements; When Installed.
   A.   All approved subdivisions must be developed with all required public infrastructure within
five 
(5) years of the date of subdivision approval. If an alternative timeline is presented for
installation of public infrastructure by this Ordinance or other regulating
factors, the more constrictive timeline must be followed. However, an extension
may be requested.
   B.   All approved subdivisions must install all required public infrastructure prior to developing
any property located within the subdivision. With approval of the City Council
the installation of public infrastructure may be completed in city block
increments.
 
