CITY OF SCRIBNER, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 616-25, passed 12-22-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the City of Scribner
Code of Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator/Clerk/Treasurer.
      CITY CLERK. The City Administrator/Clerk/Treasurer.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the city.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Scribner,
Nebraska.
      CITY TREASURER. The City Administrator/Clerk/Treasurer.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and the adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Dodge County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following a specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended, or its application to
any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, then the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedications of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the City Council.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, association or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances hereof for which no other penalty is
imposed shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and be fined
in any sum not more than $500 for each offense and each day's maintenance of
the same shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in
Title IX of this code, the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and
abate the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Ord. 615-25, passed 12-22-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-505
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official corporate seal
   
11.02   Publication of ordinances
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   There shall be owned by the city and kept in the office the City Clerk
a common seal of the corporation having engraved thereon the words “Corporate
Seal, City of Scribner, Nebraska.”
    (B)   The City Clerk shall affix an impression of the official seal to all
warrants, licenses, ordinances and other papers issued by order of the Mayor
and City Council to be signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 11.01)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
   
31.   APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
   
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
   
33.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
   
34.   ELECTIONS
   
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Vacancies
   
30.02   Qualifications; holding other elective office
Mayor
   
30.15   Selection and duties
City Council
   
30.30   Vacancies
   
30.31   Selection and duties
   
30.32   Council organization
   
30.33   President; Acting President
   
30.34   Standing committees
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
30.45   Grant of power
   
30.46   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.47   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.48   Publication or posting
   
30.49   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.50   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.51   Amendments and revisions
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 30.01 VACANCIES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) or (C) below,
vacancies in elected offices shall be filled by the City Council for the
balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy resulting
from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to the City
Council at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the
minutes of such meeting. The City Council shall at once give public notice of
the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the city or by posting in three public places in the city the office
vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the City Council or place
the issue of filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular meeting, at
which time the Mayor shall submit the name of a qualified registered voter to
fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The regular or special
meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent or within four weeks after
the meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented. The City
Council shall vote upon such nominee, and if a majority votes in favor of such
nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to receive
a majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Mayor shall
at the next regular or special meeting submit the name of another qualified
registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails to
receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall continue at such meeting to
submit the names of qualified registered voters in nomination, and the City
Council shall continue to vote upon such nominations at such meeting until the
vacancy is filled. All Council members present shall cast a ballot for or
against the nominee. Any member of the City Council who has been appointed to
fill a vacancy on the Council shall have the same rights, including voting, as
if such person were elected.
   (B)   The City Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in the elected
office, as provided in division (A) above or Neb. RS 32-568(3), call a special
city election to fill such vacancy.
   (C)   If vacancies exist in the offices of a majority of the members of the
City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special election to fill
such vacancies.
(Ord. 489-07, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 30.02 QUALIFICATIONS; HOLDING OTHER ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officials shall be residents and registered voters of the
city. No person shall be precluded from being elected or appointed to or
holding an elective office for the reason that he or she has been elected or
appointed to or holds another elective office described in Article IV, § 1, of
the Constitution of the state. A legislator or an Article IV-elected office
holder may simultaneously serve in another elective office which is filled at
an election held in conjunction with the annual meeting of a public body.
Whenever an incumbent of the legislature or an Article IV-elected office
assumes another elective office, except an elective office filled at an
election held in conjunction with the annual meeting of a public body, the
office first held by the incumbent shall be deemed vacant.
   (B)   Members of the Council shall hold no other employment with the city.
Any Council member who ceases to possess any of the qualifications required by
this section or who has been convicted of a crime while in office shall
forthwith forfeit such office. The Council shall be the judge of the election
and qualifications of its members, subject to review by the courts.
(Ord. 369, passed 12-17-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 16-305, 16-311, 19-613 and 32-563
**** MAYOR ****
§ 30.15 SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall be elected at the municipal election and shall
serve a four-year term of office.
      (2)   The Mayor shall be a resident and registered voter of the
municipality.
      (3)   The Mayor of the municipality shall have the general and immediate
control over all property and officials, whether elected or appointed, of the
municipality.
      (4)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council and may
vote when his or her vote shall be decisive and the Council is equally divided
on any pending matter, legislation or transaction, and the Mayor shall, for the
purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of the Council. The Mayor’s
signature must appear on the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer’s minutes of all
meetings, and he or she must sign all resolutions which have been passed and
warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the City Council.
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by
the City Council. Any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor may be passed over the veto
by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the City Council. If the Mayor
neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance and returns it with his or her
objections in writing at the next regular Council meeting, the same shall
become a law without his or her signature.
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the Council such
information and recommendations as, in his or her opinion, may improve the
municipality. The Mayor may require at reasonable intervals any municipal
official to exhibit accounts and make reports to the Council on any subject
pertaining to the official’s office.
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines or pardon any offense
arising under the ordinances of the municipality and may remove at any time an
appointed police officer of the municipality.
   (E)   The Mayor’s territorial authority shall extend over all places within
five miles of the corporate limits of the municipality for the enforcement of
any health ordinance, and one-half mile in all matters vested in the Mayor,
except taxation.
   (F)   He or she shall also have such other duties as the City Council may by
resolution confer upon the Mayor or in any other matters which the laws of the
state repose in the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 30.10) (Ord. 253, passed 7-12-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-110 through 17-117 and 32-533
**** CITY COUNCIL ****
§ 30.30 VACANCIES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the City Council shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the Council unless the absences are excused by
a majority vote of the remaining members.
   (B)   The City Council shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member’s
absence from a meeting upon either a written request from the member submitted
to the City Clerk or a motion of any other Council member.
   (C)   If a Council member has been absent from six consecutive regular
meetings and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the
remaining members, the City Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda
for the next regular meeting. At that meeting, the Council shall set a date for
a hearing and direct the City Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by
personal service or first-class mail to the member’s last known address.
   (D)   (1)   At the hearing, the Council member shall have the right to
present information on why one or more of the absences should be excused.
      (2)   If the Council does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences
by a majority vote at the conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy
on the Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 254, passed 7-12-1976; Ord. 368, passed 12-17-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-3101 and 32-567 through 32-572
§ 30.31 SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council shall consist of four members.
   (B)   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four-
year term.
   (C)   The City Council shall be the legislative division of the municipal
government and shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be
authorized by law.
   (D)   The City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate business, protect
the public health and safety and assess such taxes and fees as are necessary
and appropriate in the exercise of these functions.
(Prior Code, § 30.20)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-533
§ 30.32 COUNCIL ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   (1)   City Council members of this municipality shall take office and
commence their duties on the first regular meeting in December following their
election.
      (2)   The newly elected Council members who have qualified as prescribed
by law, together with the members of the City Council holding over, shall
assemble in a regular meeting at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and
perfect the reorganization of the City Council as herein provided, and all
appointive offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled
by appointment.
   (B)   After the meeting has been called to order, the Municipal Clerk shall
report to the City Council the names of all City Council members-elect who have
qualified for their respective offices, and this report shall be spread upon
the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
(Prior Code, § 30.21) (Ord. 255, passed 7-12-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-104
§ 30.33 PRESIDENT; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body who shall be styled
the President of the Council and who shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   In the absence of the President, the Council shall elect one of its
own body to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting
President of the Council.
   (C)   The President and Acting President, when occupying the place of the
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the Council; and all
acts of the President or Acting President, while so acting, shall be as binding
upon the Council and upon the city as if done by the Mayor.
(Neb. RS 17-148)
§ 30.34 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall
appoint members of such standing committees as the Council may create by
ordinance or resolution.
   (B)   The membership of such standing committees may be changed at any time
by the Mayor.
   (C)   The Mayor shall be an ex officio member of each standing committee.
The members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office of one year
unless reappointed.
**** ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS ****
§ 30.45 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers specifically granted by law, the city
shall have the power to make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and
resolutions not inconsistent with the laws of the state as may be expedient for
maintaining the peace, good government and welfare of the city and its trade
and commerce and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties for
the breach thereof, not exceeding the amount set out in the Master Fee Schedule
for any one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 30.46 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   Style. The style of all city ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by
the Mayor and Council of the City of Scribner, Nebraska: ….”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   Title. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly
expressed in the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 30.47 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the
appropriation or payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption
the concurrence of a majority of all elected members of the City Council. The
Mayor may vote on any such matter if:
            1.   The Mayor’s vote is required due to the City Council members
being equally divided; or
            2.   A majority vote of all the elected members of the City Council
cannot be reached due to absence, vacancy or abstention of one or more City
Council members.
         (b)   For the purpose of such vote, the Mayor is deemed to be a member
of the City Council.
      (2)   (a)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by
title on three different days unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to
suspend this requirement.
         (b)   Such requirement shall not be suspended:
            1.   For any ordinance for the annexation of territory, or the
redrawing of boundaries for City Council election districts or wards; or
            2.   As otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   In case this requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read
by title and then moved for final passage.
      (4)   Three-fourths of the City Council may require a reading of any such
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   (1)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the yeas and
nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or any
such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of
members elected to the City Council shall be required.
      (2)   All appointments of the officers by the City Council shall be made
viva voce, and the concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the
names of those, and for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an
appointment shall be recorded.
      (3)   The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be
satisfied by a city which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the
yeas and nays of each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the
public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments to boundaries of election districts, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 30.48 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall be published within 15 days after
they are passed:
   (A)   In some newspaper published in the municipality one time, but if no
paper is published in the municipality, then by posting a written or printed
copy thereof in each of three public places in the municipality; or
   (B)   By publishing the same in book or pamphlet form.
(Ord. 311, passed 10-1-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
§ 30.49 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the city from the City
Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and in what
paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the ordinance
was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 30.50 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.48 and division (B) below, an ordinance for the government of the city which
has been adopted by the City Council without submission to the voters of the
city shall not go into effect until 15 days after the passage of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the city. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the City Council and be entered of record on
the City Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 30.51 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the city and modifications to zoning or building
districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the city, see Neb. RS 17-614
   Requests to detach property from city or village, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 31: APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Appointment; removal
   
31.02   Merger of offices
   
31.03   Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.04   City Clerk/Administrator
   
31.05   Police Chief
   
31.06   Assistant Police Chief
   
31.07   Police officers
   
31.08   Fire Chief
   
31.09   Municipal Utility Superintendent
   
31.10   City Engineer; Special Engineer
   
31.11   Municipal Physician
   
31.12   Municipal Building Inspector
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL.
   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council, may appoint such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law. Such
officers may be removed from office by the Mayor. The Mayor, by and with the
consent of the City Council, shall appoint such other officials as may be
necessary and may establish a police reserve force as provided by law. All
police officers and other appointed officials shall be subject to removal at
any time by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Ord. 288, passed 1-2-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107 and 81-1438 through 81-1446
§ 31.02 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The City Council may, at its discretion, by ordinance combine and merge any
elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of any
such offices or employments, except Mayor and Council member, with any other
elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of such offices
or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices or employments
may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time. The offices or
employments so merged and combined shall always be construed to be separate,
and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a consolidation
of official duties only. The salary or compensation of the officer or employee
holding the merged or combined offices or employments or offices and
employments shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for
the salary or compensation of the office, offices, employment or employments so
merged and combined. For the purpose of this section, volunteer firefighters
and ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Prior Code, § 31.02) (Ord. 215, passed 8-30-1973; Ord. 370, passed 12-17-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02
§ 31.03 CLERK/TREASURER.
   The appointive offices of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are hereby
combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the City
Council by §
31.02.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
§ 31.04 CITY CLERK/ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Establishment and purpose of City Clerk/Administrator.
      (1)   There is hereby established the office of full-time City Clerk/
Administrator. The purpose of the office of City Clerk/Administrator is to
provide for the centralization of the administrative responsibilities of all
affairs of the city which are under the direction of the Mayor and City
Council.
      (2)   The City Clerk/Administrator shall have all of the duties of the
City Clerk as defined by state law and as set forth in the ordinances of the
city. In addition to the City Clerk duties, such Clerk/Administrator shall have
the following duties and responsibilities.
         (a)   The City Clerk/Administrator shall be the non-elected
administrative head of the city government under the direction and control of
the Mayor and City Council. The City Clerk/Administrator shall be appointed by
the Mayor with the approval of the majority of the members of the City Council.
         (b)   All of the departments of the city shall be under the direct
administrative supervision and direction of the City Clerk/Administrator.
Except for the purposes of inquiry, the Mayor and City Council shall deal with
the administrative services of the city through the City Clerk/Administrator.
         (c)   The City Clerk/Administrator shall direct the affairs of the
city, to include planning, directing and coordinating the personnel matters of
all city employees, except as otherwise provided by city ordinances, state
statutes or any applicable labor contracts made on the basis of merit; recruit,
interview and test job applicants; ensure all appointments are made on the
basis of merit; maintain a classification system, if any, for city employees
and administer the pay plan; keep records of all city employees; ensure
hearings for grievances promote training programs; and foster good employee
relations.
         (d)   The City Clerk/Administrator shall recommend to the Mayor and
Council the appointment and dismissal of all department heads over which the
Administrator exercises jurisdiction. The City Clerk/Administrator is
responsible for the appointment and dismissal of all subordinate city employees
in the departments, divisions and services over which he or she exercises
jurisdiction. The City Clerk/Administrator may also provide for the transfer of
such employees within such departments, divisions and services to meet the
city’s varying workload and/or emergencies.
         (e)   The City Clerk/Administrator, along with other city officials,
will keep the Mayor and City Council fully advised as to the financial
condition of the city and its future needs. The City Clerk/Administrator shall
assist in the preparation of the annual estimates of revenues and expenditures
of a proposed budget for the presentation of a complete financial plan for the
Mayor and City Council prior to the consideration and adoption of the annual
appropriation ordinance by the Council. He or she will be jointly responsible
for the supervision and control of the budgeted expenditure items in annual
budget.
         (f)   The City Clerk/Administrator shall make investigations into all
of the affairs of the city and make recommendations to the Mayor and Council
for the adoption of such measures and ordinances as are deemed necessary or
expedient for the good of the city government.
         (g)   The City Clerk/Administrator shall analyze the functions, duties
and activities of the various departments, divisions and services of the city
and all employees thereof, and make recommendations regarding the same to the
Mayor and Council, and to faithfully carry out the directions and
recommendations of the Mayor and Council in coordinating the administrative
functions and operations of the various departments, divisions and services.
         (h)   The City Clerk/Administrator shall investigate, or have
investigated, all complaints filed against any employees, departments,
divisions or services of the city, and report such investigations with
recommendations to the Mayor and City Council.
         (i)   The City Clerk/Administrator shall assist with economic
development and city planning and zoning issues as requested and advise the
clerk of the Planning Commission, City Planning Commission and City Council of
any matters pertaining to city economic development and planning.
         (j)   The City Clerk/Administrator shall attend all meetings of the
City Council with the duty of reporting any matter concerning city affairs
under his or her supervision and direction; and to attend such other city
representation meetings as his or her duties may require, or as may be directed
by the Mayor and Council.
         (k)   The City Clerk/Administrator shall perform such other duties and
exercise such other powers as may be required by ordinance, employment service
contract or prescribed by resolution of the Mayor and Council.
   (B)   Compensation. The full-time City Clerk/Administrator shall receive
such compensation, benefits, allowances and allocation as determined by the
Mayor and City Council.
   (C)   Political activity; conflict of interest. The full-time City Clerk/
Administrator shall not participate in any political activity, other than
administrative requests, on behalf of candidates or issues involving public
trust, except for the casting of an individual ballot. The City Clerk/
Administrator shall be an officer of the city within the meaning of Neb. RS 16-
502 and shall be subject to and bound by the prohibitions contained therein.
(Ord. 497-08, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 31.05 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall direct the police work of the city and shall be
responsible for the maintenance of law and order. Unless the Mayor and City
Council provide otherwise, he or she shall act as Health Inspector and Building
Inspector.
   (B)   If the city has an agreement with the County Sheriff for law
enforcement purposes, the County Sheriff shall have all the powers and duties
of the Police Chief and city police officers as specified in the agreement.
§ 31.06 ASSISTANT POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   There be and hereby is created the office of assistant Chief of
Police, who shall be appointed by the Chief of Police with the written approval
of the Mayor.
   (B)   The assistant Chief of Police shall have those duties as determined by
the Chief of Police and shall work under his or her direct supervision and
authority.
   (C)   In the absence or disability of the Chief of Police, the assistant
Chief shall assume all of the duties and responsibilities of the Chief of
Police.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority to appoint other officers
under his or her control and authority to such rank in the chain of command as
he or she determines advisable. Such appointments shall be approved in writing
by the Mayor.
(Ord. 495-07, passed 12-19-2007)
§ 31.07 POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The municipal police, whether regular or special, shall have the power
to arrest all offenders against the laws of the state, or the municipality, by
day or by night. They shall have full power and authority to call on any person
whenever necessary to assist them in performing public duties, and failure,
neglect or refusal to render such assistance shall be deemed a misdemeanor
punishable upon conviction by a fine. Every municipal police officer shall be
expected to be conversant, and knowledgeable with the municipal and state laws,
and no law enforcement official shall have any interest in any establishment
having a liquor license.
   (B)   Municipal police officers shall have the duty to file such complaints
and reports as may be required by the municipal ordinances and the laws of the
state. Any municipal police officer who shall willfully fail, neglect or refuse
to make an arrest, or who purposely and willfully fails to make a complaint
after an arrest is made shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined. It shall be unlawful for the City Council to retain
any municipal police officer in that position after he or she shall have been
duly convicted of the willful violation of any law of the United States of
America, the state or any ordinance of the municipality, except minor traffic
violations.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every municipal police officer making a lawful
arrest to search all persons in the presence of some other person, whenever
possible, and to carefully keep, and produce to the proper judicial official
upon the trial, everything found upon the person of such prisoners. All
personal effects so taken from prisoners aforesaid shall be restored to them
upon their release. Suitable uniforms and badges shall be furnished to the
municipal police by the municipality. Any member who shall lose or destroy the
same shall be required to pay the replacement costs, and, in the event that any
member shall leave the force, he or she shall immediately deliver his or her
badge to the Police Chief.
   (D)   The City Council may, from time to time, provide the municipal police
with such uniforms, equipment and transportation as may be essential in the
performance of their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 31.06) (Ord. 258, passed 7-12-1976) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.08 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Municipal Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire
Department. He or she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the
prevention of fires; the storage and use of explosives and flammable
substances; the installation of fire alarm systems; the maintenance of fire
extinguishing equipment; the regulation of fire escapes; and the inspection of
all premises requiring adequate fire escapes. He or she shall within two days
investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of fires arising within his or
her jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   He or she shall have the power during the time of a fire and for
a period of 36 hours thereafter to arrest any suspected arsonist or any person
for hindering the Department’s efforts, conducting himself or herself in a
noisy and disorderly manner, or any person who refuses to obey any lawful order
by the Fire Chief or assistant Fire Chief.
      (2)   The Fire Chief or an assistant in charge of operations at a fire
may command the services of any person present at any fire in extinguishing the
same or in the removal and protection of property. Failure to obey such an
order shall be an offense punishable by a fine.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall have the right to enter at all reasonable hours
into buildings, and upon all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the
purpose of examining the same for fire hazards and related dangers.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate or cause to
be investigated the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in
the municipality in which property has been destroyed or damaged in excess of
the amount set out in the Master Fee Schedule. All fires of unknown origin
shall be reported, and such officers shall especially make an investigation and
report as to whether such fire was the result of carelessness, accident or
design. Such investigation shall be begun within two days of the occurrence of
such fire and the State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and
direct the investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary.
The officer making the investigation of fires occurring within the municipality
shall immediately notify the State Fire Marshal and shall within one week of
the occurrence of the fire furnish him or her with a written statement of all
the facts relating to the cause and origin of the fire, and such further
information as he or she may call for.
(Prior Code, § 31.07) (Ord. 230, passed 12-2-1974) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505, 35-102, 28-908, 81-506 and 81-512
§ 31.09 MUNICIPAL UTILITY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   A Utility Superintendent shall be appointed in the event that there is
more than one municipal utility and the City Council determines that it is in
the best interest of the municipality to appoint one official to have the
immediate control over all said municipal utilities. Any vacancy occurring in
said office by death, resignation or removal may be filled in the manner
hereinbefore provided for the appointment of all municipal officials.
   (B)   The Utility Superintendent’s duties over the following departments
shall be as stated herein.
      (1)   Water Department. He or she shall have general supervision and
control over the municipal water system and shall be primarily responsible for
its economic operation and prudent management. Included in the water system
shall be the water plant, the pump house, all machinery and appliances used in
connection with producing and distributing water to inhabitants of the
municipality. All actions, decisions and procedures of the Utility
Superintendent shall be subject to the general directives and control of the
City Council. The Utility Superintendent shall have the general control and
supervisory authority over all employees of the water system which the City
Council may from time to time hire to operate and maintain the system.
      (2)   Sewer Department. The Utility Superintendent shall have the
immediate control and supervision over all the employees and property that make
up the municipal sewer system, subject to the general control and directives of
the City Council. He or she shall direct their attention to such improvements,
repairs, extensions, additions and additional employees as he or she may
believe are needed along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall
have such other duties as the City Council may delegate. He or she shall issue
permits for all connections to the municipal sewer system and inspect and
supervise all repairs made to the system.
      (3)   Street Department. The Utility Superintendent shall, subject to the
orders and directives of the City Council, have general charge, direction and
control of all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts and bridges of the
municipality and shall perform such other duties as the City Council may
require.
(Prior Code, § 31.04)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-541 and 39-2512
§ 31.10 CITY ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Engineer shall, when requested by the Mayor or City
Council, make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or
furnished by contract with the city and make all surveys, estimates and
calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light systems, waterworks, power plants, public
heating systems, bridges, curbing and gutters, the improvement of streets and
the erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform such other duties as
the City Council may require.
      (2)   When the city has appointed a Board of Public Works and the Mayor
and City Council have by ordinance so authorized, the Board may utilize its own
engineering staff and may hire consulting engineers for the design and
installation of extensions and improvements of the works under the jurisdiction
of the Board.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council may employ a special engineer to make, or
assist in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided
for in Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have
the same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the City
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)   
   (C)   The City Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the city and, when directed by the Mayor and
City Council, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles and maps as
may be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the city and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 18-3301
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-150 and 17-919
§ 31.11 MUNICIPAL PHYSICIAN.
   The Municipal Physician shall be a member of the Board of Health of the
municipality and perform the duties devolving upon the position as the medical
advisor of said Board. He or she shall receive no compensation for services as
a member of the Municipal Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 31.09)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 31.12 MUNICIPAL BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Municipal Building Inspector shall conduct surveys and make
inspections in any area of the municipality to determine whether all buildings
and structures are in compliance with the municipal ordinances.
   (B)   He or she shall investigate all complaints, whether they are verbal,
written or in the form of a petition, alleging and charging that a violation of
the municipal ordinances exists and that a building or structure is unfit or
unsafe for human habitation. The Building Inspector is authorized, upon
properly identifying himself or herself, to enter, inspect, survey and
investigate between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., or at any time if an
emergency exists, or if requested by the owner or occupant thereof.
   (C)   He or she shall keep records of all complaints received, inspection
reports, orders and complaints issued. The records shall be available for
public inspection, and he or she shall prepare an annual report, including
statistics based on the records kept. The Building Inspector shall have no
financial interest in the furnishing of labor, materials or appliances for the
construction, alteration or maintenance of a building, except where he or she
is the owner of a building, and shall not act as an agent for any said dealer
or as an agent for the sale, lease or rental of any real estate. The Building
Inspector shall report to the City Council as often as it may deem necessary
and shall have such other duties and issue such permits as it may direct.
(Prior Code, § 31.10)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Boards and Commissions
   
32.01   Library Board
   
32.02   Planning Commission
   
32.03   Board of Adjustment
   
32.04   Board of Health
   
32.05   Cemetery Board
   
32.06   Musbach Museum Board
   
32.07   City Tree Board
   
32.08   Board of Public Trust
   
32.09   Sports Complex Board
Fire Department
   
32.20   Operation and funding
   
32.21   Membership
   
32.22   Records
   
32.23   Fires
   
32.24   Distant fires
   
32.25   Notice of violation
Police Department
   
32.40   Duties
   
32.41   Reserve officer bond
   
32.42   Officers; discipline or removal from duty
**** BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS ****
§ 32.01 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   The Library Board shall consist of five appointed members who
shall be residents of the municipality and who shall serve terms of four years.
The Board members shall be appointed by a majority vote of the members of the
City Council. Neither the Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall be a
member of the Library Board.
      (2)   In cases of vacancies by resignation, removal or otherwise, the
City Council shall fill the vacancy for the unexpired term. No member shall
receive any pay or compensation for any services rendered as a member of the
Library Board.
   (B)   (1)   The members of the Library Board shall immediately after their
appointment meet and organize by electing from their number a President, a
Secretary and such other officers as may be necessary. A majority of the
members of the Library Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
      (2)   No member of the Board shall serve in the capacity of both the
President and Secretary of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the
same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
      (3)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the President or a majority of
the members of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 32.01) (Ord. 232, passed 12-2-1974)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-202 and 51-204
§ 32.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven regular members who
shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the municipality and shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and
with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the City
Council. The term of each regular member shall be three years. All regular
members shall hold office until their successors are appointed. Any member may,
after a public hearing before the City Council, be removed by the Mayor, with
the consent of a majority vote of the members elected to the City Council, for
inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office or other good and
sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of
term shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor.
   (B)   All regular members of the Commission shall serve without compensation
and shall hold no other municipal office. The Commission shall elect its
Chairperson and a Secretary from its members and create and fill such other of
its offices as it may determine. The term of the Chairperson and the Secretary
shall be one year, and they shall be eligible for reelection. No member of the
Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson and Secretary of
the Commission. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and
correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the
Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during
office hours. A number of Commissioners equal to a majority of the number of
regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. The Commission shall hold at least one regular
meeting in each calendar quarter, except the City Council may require the
Commission to meet more frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission may
call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. Special meetings may also be held upon the call of any three
members of the Commission. The Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for
the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings and determinations, which shall be a public record. The
Commission shall make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
municipality, including any areas outside its boundaries which, in the
Commission’s judgment, bear relation to the planning of the municipality, and
shall carry out the other duties and exercise the powers specified in Neb. RS
19-929. All actions by the Commission shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the Mayor and City Council. The Commission shall make its
recommendations to the City Council so that they are received by the City
Council within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a matter
relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building
codes, subdivision development, the annexation of territory or zoning. The
Commission shall be responsible for making such reports and performing such
other duties as the City Council may from time to time designate.
(Prior Code, § 32.02) (Ord. 304, passed 1-2-1979; Ord. 411-98, passed 10-26-
1998)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-19-925 through 19-929
§ 32.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The County Board of Adjustment shall serve as the Board of Adjustment for
the city.
(Prior Code, § 32.03) (Ord. 286, passed 1-2-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-907 through 19-910 and 19-912.01
§ 32.04 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   The City Council shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist of four
members. The members of the Board shall include the Mayor, who shall serve as
Chairperson; the Police Chief, who shall serve as Secretary and Quarantine
Officer; a physician who shall serve as the medical advisor; and the President
of the City Council. The members of the Board shall serve, without
compensation, a one-year term of office, unless reappointed and shall
reorganize at its meeting each year after the City Council meeting when
appointments are regularly made, and select a member to serve as Secretary. It
shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and
records of all meetings and to file the same with the Municipal Clerk where
they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time. A
majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing
business. The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any two
members of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Board to enact rules and
regulations which shall have the full force and effect of law, to safeguard the
health of the residents of the municipality. Included in the duties of the
Board shall be to enforce the rules and regulations and to provide fines and
punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress and prevent
the occurrence of nuisances and shall actively enforce all laws of the state
and ordinances of the municipality relating to matters of sanitation which
affect the health and safety of the people. The Board shall regularly inspect
such premises and businesses as the City Council may direct. All members of the
Board shall be responsible for making such reports and performing such other
duties as the City Council may from time to time designate. No member of the
Board of Health shall hold more than one Board of Health position.
(Prior Code, § 32.04) (Ord. 294, passed 1-2-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 32.05 CEMETERY BOARD.
   (A)   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint
the Cemetery Board which shall consist of six members who are residents of the
municipality.
   (B)   Each member shall serve without compensation for a term of three
years. On the second Monday of January of each year, the Board shall organize
by selecting from its membership a President, Vice President and Secretary. The
Secretary shall keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings
and file the same with the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer where they shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. All accounts against
such funds shall be drawn by the President, countersigned by the Secretary/
Treasurer. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
purpose of doing business. The Board shall meet at least one time each month.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the President or any three
members of the Board.
   (C)   (1)   The Board shall have the general care, management and
supervision of the municipal cemetery with the power and authority to limit and
regulate the number of cemetery lots that may be owned by the same person; to
prescribe rules for enclosing, adorning and erecting monuments and tombstones
on cemetery lots; and to prohibit any diverse or improper use thereof;
provided, that no religious tests shall be made as to the ownership of lots,
the burial therein and the ornamentation of graves. The Board shall pass rules
and regulations for the proper use of the cemetery and prescribe penalties and
fines for violations thereof. The Board shall use all revenue received from the
sale of lots, gifts or by devise for the care, management and administration of
the cemetery.
      (2)   All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the governing body and it shall be responsible for making such
reports and performing such additional duties as the governing body may
designate. The Board shall annually, in October of each year, render a report
in writing of its official accounts and a statement of lots sold and of its
official accounts and a statement of the lots sold and of its official receipts
and disbursements.
   (D)   It shall annually, during October of each year, furnish to the Council
an estimate of annual expenses and make recommendations to the Council of such
sums as may be necessary to raise by taxation for the maintenance of the
cemetery. No member of the governing body shall serve as a member of the Board
while serving a term of office as a member of the governing body. No member of
the Cemetery Board shall hold more than one Cemetery Board office.
(Neb. RS 12-401 through 12-403) (Prior Code, § 32.05)
§ 32.06 MUSBACH MUSEUM BOARD.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. An administrative board appointed by the Mayor and approved by the
Council, which shall be responsible for the operation of the Musbach Museum.
      COUNCIL. The duly elected members of the legislative body of the city
(Mayor and four Council members).
      MUSEUM. The Musbach Museum.
      OFFICERS. The officers chosen by members of the Board and responsible to
the members thereof.
   (B)   Creation of Board.
      (1)   There is hereby established a museum board, to be known as the
Musbach Museum Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The members of said Board shall initially be five in number.
      (3)   Members shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of
the Council.
      (4)   Three members shall initially be appointed for a term of three
years, (term expires May 1976). Two members shall initially be appointed for a
term of two years (term expires May 1975). Replacements shall be appointed to
like terms as those terms expire. Members shall be eligible to succeed
themselves.
      (5)   Any resident of the state shall be eligible to serve as a member of
the Museum Board.
      (6)   The membership of such Board shall be limited to no more than seven
members.
      (7)   Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of the
term shall be filled for the unexpired term by the Mayor, but shall not require
Council approval.
   (C)   Meetings of the Board.
      (1)   Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at the Museum at 8:00
p.m. on the first Monday of May, and the first Monday of November of each year.
      (2)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson as necessary and
shall be called upon the signed request of any four members.
      (3)   A quorum for the conduct of business shall consist of a majority of
the Board members then serving.
      (4)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board and
minutes shall be recorded by the Secretary.
   (D)   Election of officers. At the initial meeting of the Board, there shall
be elected from among the members a Chairperson, a Secretary and a Treasurer
and such other officers as the member may deem proper. The officers so elected
shall serve until the semi-annual meeting to be held in May, 1974. Thereafter,
officers shall be elected for a term of one year. Officers shall be eligible to
succeed themselves. Board members, including officers, shall serve without pay,
but may, by appropriate Board action, be reimbursed for necessary expense
incurred in the proper conduct of the business of the Museum.
   (E)   Authority of Board; duties.
      (1)   The Board shall be in charge of all administrative matters
connected with the operation of the Museum, other than the hiring or dismissal
of salaried employees. Recommendations pertaining to hiring or dismissal of
salaried employees shall be made by the Chairperson of the Board to the Mayor
for appropriate action.
      (2)   The Treasurer of the Board shall receive monthly rent from any
portion of the real property upon which the Museum is located.
      (3)   A separate Museum account shall be established from which account
all expenditures, pertaining to the operation of the Museum shall be made.
      (4)   The Board shall, by appropriate action, authorize necessary
expenditures for maintenance care, any necessary repairs of the interior or
exterior of the building, and for the operation of the Museum.
      (5)   The Board shall not be authorized to obligate the city for the
payment of money in excess of funds on hand, without the prior approval of the
City Council.
      (6)   An annual report shall be prepared jointly by the Secretary and
Treasurer and submitted to the Board at the meeting in May of each year. A copy
of the report, as adopted by the Board shall be submitted to the City Council
immediately following the May meeting. Any proposals, recommendations or
requests, pertaining to the operation of the Museum for the ensuing year shall
accompany the annual report submitted to the Council.
      (7)   The decision of the Council shall be final in any matter upon which
there is disagreement between the Board and Council.
   (F)   Name. The name of the Museum shall be “Musbach Museum.”
(Prior Code, § 32.06) (Ord. 222, passed 10-1-1973; Ord. 240, passed 1-6-1975;
Ord. 593-21, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 32.07 CITY TREE BOARD.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LARGE TREES. Trees which by their nature attain heights greater than 45
feet at maturity.
      MEDIUM TREES. Trees which by their nature normally attain heights from 25
to 45 feet at maturity.
      PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in
public parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to
which the public has free access as a park.
      SMALL TREES. Trees which by their nature do not normally attain heights
greater than 25 feet at maturity.
      STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on
land lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues of
ways within the city.
   (B)   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board, which shall
consist be limited to no more than seven members, who shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the Council.
   (C)   The term of four persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be for
three years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any
member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of
the term.
   (D)   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
   (E)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study,
investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually and administer a
written plan for the care, preservation, pruning planting, replanting, removal
or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public
areas.
      (2)   Such plan will be presented annually to the City Council and, upon
its acceptance and approval, shall constitute the official comprehensive city
tree plan. The Board, when requested by the City Council shall consider,
investigate, make finding, report and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work.
   (F)   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations and keep a minute book of its proceedings. A majority of its
members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (G)   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three
species size classes listed in the tree list and no trees may be planted closer
together than the following, except in special plantings designed or approved
by a landscape architect:
      (1)   Small trees: 30 feet;
      (2)   Medium trees: 40 feet; and
      (3)   Large trees: 50 feet.
   (H)   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and
sidewalks will be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in
the tree list, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than
the following: six feet from curb.
   (I)   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any street
corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No
street trees shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
   (J)   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in the
tree list may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead
utility wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water
line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
   (K)   The city shall have the right to plant, subject hereto, prune,
maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets,
alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to
ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such
public grounds. This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by
adjacent property owners providing that the selection and location of said
trees is in accordance with divisions (G) through (J) above.
   (L)   The City Tree Board shall plant no trees on public rights-of-way
without the consent of the adjacent property owners. Such consent shall be in
writing and shall be maintained as part of the official Tree Board records.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or city
department to top any state tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
For the purpose of this section, TOPPING is the severe cutting back of limbs to
stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a
degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or
other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical, may be
exempted from this section at the determination of the City Tree Board.
   (N)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp, and there shall be a clear space of eight feet
above the surface of all sidewalks, except as providing elsewhere in the city’s
zoning regulations.
   (O)   (1)   All trees that are in a diseased, dying or dead condition are
declared to be a public nuisance and shall be removed by the property owner
from the private property on which they are located. For the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of this section, the city police shall have the
authority to enter on private property to inspect the trees thereon. In the
event that the trees are diseased or dead, notice shall be given to the owner
of the property by mail or personal service and such notice shall allow said
owner 20 days to remove said tree or trees. In the event that the owner is a
nonresident, notice shall be made by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation, or by certified mail if the name and address is known. The person
in charge with the removal may enter into an agreement with the city that such
work be accomplished by the city and the expense and interest shall be declared
to be a lien upon such property from the time the same becomes due until paid.
If the owner fails, neglects or refuses to enter into such an agreement, or to
remove the trees, the city may enter upon the property and proceed to direct
the removal of the trees and the cost thereof shall be chargeable to the
property owner.
      (2)   If the owner fails to reimburse the city after being properly
billed, the costs shall be assessed against the property and certified by the
City Clerk/Treasurer to the County Treasurer to be collected in the manner
prescribed by law. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the
county in which the property lies, the city shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
   (P)   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface
of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface
of the ground.
   (Q)   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere
with the City Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street
trees, park trees or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this section.
   (R)   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the City Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or
order of the City Tree Board to the City Council who may hear the matter and
make final decision.
(Prior Code, § 32.07) (Ord. 418-00, passed 1-24-2000; Ord. 474-05, passed 4-25-
2005; Ord. 593-21, passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.08 BOARD OF PUBLIC TRUST.
   (A)   Members. Pursuant to the provision of Neb. RS 17-501, as amended,
there is hereby established for the city and there shall be hereafter
maintained a Board of Public Trust in the city. The Board of Public Trust shall
consist of five members who shall be resident freeholders of the city. The
members of the Board of Public Trust shall be elected by the City Council, and
initially one member shall be elected for a term of one year, one member for a
term of two years, one member for a term of three years, one member for a term
of four years and one member for a term of five years, and thereafter, one
member shall be elected each year for a term of five years. Vacancies in the
membership of the Board of Public Trust shall be filled in a like manner as
members of the Board are elected.
   (B)   Meetings and officers. The Board of Public Trust shall meet at least
twice annually and at such other times as deemed appropriate as the Board by
its own rules shall determine. At the initial meeting each year, there shall be
elected from the members thereof a Chairperson and a Secretary. The Chairperson
shall preside at all meetings of the Board and shall sign all warrants for
money to be paid from the city endowment and shall execute and sign all
contracts, leases and such other written instruments on behalf of the Board as
may be necessary or proper in conducting the business of the Board. The
Secretary shall keep a true and complete record of all the proceedings of the
Board, shall draw and countersign all warrants for payment of money out of said
city endowment funds, shall attest to all contracts and other written
instruments of the Board, shall keep a true and accurate account of the
receipts and expenditures of the Board and shall file a report, at least
quarterly, of the same with the City Clerk to be presented at the next regular
meeting of the City Council. No warrants shall be issued on the city endowment
except on claims filed, audited and allowed by action of the Board of Public
Trust or by a majority of the members thereof at regular or special meeting of
the Board, and the minutes of the proceedings of the Board shall set forth in
detail the allowance, disallowance or other disposition of all claims filed.
   (C)   Duties.
      (1)   The duties of the Board shall include the receipt, control,
management, investment, reinvestment and disbursement of income and principal
derived from donations in trust to the city endowment, which donations shall be
disbursed only for the uses and purposes for which the donor shall designate
his or her donation. The City Council or the Board of Public Trust, in their
discretion, may refuse gifts containing conditions that are unacceptable or
inappropriate for the city. All income derived from donations shall accrue to
the benefit of the project for which the donation was made. The principal of a
donation shall not be expended by the Board of Public Trust unless specifically
authorized in writing by the donor. All income derived from donations shall
accrue to the benefit of the project for which the donation was made.
      (2)   All donations shall be held and treated by the Board strictly and
solely as trust property to be applied exclusively for the purpose or purposes
for which the donation was made; provided, however, in the event a donation is
made and no specific purpose is designated therefor by the donor, the Board
shall apply such donation to any municipal undertaking for which the city is
authorized by law to accept donations. If, in the judgment of the Board of
Public Trust, the conditions placed upon a gift by a donor are no longer needed
for the designated purpose of the gift, the directions or conditions of the
donor can no longer by fulfilled, continued fulfillment of the directions or
conditions of the donor would be wasteful or the directions or conditions made
by donor are contrary to the best interest of the city, the Board of Public
Trust, upon a three-fifths vote, may modify the conditions placed upon the gift
by the donor; provided, however, that if the donor or donor’s spouse is alive
and competent, donor’s spouse’s agreement with the modifications shall be
required before codifications are implemented.
   (D)   Powers. The Board of Public Trust shall have those powers necessary to
fulfill the duties of said Board including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   To acquire an undivided interest in a trust asset;
      (2)   To retain, invest and reinvest trust assets in accordance with the
provisions of the city endowment or as provided by law applicable to trustees;
      (3)   To acquire or dispose of an asset for cash or on credit, at public
or private sale; and to manage, develop, improve, exchange, partition, change
the character of or abandon a trust asset or any interest therein; provided,
however, that no real estate shall be sold by the Board of Public Trust unless
such sale is approved by majority vote of the City Council, and provided
further that publication of the sale is made as provided by the statutes of the
state;
      (4)   To make ordinary or extraordinary repairs or alterations in
buildings or other structures, to demolish any improvements, to raise existing
or erect new structures or buildings;
      (5)   To subdivide, develop or dedicate land to public use; to make or
obtain the vacation of plots and adjust boundaries; to adjust differences in
valuation on exchange or a partition by giving or receiving consideration; or
to dedicate easements to public use without consideration;
      (6)   To enter for any purpose into a lease as lessor or lessee with or
without option to purchase or renew;
      (7)   To grant an option involving disposition of a trust asset or to
take an option for acquisition of any asset;
      (8)   To vote a security in person or by general or limited proxy;
      (9)   To insure the assets of the city endowment against damage or loss
and the Board of Public Trust against liability with respect to third persons;
      (10)   To payor contest any claim; to settle a claim by or against the
Board of Public Trust by compromise, arbitration or otherwise; and to release,
in whole or in part, any claim belonging to the city endowment to the extent
that the claim is uncollectible;
      (11)   To pay taxes, assessments and other expenses incurred in the
collection, care, administration and protection of the trust assets;
      (12)   To employ persons, including attorneys, accountants, investment
advisers or agents, to advise or assist the Board of Public Trust in the
performance of its administrative duties; to act without independent
investigation on their recommendations; and, instead of acting personally, to
employ one or more agents to perform any act of administration, whether or not
discretionary;
      (13)   To prosecute or defend any actions, claims or proceedings for the
protection of the assets held by the Board of Public Trust in performance of
its duties; and
      (14)   To execute and deliver all instruments which will accomplish or
facilitate the exercise of powers vested in the Board of Public Trust.
   (E)   Members, compensation, expenses of members, funding by the city. The
members of the Board of Public Trust shall serve without compensation but shall
be entitled to reimbursement of actual and necessary expenses incurred by
members in the performance of their duties and powers. Said reimbursement may
be made from the unrestricted income and unrestricted principal held by the
Board of Public Trust. The City Council may allocate funding for the benefit of
the Board of Public Trust for the purpose of paying the actual and necessary
expenses of the members and any other expenses incurred by the Board of Public
Trust. In the event expenses are incurred with respect to endowment property,
those expenses may be paid from the income of said city endowment property,
even though a donor has designated a particular use or purpose for which the
donation shall be used. Said expenses shall be considered a specific charge
against the income generated by said donation. The remaining income generated
by donation restricted in its use and purpose shall be applied to that use and
purpose.
   (F)   Council. The Board of Public Trust shall be accountable to the City
Council for all actions, and the City Council may at any time require a report
from the Board of Public Trust as to matters within its control.
   (G)   Trust account, creation. All monies received by the Board of Public
Trust, either from rentals interest or other income, together with the monies
received from the sale or exchange of any property held by the Board of Public
Trust shall be deposited with the City Treasurer in an account designated as
the city endowment. The funds representing the corpus of said endowment, or any
part thereof, shall be promptly reinvested by the Board as provided in this
section. The Board shall from time to time, but not less frequently than once
each year, authorize and direct the City Treasurer to distribute among the
beneficiaries entitled thereto under the instruments creating this trust, or
under the direction of designations of any donor, such sums as may be in the
city endowment representing income from said trust funds or property; provided,
however, that the Board may retain from time to time such amounts of money as
may be necessary or advisable to properly meet Board expenses or management
costs of the property under its control or to accumulate money for the purpose
of a future expenditure as deemed advisable by the Board.
(Ord. 355, passed 1-11-1988)
§ 32.09 SPORTS COMPLEX BOARD.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint the Sports Complex Board. The Board
shall be composed of five members who shall be residents of the area included
in the Scribner-Snyder School District, and members shall serve a five-year
term, with one member being appointed or reappointed in January of each year.
   (B)   The Board shall serve without compensation and may be required, in the
discretion of the governing body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of
the governing body, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their
duties.
   (C)   At the Board’s first meeting in January of each year, the Board shall
organize by selecting from its number a Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be
the duty of the Chairperson to preside at the meetings of the Board. It shall
be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records
of all meetings, and to file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
   (D)   A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council
may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or
any two of the Board members.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Board to have general charge of the Robert
Hunt Family Sports Complex and to establish appropriate rules, regulations and
policies for the operation, management, care, maintenance and use of the same.
The Board shall have supervisory authority over all employees of the sports
complex.
   (F)   (1)   All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the governing body. The Board shall make a monthly report in
writing to the governing body of its acts and doings.
      (2)   No member of the governing body shall serve as a member of the
Sports Complex Board while serving a term of office as a member of the
governing body. No member of the Sports Complex Board shall serve in the
capacity of both Chairperson and the Secretary of the Board.
(Ord. 506-09, passed 10-26-2009)
**** FIRE DEPARTMENT ****
§ 32.20 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city may operate a Fire Department through the Fire Chief and
firefighters.
   (B)   The city shall have the power to procure fire engines, hooks, ladders,
buckets and other apparatus, to organize fire engine, hook and ladder and
bucket companies, to prescribe rules of duty and the government of the Fire
Department with such penalties as the City Council may deem proper, not
exceeding the amount set out in the Master Fee Schedule, and to make all
necessary appropriations for the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 17-147)
   (C)   If the city has only a voluntary Fire Department or companies, the
City Council may levy a tax annually of not more than $0.07 on each $100, or as
otherwise set out in the Master Fee Schedule, upon the taxable value of all the
taxable property within the city for the maintenance and benefit of the Fire
Department or companies. The amount of such tax shall be established at the
beginning of the year and shall be included in the adopted budget statement.
Upon collection of such tax, the City Treasurer shall disburse the same upon
the order of the Fire Chief with the approval of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-718)
Statutory reference:
   Fire station acquisition, construction and maintenance, see Neb. RS 17-953
et seq.
§ 32.21 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way they may
decide, subject to the review of the City Council.
   (B)   The volunteer Fire Department shall not have upon its rolls at one
time more than 25 persons for each engine and hose company in the Fire
Department, and no hook and ladder company shall have upon its rolls at any one
time more than 25 members. No organization shall be deemed to be a bona fide
fire or hook and ladder company until it has procured for active service
apparatus for the extinguishment or prevention of fires, in case of a hose
company, to the value of the amount set out in the Master Fee Schedule, and of
a hook and ladder company, to the value also set out in the Master Fee
Schedule.
(Neb. RS 35-102)
   (C)   Members in good standing are those who keep their dues promptly paid
up and are present and render active service when called out for the legitimate
purposes of the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 35-103)
   (D)   (1)   Volunteer firefighters of the Fire Department shall be deemed
employees of the city while in the performance of their duties as members of
the Department. Members of the volunteer Fire Department, before they are
entitled to benefits under the State Workers’ Compensation Act, Neb. RS 48-101
et seq., shall be recommended by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to
act for the Chief for membership therein to the Mayor and City Council and,
upon confirmation, shall be deemed employees of the city. Members of the Fire
Department after confirmation to membership may be removed by a majority vote
of the City Council, and thereafter, shall not be considered employees of the
city.
      (2)   Firefighters of the Fire Department shall be considered as acting
in the performance and within the course and scope of their employment when
performing activities outside of the corporate limits of the city, but only if
directed to do so by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the
Chief.
(Neb. RS 48-115)
   (E)   (1)   The City Council shall purchase and maintain in force a policy
of group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the active
volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such person serves
more than one city or rural or suburban fire protection district, the policy
shall be purchased only by the first city or district which he or she serves.
      (2)   The policy shall provide a minimum death benefit as set out in the
Master Fee Schedule for death from any cause and shall, at the option of the
insured, be convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at age 65.
      (3)   The coverage of such policy shall terminate as to any individual
who ceases to be an active volunteer member of the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 35-108)
   (F)   For the purpose of the prohibition on receipt of any witness fee,
attendance fee or mileage fee by an employee of the city called as a witness in
connection with his or her officially assigned duties, volunteer firefighters
and rescue squad members testifying in that capacity alone shall not be deemed
employees of the city.
(Neb. RS 33-139.01)
   (G)   The City Council may compensate or reimburse any member of the Fire
Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an amount
set by resolution.
   (H)   (1)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such
rules and regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or
required of them by the Fire Chief or the City Council.
      (2)   The members of the Fire Department shall, during the time of a fire
or great public danger, have and exercise the powers and duties of police
officers and shall have full power and authority to arrest all persons guilty
of any violation of the city code or the laws of the state.
   (I)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the City Council. The Secretary shall, upon
request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the City
Council of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
§ 32.22 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings
of the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, and a record of
all fires and shall make a full report of these records to the City Clerk
during the last week in April each year.
   (B)   The record of any fire shall include the cause, origin, circumstances,
property involved, and whether criminal conduct may have been involved. In the
event of sizable property damage, the Fire Chief shall include the information
of whether the losses were covered by insurance, and if so, in what amount. All
records shall be available to the public at any reasonable time.
§ 32.23 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the city, and to secure the
observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and regulations with respect
to fires and fire prevention.
§ 32.24 DISTANT FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the permission of the Mayor or Fire Chief, or pursuant to any
agreement with a fire district for mutual aid protection, such fire equipment
of the city as may be designated by the City Council as rural equipment may be
used beyond the corporate limits to extinguish reported fires.
   (B)   The firefighters of the city shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the city when directed to do
so by the City Council or the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for
the Chief, and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the city as may be
designated by the City Council.
§ 32.25 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the finding that the city code has been violated, the Fire
Chief shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant or manager of
the premises where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or
by delivering a copy to the premises and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the premises.
      (2)   Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order upon the owner,
the order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy to the owner’s last
known post office address if the owner is absent from the jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the owner,
occupant or manager of the premises or building. The owner, occupant or manager
may, within five days after the order by the Fire Chief or his or her agent,
appeal the order with the City Council requesting a review, and it shall be the
duty of the City Council to hear the same within not less than five days nor
more than ten days from the time when the request was filed in writing with the
City Clerk.
      (2)   The City Council shall then affirm, modify or rescind the order as
safety and justice may require, and the decision shall then be final, subject
only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or equity. The
order shall be modified or rescinded only where it is evident that reasonable
safety exists and that conditions necessitate a variance due to the probable
hardship in complying literally with the order of the Fire Chief. A copy of any
decision so made shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the owner, occupant
or manager making the appeal.
**** POLICE DEPARTMENT ****
§ 32.40 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such
further number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by resolution
of the Council. The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the
Mayor, have control and management of all matters relating to the Police
Department, its officers and members and shall have the custody and control of
all property and books belonging to the Department. The Chief shall devote his
or her whole time to the municipal affairs and interests of the municipality
and to the preservation of peace, order, safety and cleanliness thereof. The
Department shall execute and enforce all laws and also the orders of the Mayor.
It shall be the duty of the Department to protect the rights of persons and
property.
   (B)   The Department shall take notice of all nuisances, impediments,
obstructions and defects in the streets, avenues, alleys, business places and
residences of the municipality. The Department shall execute, or cause to be
executed, the processes issued and shall cause all persons arrested to be
brought before the proper court for trial as speedily as possible. The Chief of
Police and all regular and special police officers shall become thoroughly
conversant with the laws of the municipality and shall see that the same are
strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against any person or persons
for violation of the same.
(Prior Code, § 32.35) (Ord. 429-01, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 32.41 RESERVE OFFICER BOND.
   No appointment of a law enforcement reserve officer shall be valid until a
bond in the amount set out in the Master Fee Schedule, payable to the city, has
been filed with the Municipal Clerk by the individual appointed, or a blanket
surety bond arranged and paid for by the City Council and bonding all such
officers of the City Council has been filed. Such bonds shall be subject to the
provisions of Neb. RS Chapter 11, Article 1.
(Prior Code, § 32.36) (Ord. 429-01, passed 8-27-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-1444
§ 32.42 OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY.
   (A)   No police officer, including the Chief of Police, shall be
disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed or discharged except upon written
notice stating the reasons for such disciplinary action, suspension, demotion,
removal or discharge. Such notice shall also contain a statement informing the
police officer of his or her right to a hearing before the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   Any police officer so disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed
or discharged may, within ten days after being notified of such disciplinary
action, suspension, demotion, removal or discharge, file with the Municipal
Clerk/Treasurer a written demand for a hearing before the City Council.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the matter for hearing not less than ten
nor more than 20 days after the filing of the written demand for a hearing.
      (3)   The City Council shall give the police officer written notice of
the hearing not less than seven nor more than 14 days prior to the hearing.
   (C)   At the hearing, the police officer shall have the right to:
      (1)   Respond in person to the charges and to present witnesses and
documentary evidence;
      (2)   Confront and cross-examine available adverse witnesses; and
      (3)   To be represented by counsel.
   (D)   (1)   Not later than 30 days following the adjournment of the meeting
at which the hearing was held, the City Council shall vote to uphold, reverse
or modify the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal or discharge.
      (2)   The failure of the City Council to act within 30 days or the
failure of a majority of the elected Council members to vote to reverse or
modify the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal or discharge
shall be construed as a vote to uphold the disciplinary action, suspension,
demotion, removal or discharge.
      (3)   The decision of the City Council shall be based upon its
determination that, under the facts and evidence presented at the hearing, the
challenged disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal or discharge was
necessary for the proper management and the effective operation of the Police
Department in the performance of its duties under the state statutes.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the preemptory
suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer, pending the hearing
authorized by this section, in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty or
disobedience of orders.
(Prior Code, § 32.37) (Ord. 429-01, passed 8-27-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
Section
Meetings
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
33.03   Notice to news media
   
33.04   Council meetings; when; quorum; votes
   
33.05   Special meetings
   
33.06   Emergency meetings
   
33.07   Closed sessions
   
33.08   Public participation
   
33.09   City Council; order of business
   
33.10   Organizational meetings
   
33.11   Votes
   
33.12   Minutes
Bonds and Oaths
   
33.25   Blanket bond
   
33.26   Oath of office; city officials
Compensation; Conflicts of Interest
   
33.40   City officials and employees
   
33.41   Conflict of interest involving contracts
 
   
33.99   Penalty
**** MEETINGS ****
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETINGS. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy or the taking of any action.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The City Council of the municipality;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies, now or hereafter created by
constitution, statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   This subchapter shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies
unless a quorum of the PUBLIC BODY attends a subcommittee meeting or unless
such subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action
on behalf of their parent body.
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 259, passed 7-12-1976; Ord. 384, passed 4-26-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409
§ 33.02 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   (1)   All public meetings as defined by law shall be held in a public
building located within the city which shall be open to attendance by the
public. All meetings shall be held in the public building in which the City
Council usually holds such meetings unless the publicized notice hereinafter
required shall designate some other public building or other specified place.
The advance publicized notice of all public, convened meetings shall be
transmitted to all members of the Council and to the public by a method
designated by the Council. Such notice shall contain the time and specific
place for each meeting and either an enumeration of the agenda subjects known
at the time of the notice or a statement that such an agenda, kept continually
current, shall be available for public inspection at the office of the City
Clerk. Agenda items shall be sufficiently descriptive to give the public
reasonable notice of the matters to be considered at the meeting. The city
shall have the right to modify the agenda at the public meeting when convened.
      (2)   The minutes of the City Clerk shall include a record of the manner
by which the advance publicized notice was given, the time and specific place
of each meeting and the names of each member of the Council present or absent
at each convened meeting.
   (B)   Any official action on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be taken only by roll call vote of the City Council in open session. The
record of the City Clerk shall show how each member voted or that the member
was absent and did not vote.
   (C)   Any formal actions taken at any public meeting not in conformity with
the provisions of this section shall be deemed to be void.
   (D)   This section does not apply to chance meetings or to attendance at or
travel to conventions or workshops of the City Council at which there is no
meeting of the Board then intentionally convened, if there is no vote or other
action taken regarding any matter over which the Council has supervision,
control, jurisdiction or advisory power.
   (E)   The City Council shall make available at least one current copy of the
Open Meetings Act, to be posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to
members of the public. At the beginning of each meeting, the public shall be
informed about the location of the posted information.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 259, passed 7-12-1976; Ord. 490-07, passed 8-27-
2007) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.03 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Municipal Clerk, Secretary or other designee of each public body shall
maintain a list of the news media requesting notification of meetings and shall
make reasonable efforts to provide advance notification to them of the time and
place of each meeting and the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Prior Code, § 33.09) (Ord. 259, passed 7-12-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411(4)
§ 33.04 COUNCIL MEETINGS; WHEN; QUORUM; VOTES.
   (A)   Meetings are at the City Clerk’s office on the fourth Monday of each
month at 6:30 p.m.
   (B)   A majority of all the members elected to the City Council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but a smaller number
may adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of absent members.
Whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent for and
compelled to attend.
   (C)   Unless a greater vote is required by law, an affirmative vote of at
least one-half of the elected members shall be required for the transaction of
any business.
   (D)   (1)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall
proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present.
If a quorum is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if
present, or if absent, by the President of the Council.
      (2)   In the absence of both the Mayor and the President of the Council,
the City Council members shall elect a President pro tempore.
(Prior Code, § 33.03) (Ord. 583-19, passed 12-23-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-105
§ 33.05 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or by three members of the
City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the Council in writing.
The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon
the journal by the Municipal Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-106)
   (B)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer shall notify the Council members of the special meeting, stating the
time and its purpose. Notice of a special meeting need not be given to a
Council member known to be out of the state or physically unable to be present.
   (C)   All ordinances passed at any special meeting shall comply with
procedures set forth in §§
30.45 through
30.51.
(Prior Code, § 33.04)
§ 33.06 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
33.03 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any
formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no
later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Prior Code, § 33.06) (Ord. 259, passed 7-12-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411(4)
§ 33.07 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor and Council may hold a closed session by an affirmative vote
of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly necessary
for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of needless
injury to the reputation of an individual if such individual has not requested
a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating the closed
session shall be identified in the motion to close.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for discussion
of the appointment or election of a new member to the Council.
   (C)   (1)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open
session. The entire motion to close, the vote of each member on the holding of
a closed session and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded
shall be recorded in the minutes.
      (2)   If the motion passes, then the Mayor shall, immediately prior to
the closed session, restate on the record the limitation of the subject matter
of the closed session. In holding such a closed session, the Council shall
restrict its consideration of matters during the closed portion to only those
purposes set forth in the motion to close as the reason for the closed session.
   (D)   Any member of the Council shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session.
Such challenge shall be overruled only by a majority of the members of the
Council. Such challenge and its disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (E)   Closed sessions shall include the City Clerk and Attorney unless such
parties are the subject of the closed session.
(Prior Code, § 33.05) (Ord. 259, passed 7-12-1976; Ord. 385, passed 4-26-1993;
Ord. 466-05, passed 2-28-2005; Ord. 490-07, passed 8-27-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1410
§ 33.08 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the public shall have
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to §
33.07, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast or recorded by any
person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera, video equipment or
any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for any public body to
make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings. A body may not be required to allow
citizens to speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation
at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (D)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (E)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting.
(Prior Code, § 33.10) (Ord. 259, passed 7-12-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1412
§ 33.09 CITY COUNCIL; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the City Council, the Mayor, the City Clerk, and such other city
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the city shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the City Clerk.
§ 33.10 ORGANIZATIONAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The newly elected Council shall convene at the regular place of
meeting in the city on the first regular meeting in December of each year in
which a municipal election is held immediately after the prior Council adjourns
and proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor elected for
the new municipal year shall call the meeting to order. The Council shall then
proceed to examine the credentials of its members and other elective officers
of the city to see that each has been duly and properly elected, and to see
that such oaths and bonds have been given as are required. After ascertaining
that all members are duly qualified, the Council shall then elect one of its
own body who shall be styled as President of the Council. The Mayor shall then
nominate candidates for appointive offices. He or she shall then proceed with
the regular order of business. It is hereby made the duty of each and every
member of the Council, or his or her successor in office, and of each officer
elected to any office to qualify prior to the first regular meeting in December
following election.
   (B)   (1)   All appointive officers shall qualify within two weeks following
their appointments.
      (2)   Qualification for each officer who is not required to give bond
shall consist in subscribing and taking an oath to support the Constitution of
the United States, the Constitution of the state, the laws of the municipality
and to perform faithfully and impartially the duties of office, said oath to be
filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk. Each officer who is required to
give a bond shall file the required bond in the office of the Municipal Clerk
with sufficient sureties, conditioned on the faithful discharge of the duties
of his or her office, with the oath endorsed thereon.
(Prior Code, § 33.12) (Ord. 255, passed 7-12-1976)
§ 33.11 VOTES.
   (A)   (1)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and
seconded shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the
record shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not
voting.
      (2)   The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be
satisfied by the municipality utilizing an electronic voting device which
allows the yeas and nays of each member of the City Council to be readily seen
by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Prior Code, § 33.08) (Ord. 259, passed 7-12-1976; Ord. 281, passed 1-2-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-105, 17-616, 84-1413(2) and 84-1413(3)
§ 33.12 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
The minutes shall also include a record of the manner and time by which the
advance publicized notice was given and a statement of how the availability of
an agenda of the then-known subjects was communicated.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
at the office of the City Clerk during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten
working days or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier,
except that the city may have an additional ten working days if the employee
responsible for writing the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or
emergency.
(Prior Code, § 33.07) (Ord. 259, passed 7-12-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1412 and 84-1413(1), (4)(5), (6)
**** BONDS AND OATHS ****
§ 33.25 BLANKET BOND.
   From and after the effective date herein and pursuant to Neb. RS 11-104(2),
all surety and other bonds required by city ordinances or by state law for city
officials may be provided by the purchase of a blanket bond, undertaking or
equivalent insurance. The city may pay the premium for the bond or insurance
coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a minimum, an aggregate
of the amounts fixed by the law or by the City Council requiring such bond or
undertaking and on such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Ord. 493-07, passed 10-22-2007)
§ 33.26 OATH OF OFFICE; CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the city, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath, which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds.
      “I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
**** COMPENSATION; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST ****
§ 33.40 CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Compensation amounts of city officials and employees, fees and charges for
providing municipal services to the customers of such services and minimum
fines for violation of municipal ordinances may be established from time to
time by ordinance or resolution as required or permitted by state law. Any such
ordinance or resolution shall be on file with the City Clerk, available for
public inspection during normal office hours. Such ordinances containing
compensation, fees, charges and fines shall be published as required by law but
it shall not be required that they be incorporated as part of the general
ordinances in book form.
(Prior Code, § 33.45) (Ord. 537-14, passed 4-28-2014)
§ 33.41 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value, or which represents more than a 5% equity interest,
or is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair
market value, or which represents more than 10% equity interest, or other such
amounts set out in the Master Fee Schedule.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the city which spends
and administers its own funds who is dealing with a contract made by such board
or commission; or
            2.   Any elected city official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by the decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, governing body or any resident within the jurisdiction of
the governing body and shall be brought within one year after the contract is
signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of any person
for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor or services
furnished under the contract to the extent the governing body has benefited
thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting the performance of work under
the contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body, with all members present, from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matter; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for the purpose of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   (a)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing
body shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. through (G)(1)(b)5. below about
every contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the
body has an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C)
above.
         (b)   This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from
the date of the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
            1.   The names of the contracting parties;
            2.   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
            3.   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
            4.   The amount of the contract; and
            5.   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
not later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) above
contracts involving $100 or less, or another amount set out in the Master Fee
Schedule, in which an officer of that body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any official who shall violate the provisions of §
33.02 shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 259, passed 7-12-1976; Ord. 490-07, passed 8-27-
2007)
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Generally
   
34.02   Registered voters; qualifications
   
34.03   Special elections
   
34.04   Election of officers; certifications required
   
34.05   Officers; terms; qualifications
   
34.06   Filing fee
§ 34.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   The municipal primary and general election shall be held in
accordance with the provisions of Neb. RS Chapter 32. Said elections shall be
held in conjunction with the state primary and general election. Prior to
February 1 of the year in which the first such joint election takes place, the
governing body shall receive the consent in writing of the county board to so
hold the election and such authorization shall be prescribed according to state
law. The County Clerk shall have charge of the election and shall have the
authority to deputize the Municipal Clerk for municipal election purposes.
      (2)   Commencing with the statewide primary election in 1976, and every
two years thereafter, those candidates for Mayor and for positions on the City
Council whose terms will be expiring shall be nominated at the statewide
primary election and elected at the statewide general election.
   (B)   The candidates shall be placed on the general election ballot and the
candidates receiving the greatest number of votes shall be elected to terms of
the longest duration, and those receiving the next greatest number of votes
shall be elected to the remaining term or terms. The County Clerk shall place
the names of the candidates on the general election ballot in the direct order
according to the number of votes received at the primary election. If no
primary election was held, the names of the candidates shall be placed upon the
general election ballot in the order of their filing. The term of office of all
such members shall commence on the first regular meeting of the Council in
December following their election.
(Ord. 289, passed 1-2-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-505
§ 34.02 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the city
on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all city elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 34.03 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified
by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days
prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as provided in
Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election shall be subject to
division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of such issue other than the
notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue ballots for
early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots shall be counted
and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the other ballots.
Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the election results to the
City Council. The canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same
force and effect as if made by the City Council.
   (B)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election
Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq., in April, May, June, October, November or
December of an even-numbered year unless it is held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
(Prior Code, § 34.02) (Ord. 454-04, passed 2-23-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-405 and 32-559
§ 34.04 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All municipal elections involving the election of officers shall be
held in accordance with the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq., and in
conjunction with the statewide primary or general election.
   (B)   No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council
shall certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner or the
County Clerk the name of the municipality, the number of officers to be
elected, the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by
election and length of remaining term and the number of votes to be cast by a
registered voter for each office.
(Prior Code, § 34.03) (Ord. 260, passed 7-12-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-404(2) and 32-556
§ 34.05 OFFICERS; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor and Council members shall be residents and registered voters
of the municipality.
   (B)   The members of the City Council shall be elected at large. No person
shall be eligible to the office of Council member who is not at the time of the
election an actual resident of the ward for which he or she is elected and a
registered voter.
(Prior Code, § 34.04)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-103, 17-104, 17-107, 17-108.02 and 32-554
§ 34.06 FILING FEE.
   A filing fee shall be paid to the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer by or on behalf
of each candidate prior to filing for office. The filing fee shall be a sum
equal to 1% of the annual salary such candidate will receive if he or she is
elected and qualifies for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
The fee shall be placed in the General Fund of the municipality. No candidate
filing forms shall be filed until the proper receipt showing payment of such
filing fee is presented to the filing officer.
(Prior Code, § 34.05) (Ord. 290, passed 1-2-1979)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
35.02   Annual audit; financial statements
   
35.03   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
35.04   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
35.05   Deposit of funds
   
35.06   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
35.07   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
35.08   Bond issues
   
35.09   Sale of city property
Annual Budget
   
35.20   Fiscal year
   
35.21   Budget procedures
   
35.22   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of amount
to be received from taxation
   
35.23   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
Tax Levies
   
35.35   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
   
35.36   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
Master Fee Schedule
   
35.50   Master Fee Schedule
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 35.01 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace or add to the electric distribution,
transmission or generation system of the municipality, no contract for
enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public
heating system, bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when
the cost of such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property,
costing over the amount set out in the Master Fee Schedule, shall be made
unless it is first approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the City Council makes
any contract in excess of said amount set out in the Master Fee Schedule for
enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public
heating system, bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when
the cost of such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an
estimate of the cost shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to
the City Council. In advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (D)
below, the City Council may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over said amount set out in the Master Fee Schedule entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets or any other work or
improvement when the cost of such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of such
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the municipality or county. In case
of a public emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases,
destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war or an exigency or pressing necessity
or unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths vote of the City
Council and entered of record.
   (E)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the City
Council receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received by
the City Council contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the City
Council may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the proposed
enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the estimate
given.
   (F)   Any municipal bidding procedure may be waived by the City Council when
materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and from the same seller
as materials or equipment which have formerly been obtained pursuant to the
state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 73-801 et seq.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (G)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule charter, a
municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any county,
a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property without
competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established by the
Federal General Services Administration or the material division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 261, passed 7-12-1976; Ord. 314, passed 3-3-1980;
Ord. 410-98, passed 10-26-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1756 and 73-101 et seq.
§ 35.02 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the municipal accounts
to be made by a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the
close of the fiscal year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method
at the discretion of the City Council. The audit shall be completed and the
annual audit report made not later than six months after the close of the
fiscal year.
      (2)   The accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three
copies of the audit report to the City Council. All public utilities or other
enterprises which substantially generate their own revenue shall be audited
separately, and the results of such audits shall appear separately in the
annual audit report, and such audits shall be on an accrual basis and shall
contain statements and materials which conform to generally accepted accounting
principles.
      (3)   The audit report shall set forth the financial position and results
of financial operations for each fund or group of accounts of the municipality
as well as an opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial
statements. Two copies of the annual audit report shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk, and shall become a part of the public records of the Municipal
Clerk’s office, and will at all times thereafter be open for public inspection.
One copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
   (B)   The City Council shall provide and file with the Municipal Clerk not
later than August 1 of each year financial statements showing its actual and
budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 292, passed 1-2-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-606 and 19-2901 through 19-2909
§ 35.03 ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall have no power to appropriate, issue
or draw any order or warrant on the City Treasurer for money unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of Neb. RS 17-714 and 17-715, and funds for the class or object out
of which such claim is payable have been included in the adopted budget
statement or transferred according to law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the City Council, or any
committee or member, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the officers or
departments of the city, whether the object of the expenditures shall have been
ordered by the City Council or not, unless an appropriation shall have been
previously made concerning such expense, except as otherwise expressly provided
in division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 17-709)
   (C)   All warrants drawn upon the City Treasurer must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which the
same is chargeable, the person to whom payable, and for what particular object.
No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so drawn. Each warrant
shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement for such fund
upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 35.04 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this section, as
stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated shall vest
in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who shall become the
owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In the event
of a donation of real estate, the City Council may manage such real estate as
in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library purposes under
the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each
$100 in any one year, or other such amount set out in the Master Fee Schedule,
upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within the city for a term
of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the amount of tax which may be
annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget statement of the city,
for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the construction, purchase,
improvement, extension, original equipment or repair, not including
maintenance, of any one or more of the following public improvements, including
acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof: city libraries; city
auditoriums or community houses for social or recreational purposes; city
halls; city public libraries, auditoriums or community houses in a single
building; city swimming pools; city jails; city fire stations, together with
firefighting equipment or apparatus; city parks; city cemeteries; city medical
buildings, together with furnishings and equipment; or city hospitals. The city
shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as
provided in this division (B) if, having bonded indebtedness, such city has
been in default in the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a
period of ten years prior to the date of the passage of the resolution
providing for the submission of the proposition for establishment of the
sinking fund as required in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvements mentioned in division (B)
above by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to
submit to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election
the proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned
under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set
forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the estimated cost
according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy over a definite
period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide such cost, and
the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be established
to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of the
proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the proposition, shall be published in its entirety three successive
weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the city or, if no legal newspaper is in or of general
circulation in the city, in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the county in which the city is located. No such sinking fund shall be
established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more of the
legal votes of the city cast for or against the proposition. If less than a
majority of the legal votes favor establishment of the sinking fund, the
planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied therefor,
and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in connection
therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be repealed. If
the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner prescribed in this
division (C), the City Council and its successors in office shall proceed to do
all things authorized under such resolution of submission but never
inconsistent with this section. The election provided for under this section
shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in §
35.07. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the City
Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the City
Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or sinking
funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section shall constitute a
special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the same was
authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless authorized by 60%
of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general election favoring
such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds. The question of
the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds, when it fails to
carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of one year from and
after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 35.05 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on deposit,
for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions or qualifying
mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing, all money
collected, received or held by him or her as City Treasurer. Such deposits
shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the City
Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a stockholder,
director or other officer of such bank, capital stock financial institution or
qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as Mayor, as a member
of the City Council, as a member of the Board of Public Works or as any other
officer of the city shall not disqualify such bank, capital stock financial
institution or qualifying mutual financial institution from acting as a
depository for such municipal funds.
   (B)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions: a bond in such penal
sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the amount insured
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or, in lieu thereof, security
given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security Act, being Neb. RS 77-
2386 et seq., to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The
City Council shall approve such bond or giving of security. The City Treasurer
shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of the
failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
   (C)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
to the extent that the deposits are insured by such corporation, and for
deposits so insured, no other surety bond or other security shall be required.
   (D)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Prior Code, § 35.06) (Ord. 408-98, passed 10-26-1998; Ord. 455-04, passed 2-
23-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-607, 77-2362 through 77-2364 and 77-2386
through 77-23,106
§ 35.06 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City Council
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank or capital stock financial institution in the state, to
the extent that such certificates of deposit or time deposits are insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of
the amounts so secured by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit
shall be secured by a bond or by security given in the manner provided in this
section. The provisions of Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital
stock financial institutions.
   (B)   (1)   For the security of the fund so deposited, the City Treasurer
shall require each depository to give bond for the safekeeping and payment of
such deposits and the accretions thereof, which bond shall run to the
municipality and be approved by the Mayor. The bond shall be conditioned that
such a depository shall, at the end of every quarter, render to the Treasurer a
statement in duplicate, showing the several daily balance, the amount of money
of the municipality held by it during the quarter, the amount of the accretion
thereto and how credited.
      (2)   The bond shall also be conditioned that the depository shall
generally do and perform whatever may be required by the provisions of this
section, and all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the governing body
for the receiving and holding thereof and shall faithfully discharge the trust
reposed in the depository.
      (3)   The bond shall be as nearly practicable in the form provided in
Neb. RS 77-2364. No person in any way connected with any depository as an
officer or stockholder shall be accepted as a surety on any bond given by the
depository or which he or she is an officer or stockholder. The bond shall be
deposited with City Clerk.
   (C)   In lieu of the bond required by division (B) above, any bank or
capital stock financial institution making application to become a depository
may give security to the City Clerk, as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act. The penal sum of such bond shall be equal to or greater than the
amount of the deposit in excess of the portion of such deposit insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
   (D)   (1)   The Treasurer shall not have on deposit in any bank or capital
stock financial institution at any time more than the amount insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation plus the maximum amount insured by the
bank or capital stock financial institution if the bank or capital stock
financial institution gives a surety bond, nor in any bank or capital stock
financial institution giving a personal bond, more than the amount insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation plus one-half of the amount of the
board of such bank or capital stock financial institution, and the amount so on
deposit any time with any such bank or capital stock financial institution
shall not in either case exceed the amount insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation plus the paid-up capital stock and surplus of such bank
or capital stock financial institution.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss sustained by reason
of the failure of any such bonded depository whose bond has been duly approved
by the Mayor as provided in division (B) above or which has, in lieu of surety
bond, given security as provided in division (C) above.
(Prior Code, § 35.07) (Ord. 409-98, passed 10-26-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-720 and 16-714 through 16-716
§ 35.07 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the City Treasurer holds funds of the city in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the city, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively
by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks or the 13
banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration
or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United States. The
interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund out of which
the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   (1)   All income received by the city from public utilities and from
the payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for improvements of the works, or into the General Fund
as the Council may direct.
      (2)   The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Council so directs, be
invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water or gas funds, or
the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water or
gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments may be transferred to the General Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   Any surplus funds arising out of the operation of any system of
waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant or distribution system by the Board of Public Works, or by the City
Council where any of such utilities are not being operated by such a Board, may
be invested, if not invested pursuant to the provisions of any other law upon
the subject, in like manner and subject to the same conditions as the
investment of similar funds of cities of the first class, as provided in Neb.
RS 16-691.01.
(Neb. RS 17-803)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the City Council may invest any such surplus in excess of current
needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in time
deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the State Capital Expansion Act, Neb. RS 17-
1261 et seq. and Neb. RS 77-2341, and the State Funds Investment Act, Neb. RS
72-1237 et seq., and as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of the
State Investment Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The
State Investment Officer shall, upon request, furnish a copy of current
authorized investment guidelines of the State Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (E)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital or to expand the investment authority of a local
government investment pool under the Public Entities Pooled Investment Act,
Neb. RS 77-23,109 et seq.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
§ 35.08 BOND ISSUES.
   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law, issue
bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted by
state law. The City Council shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-612
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 35.09 SALE OF CITY PROPERTY.
   In order to sell personal property owned by the city, the City Council shall
adopt a resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms of the sale.
Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the property, notice
of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the city for a
period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the property. If the
fair market value of the property is greater than the amount set out in the
Master Fee Schedule, notice of the sale shall also be published once in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in such city at least seven days prior
to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a general description of the
property offered for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale. When such
personal property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of federal
or state grants or programs or conveyed to another public agency, the notice
procedure set forth above may be dispensed with.
(Ord. 494-07, passed 10-22-2007)
**** ANNUAL BUDGET ****
§ 35.20 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and any public utility of the city commences on
October 1 and extends through the following September 30, except as provided in
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
§ 35.21 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 35.22 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT
TO BE RECEIVED FROM TAXATION.
   (A)   The governing body shall each year conduct a public hearing on the
proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the hearing,
together with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the municipality.
   (B)   (1)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be
adopted, or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept
of such hearing.
      (2)   The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted, or is amended and adopted as amended.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be
published within 20 days after its adoption in the manner provided in this
section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items changed and
the reasons for such changes.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (D)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
(Prior Code, § 35.32)
§ 35.23 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board, on or before September 20 of each year, and file
with the Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement,
together with the amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget,
setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the City Council; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   The City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year and for the
amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated litigation which
involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or can be withheld or
escrowed by court order.
(Prior Code, § 35.33) (Ord. passed 8-30-1973; Ord. 291, passed 1-2-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-508
**** TAX LEVIES ****
§ 35.35 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of the state and this
code to the contrary, for any fiscal year, the City Council may decide to
certify to the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy, required to be
raised by taxation, for all city purposes instead of certifying a schedule of
levies for specific purposes added together.
      (2)   Subject to the limits in Neb. RS 77-3442, the all-purpose levy
shall not exceed an annual levy of $1.05 on each $100 upon the taxable
valuation of all the taxable property in the city, or other such amount set out
in the Master Fee Schedule.
      (3)   Otherwise-authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the city may be made by the city in addition to such all-
purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in city
financing, the city shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the city in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in
other legal manner, as the City Council deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the city elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for General Fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 35.36 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   (A)   The City Council shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the city which the city
requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided.
   (B)   The County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be
collected in the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in
the county where the city is situated.
   (C)   In all sales for any delinquent taxes for municipal purposes, if there
are other delinquent taxes due from the same person or a lien on the same
property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent taxes.
   (D)   Such sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or
the provision of law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in
all respects be deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the
delinquent county taxes exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
MASTER FEE SCHEDULE
§ 35.50 MASTER FEE SCHEDULE.
   On December 22, 2025, the City Council conducted a regularly scheduled
public meeting, following notice and publication as required by law, at which
it considered establishing a master fee schedule for the city, and which fee
schedule is set forth in Exhibit “A” which is attached below and incorporated
herein.
Schedule of Fees 2025-2026
    Fee Amount
Schedule of Fees 2025-2026
                                                            Fee Amount
Administration Generally Conditions
 ATV/UTV registration   Proof of insurance required        $20 annually
 Credit card fee
  Credit card                                             2.49%
  Debit card                                              $2.95
 Declined ACH                                              $25 per occurrence
 Cable franchise fee                                       3%
 Golf cart registration Proof of insurance required        $20 annually
 Insufficient Funds                                        $25 per occurrence
 Liquor license
  Class C                                                 $300 annually
                                                            (school)
  Class D                                                 $200 annually
                                                            (school)
  Class K                                                 No charge
  SDL                                                     No charge
 Occupancy license                                         $5 per person (18
  (rental only)                                             and older)
 Peddler license        7-day limit                        $25 per person
 Pet licenses
    Cat license                                             $6.25
  Neutered/spayed                                         $26.25
    Sexed
    Dog license                                             $6.25
  Neutered/spayed                                         $26.25
    Sexed
  Late fee             Licenses due May 1                 $10
 Pole attachment                                           $5 per pole
 Tobacco license        Fee set by state statute           $10 annually
                                                            (school)
Auditorium/Community Room
 Furstenau Community Room
  AV Fee                                                  $25
  Day-ahead set-up                                        $75
  Deposit                                                 $150
  Rental                                                  $100
 Mohr Auditorium
  Deposit                                                 $150
  Full auditorium                                         $300
  Full auditorium; non-profit                             $250
  Meeting room                                            $75
  Meeting room and kitchen                                $100
Cemetery
 Flagging grave                                            $75
 Lot sale                                                  $300
Community Development
 Building permit        Class
  $1 to $99                                               No building permit
                                                            needed
  $100 to 499                                             Free
  $500 to $1,499       A                                  $4
  $1,500 to $4,999     B                                  $7
  $5,000 to $9,999     C                                  $13
  $10,000 to $19,999   D                                  $19
  $20,000 to $49,999   E                                  $31
  $50,000 to $99,999   F                                  $31
  $100,000.00 and up   G
 Demolition permit       
  Deposit                                                $250
 Moving building permit  
  Deposit                                                $250
 Planning Commission     
  Fee Schedule
  Amend Zoning Map                                       $200
  Amend zoning text                                      $200
  Application for                                        $200
    change of zoning
  Conditional use                                        $200
    permit
  Lot split                                              $150
  Sign deposit                                           $75
    Subdivision                                             $250, plus $20 per
  Preliminary plat                                       lot
    Final plat                                              $200
  Replat                                                 $200
  Vacation of plat                                       $200
  Variance                                               $250
Fire/Rescue Service Fees
 ALS 2                                                     $2,700
 ALS emergency                                             $2,098
 ALS non-emergency                                         $1,995
 BLS emergency                                             $1,995
 BLS non-emergency                                         $1,850
 Ground mileage                                            $33
 Lift assist/fall                                          $0
 Specialty care transport                                  $2,795
 Treat, no transport                                       $350
Parks and Pools
 Hunt Sports Complex/Spear Memorial Field
  1-day tournament                                        $150 per field
    Field prep (optional)                                   $15
  2- to 3-day tournament                                  $250 per field
    Field prep                                              $15 per field
  Concession stand rental                                 $50 per day
  Daily charge                                            $50 per field
    Field prep (optional)                                   $15
  Supplies (chalk and the like)                           Extra
 Swimming lessons
    Private                                                 Fee set by
  Pool usage                                              instructor
                                                            $10
    Public                                                  $25 per session
  Per person                                              $35 per session
    2 people                                                $45 per session
    4 or more people
 Swimming pool
  Daily pass                                              $3
  Family season pass                                      $100
    Private party                                           $50
  1-hour                                                  $90
    2-hour
  Single season pass                                      $90
Police Department
 Animal Control
  Daily boarding fee for animal in custody                Cost of service
    Dangerous dog
    Anyone maintaining a dog deemed dangerous on their      $100,000 liability
  property is required to carry liability insurance and   insurance
    provide proof of insurance every six months to city
    offices.
    Impound
    Unclaimed livestock found stray that are not able to be
  housed at the shelter will be charged same rates        Cost of service
    assessed by outside agency (i.e., sale barn, vet clinic
    or other organization contracted for this service).
 Code Enforcement
    General penalty violation (per § 10.99)
    Any person, firm, association or corporation violating
    any of the provisions of this code of ordinances hereof
  for which no other penalty is imposed shall, upon       $500 per offense
    conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and be
    fined in any sum not more than $500 for each offense
    and each day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute
    a separate offense.
    Traffic, moving, non-moving and other violations        See the Uniform
    The penalties, fines and fees for violations shall      County Court Rules
  conform to the current Uniform County Court Rules of    of Practice and
    Practice and Procedure Waiver/Fine Schedule, whenever   Procedure Waiver/
    applicable.                                             Fine Schedule
Utilities
 Connectivity charges
  Electric                                                $16
  Natural gas                                             $16
  Trash                                                   $5
  Water                                                   $16
 Delinquent utility bill fees
    Utility bills not paid by 8:00 a.m. on the eighteenth
  of the month, or the first working day following the    Sum equal to 10% of
    18th shall be deemed to be delinquent and shall have    the new amount due
    added penalty for delinquent payment
Schedule of Fees 2025-2026
     Fee Amount
Schedule of Fees 2025-2026
                                               Fee Amount
 Electricity*                 Customer Charge Rate Block              Rate
  Residential
      EL 00                                    First 750 KWH           0.1485
   June through September   $22.50          All excess              0.1221
      October through May                      First 750 KWH           0.1084
                                               All excess              0.0654
      EL 01   All Electric                  First 750 KWH           0.1485
   June through September   $21             All excess              0.1221
      October through May                      First 750 KWH           0.1084
                                               All excess              0.0654
  Commercial - No Demand
      EL 02                                    0 demand                0
      June through September                                          0.1691
      Single phase                             First 1,000 KWH         0.1352
      Summer                   $25             Next 2,000 KWH          0.1352
                           $25             All excess              0
      October through May                      0 demand                0.1323
      Single phase                             First 1,000 KWH         0.0974
      Winter                                   Next 2,000 KWH          0.0874
                                               All excess
      EL 03                                    0 demand                0
      June through September                                          0.1691
      Three phase                              First 1,000 KWH         0.1352
      Summer                   $38.50          Next 2,000 KWH          0.1352
                           $38.50          All excess              0
      October through May                      0 demand                0.1323
      Three phase                              First 1,000 KWH         0.0974
      Winter                                   Next 2,000 KWH          0.0874
                                               All excess
  Commercial - Demand
      EL 04                                    99999 demand            0
      June through September                                          0.1691
      Single phase                             First 1,000 KWH         0.1352
      Summer                   $25             Next 2,000 KWH          0.1352
                           $25             All excess              0
      October through May                      99999 demand            0.1323
      Single phase                             First 1,000 KWH         0.0974
      Winter                                   Next 2,000 KWH          0.0874
                                               All excess
                              Customer Charge Rate Block              Rate
      EL 05                                    99999 demand            0
      June through September                                          0.1691
      Three phase                              First 1,000 KWH         0.1352
      Summer                   $38.50          Next 2,000 KWH          0.1352
                           $38.50          All excess              0
      October through May                      99999 demand            0.1352
      Three phase                              First 1,000 KWH         0.0974
      Winter                                   Next 2,000 KWH          0.0874
                                               All excess
  Municipal Pumping
      EL 07                                    0 demand                0
      June through September                                          0.2289
                                              First 1,500 KWH         0.1301
      Summer                   N/C             Next 13,500 KWH         0.1301
                           N/C             All excess              0
      October through May                      0 demand                0.1917
                                              First 1,500 KWH         0.0937
      Winter                                   Next 13,500 KWH         0.0839
                                               All excess
  GSC
      EL 08                                    99999 demand            17.6302
   January through December $650            First 50,000 KWH        0.0737
      S&W                                      All excess              0.0553
  Commercial and Industrial
    Demand
      EL 10
      June through September                   First 200 KWH of demand 0.1442
      Summer                                   All excess              0.0571
   Single phase             $70             First 200 KWH of demand 0.0986
      October through May                      All excess              0.0411
      Winter
      Single phase
      EL 11
      June through September                   First 200 KWH of demand 0.1442
      Summer                                   All excess              0.0571
   Three phase              $100            First 200 KWH of demand 0.0864
      October through May                      All excess              0.0403
      Winter
      Three phase
  Dusk to Dawn Lighting
   L00                      $9.37           175 watt
   L01                      $11.84          250 watt HP sodium
   L02                      $17.27          400 watt HP
   L03                      $1,402.87       Street lights
   L04                      $5.36           100 watt HP sodium
    *Production cost adjustment
    The KWH supplied under this rate schedule are subject to a production cost
    adjustment (PCA). The PCA is an adjustment in the price of the energy
    portion of the rate due to variations in the cost of procuring or
    producing energy from those costs that are included in the rate schedule.
Schedule of Fees 2025-2026
Schedule of Fees 2025-2026
 Natural Gas*         Calculation                         Customer Charge
                        
    Commercial meters  _____Usage (cu.ft,) x ______PGA     $19, 2 lbs. metering
    G02                rate(ccf)                           $19, 10 lbs.
  G03                _____Usage (cu.ft.) x 1.1231        metering
    G04                x_____PGA rate(ccf)                 $19
                       _____Usage (Cu.ft.) x 1.6869 x
                       ____PGA rate(ccf)
  Industrial meters                                     $100
    G05                PGA rate
                        
    Residential meters ____Usage (cu.ft.) x ____PGA rate   $14
  G00                (ccf)                               $14, 2 lbs. metering
    G01                ____Usage (cu.ft. x 1.1231) x
                       ___PGA rate(ccf)
  * PGA equal to sum of weighted average costs of gas, demand costs, and
    variable costs plus utility charges.   
 Reconnection of utilities fees; for disconnection of     $70
  utilities for non-payment
 Service Deposits
  Electric                                               $200*
  Natural gas                                            $200*
    * Refundable (applied to utility account after one year of no late
  payments, homeowners only). Renters receive deposit back after move out
    and/or apply deposit to final bill.
 Sewer Usage Rates*
  Monthly customer charge                                $39
  Per 1,000 gallons (or part thereof) of water           $3.40
    consumption
 * Monthly usage based on average of water consumption December through
  February.
  Streets and Utilities – Equipment and Service Charges* Per Hour Cost/
 * (Minimum charge is for one hour. Additional time will  Minimum Charge
  be prorated to nearest quarter hour thereafter.)
  Air compressor                                         $75 (plus fuel)
                                                         Per Hour Cost/
                                                           Minimum Charge
  Backhoe                                                $150
  Bucket truck                                           $150
  Cement hand-saw                                        $35 (plus $4 per
                                                           foot)
  Cement saw                                             $70 (plus $8 per
                                                           foot)
  Digger truck                                           $125
  Dump truck                                             $75
  Labor (per additional worker)                          $45
  Mowing/trimming                                        $75
  Payloader                                              $175
  Skid steer loader                                      $150 ($50 per
                                                           attachment)
  Sweeper                                                $150
  Tranper                                                $85
  Trencher                                               $125 (plus $2 per
                                                           foot)
 Trash
  Quantity           Description/Units                   Monthly Charge
  1                  90-gallon tote                      $25.91
  1                  1 1/2-yard                          $73.61
  1                  3-yard                              $97.18
  1                  4-yard                              $131.60
  1                  6-yard                              $153.12
  2                  90-gallon tote                      $33.50
  2                  1 1/2-yard                          $136.87
  3                  90-gallon tote                      $41.04
  3                  1 1/2-yard                          $137.47
  3                  6-yard                              $414.56
  4                  90-gallon tote                      $48.89
 Water Usage Rates
Schedule of Fees 2025-2026
Schedule of Fees 2025-2026
  Commercial
      1.5 Inch Service Line
   Factor of 4, based on meter replacement     $244
      Customer charge
      2-inch service line
   Factor of 7.1, based on line size/flow      $433.10
      Customer charge
      3-inch service line
   Factor of 15, based on line size/flow    $915
      Customer charge
      4-inch service line
   Factor of 28, based on line size/flow       $1,708
      Customer charge
  Commercial/residential
      1-inch service line
   Factor of 1.25, based on meter replacement  $76.25
      Customer charge
  Residential customers
      3/4-inch service line                       $61
   Factor of 1, based on meter replacement     $2.25/1,000 gallons or part
      Customer charge                             thereof for all customers
      Usage charge
 
(Ord. 615-25, passed 12-22-2025)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
   
51.   ELECTRICITY
   
52.   NATURAL GAS
   
53.   WATER
   
54.   SEWERS
   
55.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Denial of service; when prohibited
   
50.02   Utility bills; collection
   
50.03   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.04   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection
prohibited; evidence
   
50.05   Diversion of services; civil action
   
50.06   Delinquent utility charges; lien; civil action
   
50.07   Destruction of property
   
50.08   Procedure for payment of utilities for rental properties
Rates and Charges; Billing
   
50.20   Fees and collections
   
50.21   Minimum rates
   
50.22   Billing
   
50.23   Service deposit
   
50.24   Delinquent payments
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 50.01 DENIAL OF SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas or electricity at retail in this city shall be
denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are not
collectible at law because of statutes of limitations or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings.
(Neb. RS 70-1601)
§ 50.02 UTILITY BILLS; COLLECTION.
   (A)   Charges for utility services provided by or through the city shall be
billed jointly on a monthly basis. The Utility Department shall read the meters
one time per month. Once bills are sent out, it shall immediately come due and
payable by the twenty-eighth day of each month sent. Bills not paid in
accordance with this section shall be deemed delinquent. Upon being deemed
delinquent, the city may discontinue service in accordance with section §
50.03. Once discontinued, service shall not be recommenced except upon payment
of the reconnection fee in an amount set by resolution of the Mayor and City
Council.
   (B)   The city may also take any action authorized by law to effect
collection of the delinquent charges.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 484-06, passed 8-28-2006; Ord. 602-23, passed 5-22-
2023)
Cross-reference:
   Utility rates, see § 35.50
§ 50.03 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies or businesses of any nature.
(Neb. RS 70-1602)
   (B)   No public or private utility company, including any utility owned and
operated by the city, furnishing water, natural gas or electricity at retail in
this city shall discontinue service to any domestic subscriber for nonpayment
of any past-due account unless the utility company first gives notice to any
subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated. Such notice shall be
given in person, by first-class mail or by electronic delivery, except that
electronic delivery shall only be used if the subscriber has specifically
elected to receive such notices by electronic delivery. If notice is given by
first-class mail or electronic delivery, such notice shall be conspicuously
marked as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued for at least
seven days after notice is sent or given. Holidays and weekends shall be
excluded from the seven days. A public or private utility company shall not
charge a fee for the discontinuance or reconnection of utility service that
exceeds the reasonable costs of providing such service.
(Neb. RS 70-1605)
   (C)   The notice required by division (B) above shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the utility
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of the utility’s employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the utility may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   (a)   A statement to the effect that disconnection shall be
postponed or prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s,
physician assistant’s or advanced practice registered nurse’s certificate,
which shall certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within such
subscriber’s household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause
such subscriber or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by
the disconnection of the utility’s service to that household.
         (b)   Such certificate shall be filed with the utility within five
days of receiving notice under this section, excluding holidays and weekends,
and will prevent the disconnection of the utility’s service for a period of at
least 30 days from such filing. Only one postponement of disconnection shall be
required under this division (C)(7) for each incidence of nonpayment of any
past-due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
utility for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in the payment of their utility
bill and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the City Council or Board of Public
Works, in the case of a city utility, or the board of directors or
administrative board of any other utility.
(Neb. RS 70-1606)
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
(Neb. RS 70-1607)
   (E)   The provisions of Neb. RS 70-1608 through 70-1614 shall apply to
disputes over a proposed discontinuance of service.
   (F)   The procedures adopted for resolving utility bills by the City Council
or Board of Public Works for any city utility, one copy of which is on file in
the office of the City Clerk, are incorporated by reference in addition to any
amendments thereto and made a part of this section as though set out in full.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Neb. RS 70-1615)
§ 50.04 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to do any of the following:
      (1)   To connect any instrument, device or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or to connect
any pipe or conduit supplying gas or water, without the knowledge and consent
of any city utility supplying such products or services, in such a manner that
any portion thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which
electricity, electric current, gas or water may be consumed without passing
through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or
quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of electricity,
electric current, gas or water obtained unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect electrical, gas or water service without the knowledge
and consent of any city utility supplying such service if the service has been
disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601 through 70-1615 or §
50.03 of this code; or
   (4)   To willfully injure, alter or by any instrument, device or contrivance
in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of any meter
made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity of
electricity, electric current, gas or water passing through it without the
knowledge and consent of any city utility supplying the electricity, electric
current, gas or water passing or intended to pass through the meter.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where that connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Neb. RS 28-515.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The city utility may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets or attempts
bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering when that act results in damages
to the utility. A city utility may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to
this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the city
utility shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering or unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under divisions (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)
(b) above, the utility may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred
on account of the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering, including, but
not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of
the suit, and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS
25-1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is
proven to exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
         (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist; and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist
caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply system on
the premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering was proven
to exist.
(Neb. RS 25-21,277)
   (D)   (1)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws.
      (2)   The remedies provided in this section are in addition to and not in
limitation of any other civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 DELINQUENT UTILITY CHARGES; LIEN; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   All water rates, taxes or rent assessed by the City Council shall be a
lien upon the premises or real estate upon or for which the same is used or
supplied; and such taxes, rents or rates shall be paid and collected and such
lien enforced in such manner as the Council shall by ordinance direct and
provide.
   (B)   All sewer charges established by the City Council shall be a lien upon
the premises or real estate for which the same is used or supplied. Such lien
shall be enforced in such manner as the Council provides by ordinance.
   (C)   If the service charge established by the City Council for the use of
any city sewage disposal plant and sewerage system is not paid when due, such
sum may be recovered by the city in a civil action or it may be certified to
the County Assessor and assessed against the premises served and collected or
returned in the same manner as other city taxes are certified, assessed,
collected and returned.
(Neb. RS 18-503)
   (D)   (1)   Unless the City Council otherwise provides, on June 1 of each
year, the City Clerk shall report to the Council a list of all unpaid accounts
due for utilities service together with a description of the premises served.
      (2)   If the Council approves the report, the Clerk shall certify the
report to the County Clerk, to be collected as a special tax in the manner
provided by law.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538 and 17-925.01
§ 50.07 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the municipal electric, gas, water or sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 50.07) (Ord. 423-00, passed 12-27-2000; Ord. 433-01, passed 11-
26-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-512
§ 50.08 PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT OF UTILITIES FOR RENTAL PROPERTIES.
   Rental properties shall be billed as follows:
   (A)   All landlords shall be required to sign an owner's consent form
agreeing to pay all unpaid utility charges for their property before a ten-
ant's utility application will be accepted and the landlord reconnect fee
waiver will be allowed as set forth in division (E) below.
   (B)   All unpaid utility charges after final billing and/or disconnect of
electricity, natural gas (and/or water or sewer), shall be the primary
responsibility of the owner of any rental property within the city. Any utility
deposit paid by the tenant shall be credited to the account.
   (C)   Prior to disconnection of utilities from any known rental unit within
the city, the property owner shall be given five days’ notice of the failure of
the renter to pay such bills when due.
   (D)   In the event the renter and the owner fail to pay such utility charges
within the time set forth in the city ordinances, the utilities to such
property shall be disconnected.
   (E)   Upon payment in full by the owner of the property, the reconnection
charges shall be waived. Waiver of a reconnection fee will not be granted for
partial payment of the past due utility charges. The reconnection fee shall not
be waived for a tenant.
(Ord. 601-23, passed 5-22-2023)
**** RATES AND CHARGES; BILLING ****
§ 50.20 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates
to be paid by utility consumers for the use of all utilities.
      (2)   All rates shall be on file for public inspection at the office of
the Municipal Clerk. The Municipal Clerk shall collect all money received by
the municipality on all the utility accounts. He or she shall faithfully
account for all revenue collected.
   (B)   The Mayor and Council may, in its discretion, set a different uniform
rate schedule for nonresidents if it deems it advisable.
(Prior Code, § 50.15) (Ord. 427-01, passed 8-27-2001; Ord. 428-01, passed 8-27-
2001; Ord. 433-01, passed 11-26-2001; Ord. 592-21, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 50.21 MINIMUM RATES.
   All utility consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
resolution or ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order
direct the Utility Superintendent to shut off all utilities, in which case, he
or she shall not be liable thereafter for the service until the utilities are
turned back on again.
(Prior Code, § 50.16) (Ord. 423-00, passed 12-27-2000; Ord. 433-01, passed 11-
26-2001)
§ 50.22 BILLING.
   (A)   Charges for water, sewer, gas, trash and electric service shall be due
and payable monthly at the office of the City Clerk. The Utility Department
shall read the meters one time per month. It shall be the duty of the customers
to pay their bill to the City Clerk’s office. The City Clerk shall charge and
collect from each customer the minimum charge, together with any other charges,
properly itemized, due to the Utility System. Once bills are sent out, they
shall immediately come due and payable by the twenty-eighth day of the month
sent. Bills not paid in accordance with the above statement shall be deemed
delinquent.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall assess an additional fee set by ordinance or
resolution of the Mayor and Council and on file at the office of the City
Clerk, in the event that utilities are shut off for the nonpayment of any
electric bill, to compensate the utility system for additional hookup necessary
to again provide service to the delinquent customers. The Utility Department
may offer to its customers a budget plan. If this budget plan is chosen all
utilities must be on the budget plan whereby each month’s payment shall be
equal to one twelfth of the average annual bill for the immediate proceeding
fiscal year.
   (C)   At the end of the fiscal year the Utility Billing Clerk shall adjust
each customer’s monthly payments based on actual usage for the proceeding
fiscal year; that payoff month being February of each year. Should a consumer’s
meter fail to register properly, the consumer shall be charged for consumption
during the time such meter is out of order or repair a sum equal to the current
charge for the amount used on the premises during the corresponding period of
the preceding year. If there is no such basis from which to compute the bill,
the Superintendent shall set the amount of the bill which shall be both fair to
the consumer and the municipality.
   (D)   To be eligible for budget, customers must have 12 months of
consecutive history with no delinquent payments.
(Prior Code, § 50.17) (Ord. 433-01, passed 11-26-2001; Ord. 484-06, passed 8-
28-2006; Ord. 602-23, passed 5-22-2023)
§ 50.23 SERVICE DEPOSIT.
   The service deposit required for both residential and commercial customers
for all utilities shall promptly pay services upon demand. The service deposit
shall be collected by the City Clerk. Deposits paid by homeowners and
commercial owners shall be credited back to their utility account after making
12 consecutive payments without any delinquent charges to their utility
account. All deposits paid by renters will be credited to their final bill when
they move out of town. If moving from one location to another within the
municipality, a $10 transfer fee will be charged, and any deposits paid will
follow the customer. This service deposit is waived for the first-time
homeowner of a newly constructed residence as long as that fee along with other
fees regarding this issue do not exceed $1,500. Any fees due over $1,500 will
be due the city by the builder or homeowner.
(Prior Code, § 50.18) (Ord. 423-00, passed 12-27-2000; Ord. 433-01, passed 11-
26-2001; Ord. 438-02, passed 6-24-2002; Ord. 439-02, passed 8-26-2002; Ord.
441-02, passed 10-28-2002; Ord. 442-02, passed 12-23-2002; Ord. 479-05, passed
11-28-2005)
§ 50.24 DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   All bills for utility fees shall be due on the twenty-eighth day of the
month following the date that bills are mailed or otherwise presented. If the
bills are not paid by 8:00 a.m. on the twenty-ninth day of the month, or first
working day following the twenty-eighth day in which the bill is due, it shall
be deemed to be delinquent and shall have added thereto as a penalty for
delinquent payment a sum equal to 10% of the amount due. The customer shall
then be mailed a notice of delinquency and that termination of service will
occur on the eighth working day following the delinquent notice if payment is
not made. The customer’s utility services shall be discontinued and
disconnected until all amounts include the penalty charges, are paid in full,
together with a fee for the reconnection of services. If the customer is a
known welfare recipient, the County Welfare Department must be given
notification of the termination of service.
(Prior Code, § 50.19) (Ord. 427-01, passed 8-27-2001; Ord. 484-06, passed 8-28-
2006; Ord. 602-23, passed 5-22-2023)
CHAPTER 51: ELECTRICITY
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Ownership
   
51.02   Contracts and terms
General and Use Regulations
   
51.15   Consumer’s application
   
51.16   Licensed electricians
   
51.17   Expense; installation and re-installation
   
51.18   Meters
   
51.19   Service to nonresidents
   
51.20   Access to premises; inspections
   
51.21   Specifications and materials
   
51.22   Street lighting services
   
51.23   Disconnection of service
Prohibited Activity
   
51.35   Posting signs prohibited
   
51.36   Trimming
   
51.37   Restricted use
   
51.38   Moving buildings
Customer-Owned Renewable Electric Generating Facilities
   
51.50   Purpose
   
51.51   Definitions
   
51.52   Eligibility
   
51.53   Request
   
51.54   System effects
   
51.55   System upgrades
   
51.56   Agreement
   
51.57   Codes and permits
   
51.58   Certificate of completion
   
51.59   Normal operation
   
51.60   Technical requirements
   
51.61   Facilities interconnection agreement
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 51.01 OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal electrical system
through the Utility Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the municipal
electrical system may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from said tax shall be known as the Electrical Fund and shall remain in
the custody of the Municipal Clerk. The Utility Superintendent shall have the
direct management and control of the municipal electrical system and shall
faithfully carry out the duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations for the safe and efficient management
of the electrical system subject to the supervision and review of the governing
body.
   (B)   The governing body shall, by resolution, set the rates to be charged
for services rendered and shall file the same in the office of the Municipal
Clerk for public inspection during normal business hours.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 433-01, passed 11-26-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 through 17-909
§ 51.02 CONTRACTS AND TERMS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, through its Electrical Department, shall
furnish electric current for light and power purposes to persons whose premises
abut on any supply wire of the distribution system and may furnish electric
current to such other persons within or without its corporate limits, as and
when, according to law, its Electrical Department may see fit to do so. The
rules, regulations and rates for electric service, hereinafter named, shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for electric service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every consumer now served by
the Electrical Department.
      (2)   Without further formality, the making of application on the part of
any applicant or the use or consumption of electrical energy by present
customers and the furnishing of electric service to said applicant or customer
shall constitute a contract between applicant or customer and the municipality,
to which both parties are bound.
      (3)   Subject to §
50.03, if a customer should violate any of the provisions of said contract, or
any reasonable rules and regulations that the Electrical Department may
hereafter adopt, the Utility Superintendent, or its agent, shall cut off or
disconnect the electric service from the building or place of such violation,
and no further connection of electric service for such building or place shall
again be made save or except by order of the Utility Superintendent, or his or
her agent.
   (B)   Any person wishing to change from one location to another shall make a
new application by contacting the City Clerk’s office. A transfer fee will be
charged when moving from one residence to another. If any consumer shall sell,
dispose or remove from the premises where service is furnished in his or her
name, or if said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or she
shall at once inform the Utility Superintendent who shall cause the electric
service to be shut off from said premises. If the consumer should fail to give
such notice, he or she shall be charged for all electricity used on said
premises until the Utility Superintendent is otherwise advised of such
circumstance.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 433-01, passed 11-26-2001)
**** GENERAL AND USE REGULATIONS ****
§ 51.15 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person or persons desiring electrical service must make
application therefor to the Municipal Clerk. Any applicant may be required to
make a service deposit in such amount as has been set by the governing body and
on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk. Electricity may not be supplied
to any house or building, except upon the written order of the Utility
Superintendent.
   (B)   The system shall not supply to any person outside the corporate limits
electrical service without special permission from the governing body. Nothing
herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to supply electrical
service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 51.15) (Ord. 433-01, passed 11-26-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-2701
§ 51.16 LICENSED ELECTRICIANS.
   (A)   Under no circumstances shall connection be made between the wires of
the electrical distribution system of this municipality and the meter of the
consumer, except by an employee of the municipality or a licensed electrician
authorized to do so by the Utility Superintendent. The consumer may have wiring
done by any competent licensed electrician from the meter to the points of
distribution.
   (B)   All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in
accordance with the rules, regulations and specifications for such installation
prescribed by the Utility Superintendent; provided, that such rules,
regulations and specification have been reviewed and approved by the governing
body.
(Prior Code, § 51.16) (Ord. 433-01, passed 11-26-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 51.17 EXPENSE; INSTALLATION AND RE-INSTALLATION.
   The expense of installation and ownership of equipment shall be as follows.
   (A)   The municipality shall own, furnish and install electrical wiring up
to the weather head on the meter loop.
   (B)   The consumer shall provide and maintain without cost to the
municipality, a safe and substantial support for the municipality’s overhead
service conductors, and in no case will the municipality be responsible for any
damage caused by failure of, or defect in, such support. The point of
attachment of the municipality’s overhead service conductors to the consumer’s
building, premises or other means of support shall be made so as to comply with
the National Electric Code, including, but not limited to, provisions regarding
location, accessibility and clearance above the ground, from building openings
and roofs.
   (C)   The meter loop, meter socket and all other associated distribution
lines or equipment shall be installed, maintained and owned by the consumer.
The meter shall be provided by, installed by and remained by the municipality.
With CT metering, the meter loop, meter, meter socket, CTs, PTs and all other
related metering components, including service wiring up to the point of
delivery, shall be installed, maintained and owned by the municipality. All
service wiring from the point of delivery to the point of distribution shall be
maintained and owned by the consumer.
   (D)   All electrical services shall be approved by the Utility
Superintendent, or his or her representative, for meter type and style previous
to installation.
   (E)   In the event the consumer requests underground service, the
municipality shall install, own and maintain the underground wiring, at no
additional cost to the consumer, up to the meter loop or point of delivery.
Conduit is provided by the municipality from the meter socket or meter cabinet,
not to exceed 18 inches below ground line for direct burial wire. All
underground services which were determined by the Utility Superintendent to
require conduit, i.e., under unpaved driveway, subject to heavy traffic or to
any other physical damage, all extra conduit and fittings must be provided by
the consumer.
   (F)   Whenever service is terminated or disconnected for any reason, the
municipality may remove its property from the consumer’s premises.
   (G)   The customer shall be required to secure all necessary wiring permits
or certificates, certifying that all wiring has been inspected and conforms
with local and National Electrical Codes, before electric service will be
supplied by the municipality. Any fee required for such permits or inspections
shall be paid by the consumer.
   (H)   All requests for electrical service from the city electric system
shall be accompanied by an application fee as set by the Mayor and Council; a
description of the service requested, the name, address and telephone number of
the applicant; and such other information as the city officials may require to
determine the type of service required and the information necessary for proper
billing of the electricity consumed.
(Prior Code, § 51.17) (Ord. 433-01, passed 11-26-2001; Ord. 569-18, passed 5-
29-2018)
§ 51.18 METERS.
   (A)   All electrical meters shall be read once a month.
   (B)   Should a customer’s meter get out of repair or fail to register
properly, the customer will be charged for electric current during the time
when such meter is out of order or repair on the basis of monthly consumption
during the same month of the preceding years; provided, that if no such basis
for comparison exists or if circumstances have been materially altered, then
such customer shall pay such amount as reasonably fixed by the Utility
Superintendent or City Clerk.
   (C)   It shall be required that all residential properties and multi-family
dwellings be served electricity through a separate meter or separate meter bank
to enable the city to determine the actual energy provided to each residential
property or multi-family living unit. No electricity will be provided to any
residence or multi-family living unit unless the same is equipped with a
separate meter loop or meter bank with one meter of each meter bank serving
each multi-family living unit.
(Prior Code, § 51.18) (Ord. 433-01, passed 11-26-2001; Ord. 569-18, passed 5-
29-2018)
§ 51.19 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council have the power and authority to contract
with any person or other city to sell electric current for light, heat and
power purposes beyond the limits when it is beneficial to the municipality to
do so.
   (B)   The cost of extending the lines of the electrical system beyond its
borders shall be paid by the municipality out of the net earnings of the
electrical system.
(Prior Code, § 51.19) (Ord. 433-01, passed 11-26-2001)
§ 51.20 ACCESS TO PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The municipality or its authorized agents shall have the right of
unobstructed and safe access to a customer’s premises, at all reasonable times,
for the purpose of reading meters, tree trimming, removing or exchanging
municipality-owned property and installing, inspecting, testing or repairing
municipality-owned equipment.
   (B)   The Utility Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agents shall
have free access at any reasonable time to each premises and building to or in
which electricity is supplied; provided, that in the event of an emergency,
such inspections may take place at any time.
(Prior Code, § 51.20) (Ord. 433-01, passed 11-26-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 51.21 SPECIFICATIONS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   All poles, wires, transformers and other electrical equipment shall be
of such quality and installed in such manner as the governing body may
prescribe.
   (B)   In all cases where the required materials or insulation procedures
have not been specifically prescribed, or where it is unreasonable to comply
literally with any of said regulations, the Utility Superintendent may modify
such regulations subject to the review of the governing body in the interest of
public health and safety.
(Prior Code, § 51.21) (Ord. 433-01, passed 11-26-2001)
§ 51.22 STREET LIGHTING SERVICES.
   (A)   The city may operate and maintain the complete municipal street
lighting system every night from dusk until daylight, or approximately 4,000
hours per year.
   (B)   The city may operate and maintain the system on existing poles from
dusk to daylight, or approximately 4,000 hours per year.
   (C)   (1)   The city will install and maintain the dusk to dawn lights and
the property owners will pay a fee for their light.
      (2)   If the property owner no longer wants the dusk to dawn light on
his, her or their property, the city will remove the light and no longer charge
the property owner a fee.
(Prior Code, § 51.22) (Ord. 433-01, passed 11-26-2001)
§ 51.23 DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   A customer can request disconnection of the customer’s service for any
reason unless otherwise provided for by the customer’s contract or agreement
for electric service.
   (B)   The municipality can disconnect service to a customer after notice of
disconnection has been given to the customer when one or more of the following
conditions occur:
      (1)   Subject to §
50.03, whenever a customer’s bill becomes past due or delinquent and payment is
not received by the municipality within the period of time specified; or
      (2)   Whenever a customer’s connection, use of service or equipment and
devices interferes, seriously impairs or has a detrimental effect upon the
service rendered to any other customer, or otherwise causes unusual
fluctuations or disturbances on the municipality’s system, and such conditions
have not been reasonably limited, nor has the customer installed adequate
corrective equipment.
   (C)   (1)   The municipality can disconnect service to a customer at any
time without notice whenever any metering, equipment or wiring has been
tampered or interfered with in any manner, or metering connections have been
modified in any way, so as to cause improper registration of the municipality’s
metering equipment.
      (2)   The municipality shall be entitled to collect for the theft of all
power and energy not recorded and all expenses incurred because of such
unlawful current diversion.
   (D)   The municipality shall not assume responsibility or liability for loss
or damage to person, including death, or property resulting from disconnection
of service either at the customer’s request or when required by the
municipality. The municipality shall not assume responsibility or liability for
such disconnection even though the customer is not the owner of the premises to
which service is supplied.
(Prior Code, § 51.23) (Ord. 433-01, passed 11-26-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** PROHIBITED ACTIVITY ****
§ 51.35 POSTING SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, tack or fasten to the poles,
structures, fixtures or equipment of the municipal electrical system any sign,
poster, advertisement or banner without written permission from the Utility
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 51.35) (Ord. 433-01, passed 11-26-2001) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.36 TRIMMING.
   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof in close
proximity to the lines of the municipal electrical system shall, before doing
said work, give reasonable notice to the City Clerk and shall follow any and
all rules and regulations which he or she may prescribe for doing such work. It
shall be unlawful for any person felling or removing such trees or branches to
disrupt or damage the lines without first giving proper notice and receiving
permission in writing to do so. Whenever it becomes necessary to protect the
lines or property of the electrical system, the Utility Superintendent shall
have the power to order cut and remove any overhanging branches or limbs of
trees so that the lines will be free and safe.
(Prior Code, § 51.36) (Ord. 433-01, passed 11-26-2001) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.37 RESTRICTED USE.
   (A)   The municipal electrical system does not guarantee the delivery of
electric current over the lines of the distribution system, except when it has
sufficient power, current, equipment and machinery to do so.
   (B)   Subject to §
50.03, the Utility Superintendent has the power and authority to disconnect or
discontinue such service for any good and sufficient reason without liability.
   (C)   The municipality shall use due care and reasonable diligence to
provide and supply uninterrupted service to consumers, but shall not be liable
for damages resulting from interruption of service due to causes over which the
municipality expressly reserves the right to discontinue or disconnect any
consumer’s service without preliminary notice.
(Prior Code, § 51.37) (Ord. 433-01, passed 11-26-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.38 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   Should any house or building moving occur or be necessary and it becomes
necessary in said work to remove or disturb any of the property or wires of the
municipal electrical system, the same should not be done, except upon written
permission received from the Utility Superintendent, who shall then order such
cost and shall be paid by the applicant prior to the moving of the building or
house. All expense of removing, changing and replacing said wires or apparatus
of the electrical system shall be paid out of the deposit made prior to moving
and any surplus remaining after all expense are paid shall be returned to the
applicant; provided, that if in the course of moving said building or house it
becomes apparent that additional expense will be incurred, such additional
deposit as deemed necessary may be demanded.
(Prior Code, § 51.38) (Ord. 433-01, passed 11-26-2001)
**** CUSTOMER-OWNED RENEWABLE ELECTRIC GENERATING FACILITIES ****
§ 51.50 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish standards for the utility to
interconnect and operate in parallel with customer-owned renewable electric
generators.
(Policy passed 1-24-2022)
§ 51.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS. All duly promulgated applicable federal,
state and local laws, regulations, rules, ordinances, codes, decrees,
judgments, directives or judicial or administrative orders, permits and other
duly authorized actions of any governmental authority.
   AVOIDED COSTS. The incremental costs of the utility’s energy or capacity or
both which, but for the purchase from the customer’s generating facility, the
utility would generate itself or purchase from another source.
   CUSTOMER. Any entity interconnected to the utility’s distribution system for
the purpose of receiving retail electric power service from the utility’s
distribution system.
   CUSTOMER GENERATOR. The owner or operator of a generating facility which:
      (1)   Is powered by a renewable energy resource;
      (2)   Is located on a premises owned, operated, leased or otherwise
controlled by the CUSTOMER GENERATOR;
      (3)   Is interconnected and operates in parallel phase and
synchronization with an affected utility and is in compliance with the
standards established by the affected utility;
      (4)   Is intended primarily to offset part or all of the CUSTOMER
GENERATOR’s own electrical energy requirements; and
      (5)   Contains a mechanism, approved by the utility, that automatically
disables the unit and interrupts the flow of electricity back onto the
supplier’s electricity lines in the event that service to the CUSTOMER
GENERATOR is interrupted.
   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. The utility’s facilities and equipment used to transmit
electricity to ultimate usage points such as homes and industries directly from
nearby generators or from interchanges with higher voltage transmission
networks which transport bulk power over longer distances and from the
utility’s wholesale supplier(s).
   FORCE MAJEURE. Any natural disaster, labor disturbance, act of the public
enemy, war, insurrection, riot, fire, storm or flood, explosion, breakage or
accident to machinery or equipment, any order, regulation or restriction
imposed by governmental, military or lawfully established civilian authorities,
or any other cause beyond a party’s control. A FORCE MAJEURE event does not
include an act of negligence or intentional wrongdoing.
   GENERATING FACILITY. For purposes of this standard, the customer’s device
for the conversion of renewable generation like bio fuel, hydro, wind or solar
energy to electricity, as identified in the interconnection application and
able to be certified as a qualifying facility under the definitions in the
Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act (PURPA, Pub. Law No. 95-617, 92 Stat.
3117, enacted November 9, 1978), a United States Act passed as part of the
National Energy Act and as amended.
   GOOD UTILITY PRACTICE. Any of the practices, methods and acts engaged in or
approved by a significant portion of the electric industry during the relevant
time period, or any of the practices, methods and acts which, in the exercise
of reasonable judgment in light of the facts known at the time the decision was
made, could have been expected to accomplish the desired result at a reasonable
cost consistent with good business practices, reliability, safety and
expedition. GOOD UTILITY PRACTICE is not intended to be limited to the optimum
practice, method or act to the exclusion of all others, but rather to be
acceptable practices, methods or acts generally accepted in the region.
   GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY. Any federal, state, local or other governmental
regulatory or administrative agency, court, commission, department, board or
other governmental subdivision, legislature, rulemaking board, tribunal or
other governmental authority having jurisdiction over the parties, their
respective facilities or the respective services they provide, and exercising
or entitled to exercise any administrative, executive, police or taxing
authority or power; provided, however, that such term does not include the
customer or any affiliate thereof.
   INTERCONNECTION APPLICATION. The customer’s request to interconnect a new
generating facility, or to increase the capacity of, or make a material
modification to, the operating characteristics of an existing generating
facility that is interconnected with the utility’s electrical system.
    INTERCONNECTION STANDARD. All the provisions, forms and related documents
described in the collective parts of the policy and guidelines codified in this
subchapter, as of the date adopted and printed on the cover page of said
policy.
   QUALIFYING FACILITY. A generation facility that is a qualifying facility
under 18 C.F.R. part 292, subpart B, and is proposed to be used by an
interconnection customer to generate electricity that operates in parallel with
the electric distribution system or local electric power system. QUALIFYING
FACILITIES that are not GENERATING FACILITIES as defined herein may qualify for
interconnection with the utility under provisions of the Public Utilities
Regulatory Policies Act (PURPA), but the terms and conditions of
interconnection shall be determined on a case-by-case basis.
   SYSTEM UPGRADES. The additions, modifications and upgrades to the utility
distribution system at or beyond the point of interconnection to facilitate
interconnection of the generating facility and render the transmission service
necessary to effect the interconnection customer’s wholesale sale of
electricity in interstate commerce. Distribution upgrades do not include
interconnection facilities.
(Policy passed 1-24-2022)
§ 51.52 ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   Interconnection to the electric system shall be granted only to new or
existing customers in good standing under the utility’s electric service
schedules. The interconnection agreement shall be between the customer who owns
a generating facility and the utility.
   (B)   The interconnection standards for small customer-owned renewable
electric generating facilities apply to a generating facility with rated output
100 kilowatts (kW-DC) or less. Eligibility of a generating facility with rated
output of greater than 100 kW-DC will be determined on a case-by-case basis
regarding voltage level of connection, metering and purchase of output.
However, a similar Facilities interconnection agreement will also apply.
(Policy passed 1-24-2022)
§ 51.53 REQUEST.
   (A)   A customer desiring to interconnect a qualifying generating facility
must complete and return to the utility an application for interconnection
(Document A) with payment of the applicable processing fee. The processing fee
for 25 kW (DC rated generators) and under is $250. The processing fee for 25
kW-DC to 100 kW-DC is $500. The utility may require additional details or
clarifications as needed to properly evaluate the application.
   (B)   (1)   The utility requires that the customer provide the capability to
deliver hourly generator AC output meter readings (net of any generator
auxiliary usage) to the utility. The customer shall install a meter socket that
meets the utility’s specifications between the inverter and the AC connection
to the customer’s load panel.
      (2)   The utility shall have the right to install such additional
metering equipment as it deems necessary for the collection of data for
research purposes, which metering will be furnished and paid for by the
utility.
(Policy passed 1-24-2022)
§ 51.54 SYSTEM EFFECTS.
   The utility will analyze the overall impact of the proposed generating
facility on the transmission and distribution system. Such analyses will be
based on good utility practice to determine thermal effects, voltage
fluctuations, power quality, system stability and the like.
(Policy passed 1-24-2022)
§ 51.55 SYSTEM UPGRADES.
   As a result of the above analysis, the utility will provide the customer
with a cost estimate and projected time frame for any system upgrades that may
be necessary to accommodate the generating facility (Document B).
(Policy passed 1-24-2022)
§ 51.56 AGREEMENT.
   Once the customer and the utility have identified and mutually agreed upon
the scope of the overall project, including the generating facility, system
upgrades and estimated costs, the customer and the utility shall execute the
Customer-Owned Generation Facilities Interconnection Agreement codified in §
51.61.
(Policy passed 1-24-2022)
§ 51.57 CODES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   The customer shall be responsible for procuring all building,
operating and environmental permits that are required by any governmental
authority having jurisdiction for the type of generating facility and for the
necessary ancillary structures to be installed.
   (B)   The equipment shall meet the national certification codes and
standards listed in §
51.60(G).
   (C)   The construction and facilities shall meet all applicable building and
electrical codes.
(Policy passed 1-24-2022)
§ 51.58 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION.
   Upon completion of the generating facility and prior to normal operation,
the customer shall provide a signed copy of the attached document entitled
certificate of completion (Document C) to the utility.
(Policy passed 1-24-2022)
§ 51.59 NORMAL OPERATION.
   The customer may begin normal operation of the generating facility upon
completion of all documentation and receipt of written approval from the
utility.
(Policy passed 1-24-2022)
§ 51.60 TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Character of service. The electrical service shall be 60 cycles per
second (60 Hertz) alternating current (AC) at supply voltages and number of
phases that apply under the utility’s rate schedules and metering requirements.
   (B)   Code requirements.
      (1)   The generating facility shall meet all requirements established by
the National Electrical Code (NEC), National Electrical Safety Code (NESC),
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), Underwriters
Laboratories (UL) and Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
      (2)   Specific codes are listed in division (G) below.
      (3)   In addition, the manufacturer’s ownership, operating and
maintenance manuals shall be reviewed and accepted by both parties prior to
beginning operation.
   (C)   Generating facility control and operation. The control system of the
generating facility shall comply with the IEEE specifications and standards for
parallel operation with the utility and in particular as follows.
      (1)   Power output control system shall automatically disconnect from
utility source upon loss of utility voltage and not reconnect until utility
voltage has been restored by the utility.
      (2)   Power output control system shall ride through voltage fluctuations
but shall automatically disconnect from utility source if utility or customer-
owned generation voltage fluctuates beyond plus or minus 10%. The customer
shall provide adequate protection to prevent damage to the utility’s electrical
system from inadvertent over/under voltage conditions originating in customer’s
generating facility and to protect the customer’s generating facility from
inadvertent over/under voltage conditions originating from the utility’s
electrical system.
      (3)   Power output control system shall ride through frequency
fluctuations but shall automatically disconnect from utility if frequency
fluctuates beyond plus or minus two cycles per second from 60 cycles per second
(Hertz).
      (4)   Inverter output distortion shall meet IEEE requirements.
      (5)   The generating facility shall meet the applicable IEEE standards
concerning impacts to the distribution system with regard to harmonic
distortion, voltage flicker, power factor, direct current injection and
electromagnetic interference.
      (6)   The voltage produced by the customer’s generating facility must be
balanced if it is a three-phase installation. The customer is responsible for
protecting the generating facility from an inadvertent phase unbalance in the
utility’s service voltage.
   (D)   Fault current contribution. The generating facility shall be equipped
with protective equipment designed to automatically disconnect during fault
current conditions and remain disconnected until the voltage and frequency have
stabilized.
   (E)   Reclosing coordination. The generating facility shall be coordinated
with the distribution system reclosing devices by disconnecting from the system
during the initial de-energized operation and shall remain disconnected until
the voltage and frequency have stabilized.
   (F)   Disconnect device.
      (1)   A safety disconnect switch shall be installed that is visible to
and readily accessible by utility personnel.
      (2)   The switch shall be capable of being locked in the open position
and shall prevent the generator from supplying power to the distribution
system.
   (G)   Standards for interconnection, safety and operating reliability. The
interconnection of a generating facility and associated interconnection
equipment to the utility’s distribution system shall meet the applicable
provisions of the following publications:
      (1)   ANSI/lEEE1547-2003, Standard for Interconnecting Distributed
Resources with Electric Power Systems (including use of IEEE 1547.1 testing
protocols to establish conformity). The following standards shall be used as
guidance in applying IEEE 1547:
         (a)   IEEE Std 519-2014, IEEE Recommended Practices and Requirements
for Harmonic Control in Electrical Power Systems; and
         (b)   IEC/TR3 61000-3-7, Assessment of emission limits for fluctuating
loads in MV and HV power systems.
      (2)   State Electric Safety Code;
      (3)   ANSI/NFPA 70 (2014), National Electrical Code;
      (4)   OSHA (29 C.F.R. § 5 1910.269); and
      (5)   Applicable regional transmission organization/independent system
operator or transmission provider tariff, criteria, business practices,
protocols or other governing documents.
(Policy passed 1-24-2022)
§ 51.61 FACILITIES INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENT.
City of Scribner Utilities
Customer-Owned Generation
FACILITIES INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENT
   This Agreement, (“Agreement”) is entered into by and between the City of Scribner,
Nebraska (“Utility”) and (“Customer”). Customer and Utility are referenced in this
Agreement collectively as “Parties” and individually as “Party.”
Recitals
    WHEREAS, utility is a publicly-owned electric utility engaged in the retail sale of
electricity the state of Nebraska,
   WHEREAS, Customer owns or desires to install, own and operate an electric generating
facility that qualifies as a Qualifying Facility under the utility’s Policy and
Guidelines for Interconnection for Parallel Installation and Operation (adopted
_____________date) and as allowed by federal and Nebraska law.
Agreement
   NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and promises herein, the Parties
mutually agree as follows:
    1.   Scope of agreement. This Agreement governs the terms and Conditions under which
the Customer’s generating facility will interconnect to, and operate in parallel with,
the utility’s electrical system.
   2.   Parallel operation. Customer shall not commence parallel operation of the
generating facility until written approval of the interconnection facilities has been
given by Utility. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Utility shall have
the right to have representatives present at the initial testing of Customer’s protective
apparatus and receive a copy of the inspection from the State Electrical Division
pursuant to Nebraska law.
    3.   Interconnection costs. The Utility has estimated the costs, including overheads,
for the purchase and construction of necessary system upgrades to its distribution system
and has provided a detailed itemization of such costs on the attached document entitled
“System Upgrade Estimated Costs.” The Customer agrees to pay the costs upon receipt of
the Utility’s invoice within the time frame indicated on the invoice, The diagram below
shows the interconnection and metering requirements, ownership and responsibilities of
the Parties.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96d918e2de2bdc975386a120db384e7258386d30/IMAGES/0-0-0-
1326.jpg]
   4.   Billing of net excess energy. Customer-generators of greater than 25 kW-DC will
be paid at the Utility’s avoided cost rate for all excess energy delivered to the Utility
and will pay for all energy delivered to the customer at the Utility’s retail rate.
Customer-generators of 25 kW-DC or less will be paid at the Utility’s avoided cost rate
for the net excess energy delivered to the Utility. Net excess energy for customer-
generators of 25 kW-DC or less will be determined as the net amount of energy, if any, by
which the output of the facility exceeds a Customer’s total electricity requirements
during a billing period. The Utility shall provide net metering for customer-generators
of 25 kW-DC or less, to the extent required by state law. Neb. RS 70-2001 through 70-2005
as may be amended provide among other things the following rules for compensation for net
metering (relevant excerpts are shown below).
   70-2002. Terms defined.
      NET METERING. A system of metering electricity in which a local distribution
utility:
         (a)   Credits a customer-generator at the applicable retail rate for each
kilowatt-hour produced by a qualified facility during a billing period up to the total of
the customer-generator’s electricity requirements during that billing period. A customer-
generator may be charged a minimum monthly fee that is the same as other noncustomer-
generators in the same rate class but shall not be charged any additional standby,
capacity, demand, interconnection or other fee or charge; and
         (b)   Compensates the customer-generator for net excess generation during the
billing period at a rate equal to the local distribution utility’s avoided cost of
electric supply over the billing period. The monetary credits shall be applied to the
bills of the customer-generator for the preceding billing period and shall offset the
cost of energy owed by the customer-generator. If the energy portion of the customer-
generator’s bill is less than zero in any month, monetary credits shall be carried over
to future bills of the customer-generator until the balance is zero. At the end of each
annualized period, any excess monetary credits shall be paid out to coincide with the
final bill of that period.
   70-2003. Subject to the requirements of Neb. RS 70-2001 through 70-2005 and the
interconnection agreement, a local distribution utility shall provide net metering to any
customer-generator with a qualified facility. The local distribution utility shall allow
a customer-generator’s retail electricity consumption to be offset by a qualified
facility that is interconnected with the local distribution system. A qualified
facility’s net excess generation during a billing period, if any, shall be determined by
the local distribution utility in accordance with Neb. RS 70-2002 and shall be credited
to the customer-generator at a rate equal to the local distribution utilities avoided
cost of electricity supply during the billing period, and the monetary credits shall be
carried forward from billing period to billing period and credited against the customer-
generator’s retail electric bills in subsequent billing periods. Any excess monetary
credits shall be paid out to coincide with the final bill at the end of each annualized
period or within 60 days after the date the customer-generator terminates its retail
service.
      A local distribution utility shall be required to provide net metering to
additional customer-generators, regardless of the output of the proposed generation unit,
after the date during a calendar year on which the total generating capacity of all
customer-generators using net metering served by such local distribution utility is equal
to or exceeds 1% of the capacity necessary to meet the local distribution utility’s
average aggregate customer monthly peak demand forecast for that calendar year.
      For a generating facility of 100 kW-DC or less, the Utility’s avoided cost rate,
with adjustment noted below for losses, will be used to determine the monetary credits of
the Customer’s net excess energy month to month. See the Appendix, as amended from time
to time. The net excess energy in kWh will be multiplied by a loss factor of 1.053
representing the average distribution losses at the secondary level. If the customer-
generator is metered at the primary voltage level the net excess energy kWh will be
multiplied by a factor of 1.033. For a generating facility of more than 100 kW-DC, the
compensation rate will be determined on a case-by-case basis.
   5.   Interruption or reduction of deliveries. Utility may require Customer to
interrupt or reduce deliveries and/or automatically isolate the facility from the
electrical system when the Utility determines, in its sole discretion, that curtailment,
interruption or reduction is necessary because of personnel safety, emergencies, force
majeure or compliance with good utility practices.
   6.   Adverse operating effects. The interconnection of the customer-owned generating
facility shall not reduce the reliability and quality of the distribution system. This
includes, but is not limited to high levels of harmonics, abnormal voltage fluctuations
and excessive frequency deviations. The Utility shall notify the Customer as soon as
practicable if, based on good utility practice, operation of the generating facility may
cause disruption or deterioration of service to other customers served from the same
electric system, or if operating the generating facility could cause damage to the
utility’s distribution system. If, after notice, the Customer fails to remedy the adverse
operating effect within a reasonable time, the Utility may disconnect the generating
facility. The Utility shall provide the Customer with notice of such disconnection as
provided in the Utility’s service policies.
   7.   Access to premises. Utility shall have access to the Customer’s premises or
property.
   8.   Indemnity and liability. Each Party shall at all times indemnify, defend and hold
the other Party and its directors, officers, employees and agents, harmless from any and
all damages, losses, claims, including claims and actions relating to injury to or death
of any person or damage to property, demand, suits, recoveries, costs and expenses, court
costs, attorneys’ fees and all other obligations by or to third parties, arising out of
or resulting from the indemnifying Party’s action or failure to meet its obligations
under this Agreement.
   9.   Consequential damages. Other than as expressly provided for in this Agreement, no
Party shall be liable under any provision of this Agreement for any losses, damages,
costs or expenses for any special, indirect, incidental, consequential or punitive
damages, including, but not limited to, loss of profit or revenue, toss of the use of
equipment, cost of capital, cost of temporary equipment or services, whether based in
whole or in part in contract, in tort, including negligence, strict liability or any
other theory of liability; provided, however, that damages for which a Party may be
liable to the other Party under another agreement will not be considered to be special,
indirect, incidental or consequential damages hereunder.
   10.   Governing law. This Agreement shall be interpreted and governed under the laws
of the state.
   11.   Documents. The Agreement includes the following documents, which are attached
and incorporated by reference:
      A.   Application for interconnection;
      B.   System upgrade estimated costs; and
      C.   Certificate of completion.
   12.   Notices. All written notices shall be directed as follows:    
      Utility:   Scribner Municipal Power
         Scribner, NE 68756
      Customer:   Name _________________
            Address _______________
            City _________________
   13.   Term of agreement. This Agreement shall be in effect when signed by the Customer
and Utility and shall, remain in effect thereafter month to month unless terminated by
either Party on 30 days prior written notice and in accordance with the service policies.
                        Scribner Municipal Power
                        _____________________
                        Customer
                        _____________________
 
(Policy passed 1-24-2022)
CHAPTER 52: NATURAL GAS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Contracts and terms
   
52.02   Ownership
   
52.03   Definitions
   
52.04   Operation and Maintenance Manual and Emergency Plan
   
52.05   Occupation tax
   
52.06   Liability
   
52.07   Rates
General and Use Regulations
   
52.20   Consumer’s application
   
52.21   Plumbers
   
52.22   Expense; installation and re-installation; procedure
   
52.23   Meter examination
   
52.24   Inspection
   
52.25   Gas furnaces and boilers; permit
Prohibited Activity
   
52.40   Single premises; unlawful supply
   
52.41   Restricted use
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 52.01 CONTRACTS AND TERMS.
   (A)   The municipality, through its municipal gas system, shall furnish
natural gas for heating, cooling and manufacturing purposes to persons whose
premises abut on any main of the natural gas distribution system and may
furnish natural gas to such other persons within or without its corporate
limits, as and when, according to law, the Mayor and Council may see fit to do
so. The rules, regulations and rates for gas service, hereinafter named, in
this chapter, shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made
for gas service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
consumer now served by the municipal gas system. Without further formality, the
making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of
natural gas by present customers and the furnishing of gas service to said
applicant or consumer shall constitute a contract between applicant or customer
and the municipality, to which both parties are bound. If a customer should
violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and
regulations that the Mayor and Council may hereafter adopt, the Gas
Superintendent, or his or her agent, shall cut off or disconnect the gas
service from the building or place of such violation and no further connection
of gas service for such building or place shall again be made save or except by
order of the Gas Superintendent or his or her agent.
   (B)   Any person wishing to change from one location to another shall make a
new application by contacting the City Clerk/Treasurer’s office. If any
consumer shall sell, dispose or remove from the premises where service is
furnished in his or her name, or if said premises is destroyed by fire or other
casualty, he or she shall, at once, inform the Gas Superintendent who shall
cause the gas service to be shut off from said premises. If the consumer should
fail to give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all gas used on said
premises until the Gas Superintendent is otherwise advised of such
circumstance.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Ord. 423-00, passed 12-27-2000)
§ 52.02 OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality owns the municipal gas system and operates the
municipal gas system through the Gas Superintendent. The Mayor and Council, for
the purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management and maintenance of
the municipal gas system may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum
limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation.
      (2)   The revenue from said tax shall be known as the Gas Fund and shall
remain in the custody of the City Clerk/Treasurer. The Gas Superintendent shall
have the direct management and control of the municipal gas system and shall
faithfully carry out the duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations for the safe and efficient management
of the gas system subject to the supervision and review of the Mayor and
Council.
   (B)   The Mayor and Council shall, by ordinance, set the rates to be charged
for services rendered and shall file the same in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer for public inspection during normal business hours.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) (Ord. 423-00, passed 12-27-2000)
§ 52.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe that is used for the purpose of carrying gas to and
dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SINGLE PREMISES. No more than one customer procuring gas from a main.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) (Ord. 423-00, passed 12-27-2000)
§ 52.04 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL AND EMERGENCY PLAN.
   (A)   The Gas Superintendent shall develop an Operation and Maintenance
Manual and Emergency Plan which shall be submitted to and approved by the Mayor
and Council and filed with the State Fire Marshal’s Office of Pipeline Safety.
   (B)   The Gas Superintendent shall make such modifications and additions to
the plan as may be required from time to time and which shall be submitted to
the Mayor and City Council for review and approval and filing with the State
Fire Marshal’s Office of Pipeline Safety. No change shall be implemented until
such time as it receives the approval of the State Fire Marshal’s Office of
Pipeline Safety.
(Prior Code, § 52.04) (Ord. 423-00, passed 12-27-2000)
§ 52.05 OCCUPATION TAX.
   The municipal gas system may pay to the General Fund of the city an amount
to be determined of its gross receipts. This will be determined and paid
monthly for the prior monthly period. Such funds shall go to general
expenditures of the city.
(Prior Code, § 52.05) (Ord. 423-00, passed 12-27-2000)
§ 52.06 LIABILITY.
   The plumber who connects with the municipal gas distribution system shall be
held responsible for any damage he or she may cause to the gas line or the
public ways and property. He or she shall restore to the complete satisfaction
of the Gas Superintendent all streets that he or she has excavated and make
good any settlement of the ground or pavement caused by his or her excavations.
(Prior Code, § 52.06) (Ord. 423-00, passed 12-27-2000)
§ 52.07 RATES.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall, by ordinance, set the rates for gas
services furnished by the city, which rates shall be uniform for each class of
consumer. The rates for gas service may be changed from time to time by the
Mayor and City Council, by ordinance, and such change may reflect an increase
or decrease in established rates so long as the changed rates are uniform for
each class of consumer.
   (B)   These rates are adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein, and
a copy of current rates is on file in the office of the City Clerk and
available for inspection during regular business hours.
(Prior Code, § 52.07) (Ord. 465-05, passed 1-3-2005; Ord. 585-20, passed 3-30-
2020; Ord. 599-22, passed 12-27-2022)
**** GENERAL AND USE REGULATIONS ****
§ 52.20 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Every person or persons desiring gas service must make
application to the Gas Superintendent. Any applicant may be required to make a
service deposit in such amount as deemed necessary subject to the review of the
Mayor and Council.
      (2)   Gas may not be supplied to any house or building, except upon the
written order of the Gas Superintendent. The system shall not supply to any
person outside the corporate limits gas service without special permission from
the Mayor and Council.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to
supply gas service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 52.20) (Ord. 423-00, passed 12-27-2000)
§ 52.21 PLUMBERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any plumber to do any work upon any of the
pipes or appurtenances of the gas distribution system, or to make any
connection with or extension of the supply pipes of any consumer taking gas
from said system, until such plumber or pipe fitter shall have first contacted
the city office for approval.
   (B)   All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in
accordance with the rules, regulations and specifications for such installation
prescribed by the Gas Superintendent as detailed in the operations manual.
   (C)   The plumber shall be, at all times, subject to the inspection and
approval of the Gas Superintendent, and it shall be further unlawful to cover
or conceal willfully any defective or unsatisfactory gas piping work.
(Prior Code, § 52.21) (Ord. 423-00, passed 12-27-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.22 EXPENSE; INSTALLATION AND RE-INSTALLATION; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The expense of providing service from the main to the point of
delivery shall be paid by the consumer. For small residential customers located
adjacent to a main, the customer shall pay a tap fee of $500 which shall
compensate the municipality for the expense of installing the meter and
regulator, tapping the main and installing a service line. For commercial and
industrial customers adjacent to a main, said customer shall pay 100% of the
cost to the municipality for the expense of installing the meter and regulator,
tapping the main and installing a service line. Customers requiring service on
property not adjacent to a main shall pay the entire cost of installing the
meter and regulator, tapping the main, installing a service line and or
extension of the main. The municipality shall own all meters and regulators,
mains and service lines. Approval of the Gas Superintendent shall be required
as to location and installation of meters and regulators. The tapping fee of
$500 for the construction of a new residential home is now waived as long as
that fee along with other fees relating to newly constructed residences does
not exceed $1,500. Any fees due over $1,500 will be due the city by the builder
or homeowner.
   (B)   The expense of reinstalling service to a customer shall be the entire
cost of installing the meter and regulator, tapping the main and reinstalling
the service line.
   (C)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the pipes are laid, the
streets, alleys and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. Any such
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations and specifications prescribed by the Gas
Superintendent; provided, that said rules, regulations and specifications have
been reviewed and approved by the Mayor and Council.
(Prior Code, § 52.22) (Ord. 423-00, passed 12-27-2000; Ord. 479-05, passed 11-
28-2005; Ord. 519-12, passed 2-28-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.23 METER EXAMINATION.
   No person, except an authorized agent of the municipality, shall set meters
or make connections of the gas system of the municipality. The owner or tenant
of a premises where a meter is located shall provide ready and convenient
access to the meter so that it may easily be examined and read by the
authorized agent of the municipality. The Gas Superintendent may have any meter
tested to determine if it is registering the true amount of gas at any time at
the municipality’s expense. Any consumer of gas from the gas system may request
to have his or her gas meter tested by the municipality, which test shall be
conducted within 20 days. The initial cost of the test of the meter shall be
borne by the municipality, but, if the test of the meter discloses that the
meter is registering less than 2% above actual usage, the consumer shall be
billed the reasonable expense of making such test.
(Prior Code, § 52.23) (Ord. 423-00, passed 12-27-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.24 INSPECTION.
   The Gas Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agents shall be
permitted access between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.; provided, that
in the event of any emergency, such inspections may take place at any time, to
all parts of each premises and building to or in which gas is delivered for the
purpose of examining the pipes, flues, appliances and other portions of the
system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair or unsafe conditions. It
shall be the duty of every customer of the gas system to answer all questions
asked by the Gas Superintendent or his or her agent relative to the use and
consumption of gas.
(Prior Code, § 52.24) (Ord. 423-00, passed 12-27-2000)
§ 52.25 GAS FURNACES AND BOILERS; PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall install a gas furnace and/or a gas boiler within the
municipality or its environs where supplied with gas from the Municipal Gas
Department without first having procured a permit from the Gas Superintendent,
or to use such gas furnace and/or gas boiler during the period that a permit
may be revoked.
   (B)   The application for such permit shall be made in writing and shall
supply the following information on forms provided by the Gas Superintendent or
City Clerk:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Location of the premises where installation is proposed;
      (3)   Name of the manufacturer of the gas furnace and/or gas boiler;
      (4)   The BTU per hour rating of the gas furnace and/or gas; and
      (5)   The E rating of the gas furnace and/or gas boiler.
(Prior Code, § 52.25) (Ord. 423-00, passed 12-27-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** PROHIBITED ACTIVITY ****
§ 52.40 SINGLE PREMISES; UNLAWFUL SUPPLY.
   No consumer shall supply gas to another consumer or allow said other
consumer to take gas from his, her or its premises; nor after gas is supplied
into a building shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to
make a tap or connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration,
extension or attachment without the written permission of the Gas
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 52.35) (Ord. 423-00, passed 12-27-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.41 RESTRICTED USE.
   The municipal gas system does not guarantee the delivery of natural gas over
the mains of the distribution system, except when it has sufficient gas,
equipment and machinery to do so. The Gas Superintendent has the power and
authority to disconnect or discontinue such services for any good and
sufficient reason without liability. Subject to §
50.03, the municipality shall use due care and reasonable diligence to provide
the supply uninterrupted service to consumers, but shall not be liable for
damages resulting from interruption of service due to causes over which the
municipality has no control. Subject to §
50.03, the municipality expressly reserves the right to discontinue or
disconnect any consumer’s service without preliminary notice.
(Prior Code, § 52.36) (Ord. 423-00, passed 12-27-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 53: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Water Department; ownership
   
53.003   Police reports
   
53.004   Addition of fluoride to system
General and Use Regulations
   
53.015   Consumer’s application
   
53.016   Installation procedure; expense
   
53.017   Plumbers; liability
   
53.018   Time; system work
   
53.019   Repairs and maintenance
   
53.020   Meters
   
53.021   Mandatory hook-up
   
53.022   Inspection
   
53.023   Line piping size
   
53.024   Lead pipes, solder and flux
Prohibited Activity
   
53.035   Single premises; water supply
   
53.036   Restricted use
   
53.037   Fire hydrants
   
53.038   Pollution of supply
   
53.039   Excavations
   
53.040   Frozen attachments
   
53.041   Destruction of property
   
53.042   Portable tank delivery charge
Backflow/Backsiphonage Prevention
   
53.055   Cross-Connection Control Officer
   
53.056   Reporting potential cross-connections
   
53.057   Installation of backflow device
   
53.058   Violations
Water Wells and Underground Facilities
   
53.070   Permit required
   
53.071   Permit procedure
   
53.072   Designated distances; prohibition
 
   
53.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 53.01)
§ 53.002 WATER DEPARTMENT; OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns the Municipal Water Department and operates the same
through the Utility Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the Municipal
Water Department, shall each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from said tax shall be known as the Water Works Fund and shall remain
in the custody of the Municipal Clerk. The Utility Superintendent shall have
the direct management and control of the Municipal Water Department and shall
faithfully carry out the duties of his or her office. The Utility
Superintendent shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the
sanitary and efficient management of the Water Department subject to the
supervision and review of the governing body. The governing body shall set the
rates to be charged for services rendered by resolution and shall file the same
in the office of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
(Prior Code, § 53.02)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534 and 19-1305
§ 53.003 POLICE REPORTS.
   It shall be the duty of the municipal police to report to the Utility
Superintendent all cases of leakage and waste in the use of water and all
violations of this code relating to the Water Department. They shall have the
additional duty of enforcing the observance of all such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 53.03)
§ 53.004 ADDITION OF FLUORIDE TO SYSTEM.
   Fluoride shall be added to the water supply system of this city.
(Prior Code, § 53.04) (Ord. 226, passed 3-4-1974)
**** GENERAL AND USE REGULATIONS ****
§ 53.015 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person or other legal entity desiring a supply of water or
change in line size shall make application therefor to the City Clerk who shall
forward the application to the City Utility Superintendent for his or her
review and approval. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee as
determined, from time to time, by resolution of the City Council. Water will
not be supplied to any customer without the prior approval of the Utility
Superintendent.
   (B)   The Department shall not supply to any person outside the corporate
limits water service without special permission from the governing body;
provided, that the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe
shall be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate
the municipality to provide water service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 53.15) (Ord. 586-20, passed 6-22-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537 and 19-2701
§ 53.016 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE; EXPENSE.
   (A)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of 48 hours or more, the Utility Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the consumer. All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly
in accordance with the rules, regulations and specifications prescribed for
such installation by the Utility Superintendent; provided, that said rules,
regulations and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the governing
body.
   (B)   (1)   Applicants for water service shall pay for the laying of all
pipe and connections from the curb stop to the building to be served. All lines
installed from the curb stop to building to be served shall be continuous line
size and be inspected prior to being covered with earth by the City Utility
Superintendent. Water lines sizes allowed by the city for new installation
shall be: three-quarters inch, one-inch, one and one-half-inch, two-inch,
three-inch and four-inch. Any other applications for larger sizes will be made
to the Utility Superintendent. The city shall pay for the pipe and installation
expense from the main to the curb stop, except for the tap fee which shall be
paid by the applicant. The tap fee shall be waived for new construction of
residential housing as long as that fee and other fees relating to newly
constructed residences do not exceed $1,500. Any fees over $1,500 will be due
to the city by the builder or homeowners. Applicants for water whose property
does not abut a street upon which the mains are laid shall, in addition to the
tap fee, pay for the laying of pipe and other installation expense not greater
than 300 feet from the curb line to the nearest street in which a water main is
located by the most direct and practical route which shall be selected by the
Utility Superintendent. The tap fee shall be set by resolution of the city and
will be on file at the office of the City Clerk which shall be available for
public inspection during normal business hours. A basic tap is set for three-
inch pipe, and the fee shall be proportionally greater the larger the pipe
intended to be connected. The city shall provide a stop valve and meter for
each customer and shall pay for the installation thereof.
      (2)   The consumer shall be additionally required to pay the expense of
procuring the services of a plumber and shall pay the expense of furnishing and
installing pipe, trenching and the necessary labor to bring water service to
the place of disbursement.
(Prior Code, § 53.16) (Ord. 479-05, passed 11-28-2005; Ord. 586-20, passed 6-
22-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537 and 17-542
§ 53.017 PLUMBERS; LIABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any plumber to do any work on any of
the pipes or appurtenances of the city waterworks, or to make any connection
with or extensions of the supply pipes of any customer taking water from said
system until such plumber has received permission from the City Utility
Superintendent. All plumbing shall be skillfully done and pursuant to the
instructions of the City Utility Superintendent.
      (2)   The work to be performed shall at all times be subject to the
inspection and approval of the City Utility Superintendent, and it is
determined unlawful to cover without inspection of entire installation and
backfill/cover or conceal willfully and defective plumbing work.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of any plumber doing work on or in
connection with the municipal water system to restore all streets and sidewalks
over all pipes he or she may lay, and fill all excavations made by him or her
so as to leave said streets, sidewalks and pavements in as good condition as he
or she found them.
      (2)   He or she shall keep and maintain the same in good order to the
satisfaction of the Utility Superintendent for a period of six months
thereafter. Failure to maintain said conditions shall result in the Utility
Superintendent making repairs and all expenses incurred shall be charged to the
consumer.
(Prior Code, § 53.17) (Ord. 586-20, passed 6-22-2020) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.018 TIME; SYSTEM WORK.
   All taps or plumbing work done on or to the municipal water system shall be
done between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 53.18)
§ 53.019 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All repairs to the service pipe, or other appurtenances leading from
the shut-off to the meter shall be paid by the consumer.
   (B)   Maintenance of the supply pipe and the main shall be the
responsibility of the municipality.
   (C)   All other expenses shall be charged to the consumer.
   (D)   In the event that damage is done to the meter due to the negligence of
the consumer in allowing the same to freeze, it shall be the additional
responsibility of the consumer to pay for such repairs as may be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 53.19)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 53.020 METERS.
   (A)   All water meters shall be read each month. The meter reader shall read
said meters between the first and third working day of each month for water
service used for prior month consumption.
   (B)   In the event that a meter is broken or otherwise fails to register
accurately the use of water by any consumer, the governing body shall determine
by resolution the appropriate rate to charge for billing purposes.
(Prior Code, § 53.20) (Ord. 427-01, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 53.021 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the governing body, to hook-up with the municipal water system.
(Prior Code, § 53.21)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-532
§ 53.022 INSPECTION.
   The Utility Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall have
free access, at all hours of the day or night, to all parts of each premises
and building to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining
the pipes, fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there
is any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 53.22)
§ 53.023 LINE PIPING SIZE.
   The Utility Superintendent or his or her duly authorized representative
shall determine and identify all existing water line size based on the size of
piping coming from the curb stop and through the wall or floor supplying the
water meter. The Utility Superintendent may order a change of line piping size
for outdated piping sizes to standard piping sizes for purpose of eliminating
special order connections and meters.
(Ord. 586-20, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 53.024 LEAD PIPES, SOLDER AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation or repair of a
residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LEAD FREE.
         (a)   Solders and flux: not more than 0.2% lead; and
         (b)   Pipe and pipe fittings: not more than 8% lead.
(Ord. 357, passed 5-2-1988)
**** PROHIBITED ACTIVITY ****
§ 53.035 SINGLE PREMISES; WATER SUPPLY.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or suffer them to take
water off his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to snake a tap or
connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or
attachment without the written permission of the Utility Superintendent. When
the same pipe supplies two or more distinct premises, there shall be provided a
separate stop valve for each of such premises, so the water supply may be shut
off from one without interfering with the supply of the other.
(Prior Code, § 53.35) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.036 RESTRICTED USE.
   The governing body or the Utility Superintendent may order a reduction in
the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The municipality shall
not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the municipality
has no control.
(Prior Code, § 53.36)
§ 53.037 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby
declared to be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other
than city maintenance employees or members of the Municipal Fire Department
under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the Assistant Fire Chiefs to open or
attempt to open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any
manner to interfere with the hydrants.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person connected to the municipal water
system to allow any hydrant, tap, hose, bath or other fixture to run constantly
and to fail to keep the same closed when not in use, and the consumer shall be
responsible for any damage or injury that may result to others from the
improper use of said water.
   (C)   No hydrant for public drinking fountains shall be placed within the
limits of any street unless such hydrant be securely closed and protected
against general use. No drinking fountain shall be placed within the limits of
any street, and drinking fountains shall be erected for public use which has
openings by which it can be used as a source of domestic supply.
(Prior Code, § 53.37) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.038 POLLUTION OF SUPPLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 53.38) Penalty, see §
53.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-536
§ 53.039 EXCAVATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to make an excavation in any street within six feet of
any laid water pipe while ground is frozen or uncover the same so as to expose
to the frost any pipe belonging to the municipality, except under the direction
of the Utility Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 53.39) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.040 FROZEN ATTACHMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of each consumer to keep his or her own pipe and
attachments in order and from becoming frozen. No reduction in rates will be
made for the time any pipe may be frozen or out of use from any cause.
(Prior Code, § 53.40) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.041 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utility Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 53.41) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.042 PORTABLE TANK DELIVERY CHARGE.
   All parties requesting water for portable tank delivery shall be charged the
sum of $10 per 1,000 gallons delivered. All such water charges shall be paid to
the City Clerk who shall provide a receipt for such delivered water.
(Ord. 586-20, passed 6-22-2020)
**** BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION ****
§ 53.055 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL OFFICER.
   A Cross-Connection Control Officer shall be appointed by the City Council to
oversee the enforcement of this subchapter. This person shall be responsible
for reviewing the surveys submitted by the customers of the Municipal Water
Department and determining if a backflow prevention device is required to
comply with 179 NAC 2, “Regulations Governing Public Water Supply Systems.”
(Prior Code, § 53.55) (Ord. 444-03, passed 5-27-2003)
§ 53.056 REPORTING POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All customers of the municipal water department shall be required by
the Cross-Connection Control Officer any potential cross-connections which may
be on their premises.
   (B)   This report shall be made at least every five years.
(Prior Code, § 53.56) (Ord. 444-03, passed 5-27-2003)
§ 53.057 INSTALLATION OF BACKFLOW DEVICE.
   (A)   A customer of the Municipal Water Department may be required by the
Cross-Connection Control Officer to install and maintain a properly located
backflow prevention device at the customer’s expense appropriate to the
potential hazard as set forth in 179 NAC 2, “Regulations Governing Public Water
System/Systems” and approved by the Cross-Connection Control Officer.
   (B)   (1)   The customer shall make application to the Cross-Connection
Control Officer to install a required backflow prevention device on a form
provided by the municipality.
      (2)   The application shall contain at a minimum the name and address of
the applicant, the type of backflow prevention device to be installed,
including make and model number, and the location of the proposed installation.
   (C)   The Cross-Connection Control Officer shall approve or disapprove the
application based on whether such installation will protect the municipal water
distribution system from potential backflow and backsiphonage hazards.
   (D)   When a testable backflow prevention device shall be required, the
customer shall also certify to the municipality at least one time annually the
backflow prevention device has been tested by a State Health and Human Services
System Grade VI certified Utility Superintendent. Such certification shall be
made on a form available at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
   (E)   Any decision of the Cross-Connection Control Officer may be appealed
to the City Council, whose decision shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 53.57) (Ord. 444-03, passed 5-27-2003)
§ 53.058 VIOLATIONS.
   Any customer refusing to report on possible cross-connections on his or her
premises, refusing to install the necessary backflow prevention device or
failing to have a testable backflow prevention device tested at least annually
shall be in violation of this subchapter and may have his or her water service
discontinued. Any customer who has had his or her service discontinued for
violation of this subchapter shall be subject to a $50 reconnect fee to have
the service reinstated after supplying proof that the potential cross-
connection has been eliminated or property protected.
(Prior Code, § 53.58) (Ord. 444-03, passed 5-27-2003)
**** WATER WELLS AND UNDERGROUND FACILITIES ****
§ 53.070 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
subchapter, it is ordered that no new domestic or commercial water wells shall
be drilled and maintained within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   From and after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
subchapter, all persons or other legal entities desiring to construct domestic
and/or commercial water wells within the Agricultural Zoning District of the
city shall first obtain approval of the City Council for a permit. Such
approval shall not be granted if a city water line is accessible within a
distance of 300 feet of the applicant’s property.
(Prior Code, § 153.01) (Ord. 398, passed 4-24-1995; Ord. 449-03, passed 7-28-
2003; Ord. 584-20, passed 3-30-2020) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.071 PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In order to obtain a permit to drill and/or operate any of the
facilities listed in §
53.070, the owner of property on which the proposed facility is to be located
must make application on the proper form provided by the governing body of the
city.
   (B)   Such application must be presented to the City Council at any regular
or special meeting. After reviewing the application of any person desiring to
drill or operate any of the above described facilities, then the City Council
must approve or deny said permit.
(Prior Code, § 153.02) (Ord. 398, passed 4-24-1995; Ord. 449-03, passed 7-28-
2003)
§ 53.072 DESIGNATED DISTANCES; PROHIBITION.
   For the purpose of preventing pollution of the municipal water supply, it
shall be unlawful to cause pollution or be in a position to cause pollution to
the public water supply by willfully or carelessly allowing the following
facilities, acts or events with the specified footage of the city public water
supply wells as follows.
Chemical or petroleum product storage                   500 feet
Corral                                                  500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff                               1,000 feet
Land application of municipal/industrial waste material 1,000 feet
Pit toilet, vault toilet                                500 feet
Sanitary landfill/dump                                  500 feet
Sanitary sewer connection                               100 feet
Sanitary sewer manhole                                  100 feet
Sanitary sewer line                                     50 feet
Sewage lagoon                                           1,000 feet
Sewage treatment plant                                  500 feet
Sewage wet well                                         500 feet
Underground disposal system (septic system and the like 500 feet
Wastewater holding tank                                 500 feet
Water well                                              1,000 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 153.03) (Ord. 398, passed 4-24-1995; Ord. 449-03, passed 7-28-
2003; Ord. 582-19, passed 10-28-2019) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   In the event any of the facilities described in §§
53.070 through
53.072 are installed or operated without first having obtained a permit from
the city and/or within a designated number of feet from the municipal water
supply, then such facilities shall be deemed a nuisance and the governing body
shall abate such facility as a public nuisance pursuant to §
53.070. In addition thereto, any person violating any of the terms of this
chapter is hereby determined to be guilty of a Class III misdemeanor as the
same is defined by state statutes. The penalty for such violation shall be that
as defined by state law for the violation of a Class III misdemeanor.
   (C)   All persons or legal entities drilling and maintain water wells from
and after the effective date of the ordinance codified in §
53.072 contrary to the provisions provided therein shall be in violation of
this chapter and fined in a sum not to exceed $500, and each day’s offense
shall be a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 153.99) (Ord. 449-03, passed 7-28-2003; Ord. 584-20, passed 3-
30-2020)
CHAPTER 54: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Ownership
General and Use Regulations
   
54.15   Permit; application
   
54.16   Mandatory hook-up
   
54.17   Plumbers; liability
   
54.18   Installation procedure; expense
   
54.19   Repairs and maintenance
   
54.20   Old sewers
   
54.21   Special equipment
   
54.22   Manholes
   
54.23   Inspections
Unlawful Discharges
   
54.35   Unlawful disposal
   
54.36   Types of discharges
   
54.37   Stormwater and other unpolluted water
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 54.01 OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   The municipality owns the municipal sewer system and operates the same
through the Utility Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the management and maintenance of the municipal sewer
system, shall, each year, levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed
by state law on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from said
tax shall be known as the Sanitary Sewer System Fund.
   (B)   The official in charge of sewers shall have the direct management and
control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of
his or her office. The Utility Superintendent shall have the authority to adopt
rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Department subject to the supervision and review of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 54.01)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-149 and 17-925.01
**** GENERAL AND USE REGULATIONS ****
§ 54.15 PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the Utility Superintendent or Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   He or she may require any applicant to make a service deposit in such
amount as he or she deems necessary subject to the review of the governing
body. Sewer service may not be supplied to any house or building, except upon
the written order of the Utility Superintendent. The Department shall not
supply sewer service to any person outside the corporate limits without special
permission from the governing body; provided, that the entire cost of pipe and
other installation charges shall be paid by such consumers. The tapping fee for
sewer shall be waived for all new construction of residential housing as long
as that fee along with other fees relating to newly constructed residences do
not exceed $1,500. Any fees due over $1,500 will be due the city by the builder
or homeowner.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to
provide sewer service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 54.15) (Ord. 479-05, passed 11-28-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2701
§ 54.16 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   (A)   Upon written notice by the Utility Superintendent the property owner,
occupant or lessee shall without delay cause said building to be connected with
the sewer system and equipped with inside sewage facilities.
   (B)   The property owner, occupant or lessee of any premises, house,
building or property used for human employment, recreation or other purposes
abutting on any street, alley, right-of-way or easement in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is
hereby required to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect
such facilities directly with the public sewer in accordance with the revisions
of this chapter without delay within 90 days after the date of official notice
to do so. Every building hereafter shall be connected with the sewer system at
the time of its construction.
(Prior Code, § 54.16) (Ord. 491-07, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 54.17 PLUMBERS; LIABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in
or conduct the business of sewer connection and house drainage, excavate any
trenches for sewer pipe, open, uncover or in any manner make connection with or
lay any sewer drain, or attach to, modify or repair any appurtenances thereto
without complying with the rules and regulations of the Utility Superintendent;
provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to apply to persons, firms or
corporations under special contract with the municipality for the construction,
extension or repair of the municipal sewer system.
   (B)   The plumber who connects with the public sewer shall be held
responsible for any damage he or she may cause to the sewers or the public ways
and property. He or she shall restore, to the complete satisfaction of the
Utility Superintendent, all streets that he or she excavated and make good any
upset of the ground or pavement caused by his or her excavations.
(Prior Code, § 54.17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.18 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE; EXPENSE.
   (A)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of 48 hours or more, the Chief Sewer Officer shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the owner, occupant or lessee of the property. All installation shall be done
under the supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations
and specifications for such installation prescribed by the Utility
Superintendent; provided, that said rules, regulations and specifications have
been reviewed and approved by the governing body.
   (B)   The property owner shall have the responsibility of paying the tap fee
set by resolution of the governing body. The expense of installation and the
necessary pipe and equipment from the main to the place of use within the
building shall be the expense of the property owner. Customers outside the
corporate limits shall be required to pay the entire expense of installation
and hook-up.
   (C)   All new or replacement sewer lines must have located wire run from the
main to said premises.
(Prior Code, § 54.18)
§ 54.19 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All repairs or replacements to sewer pipes between the main to the
place of use within the building shall be made by the property owner.
   (B)   Repairs to the main sewer line shall be made by the municipality at
the expense of the municipality, except in the service of nonresidents when the
entire cost of repair shall be paid by the customer.
(Prior Code, § 54.19)
§ 54.20 OLD SEWERS.
   (A)   Old house sewers and drains may be used in connection with new
buildings or new plumbing only when they are found, on examination by the
Utility Superintendent, to conform in all respects to the requirements
governing new sewers and drains.
   (B)   If the old work is found defective or otherwise unsatisfactory, he or
she shall notify the owner to make the necessary changes to conform with the
provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 54.20)
§ 54.21 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   In the event a customer of the Municipal Sewer Department
discharges an unusually large amount of waste daily, an unusually large amount
of grease or oil or waste with an unusually high biochemical oxygen demand, the
Utility Superintendent may require said customer to install interceptors or
other preliminary treatment equipment to reduce the objectionable
characteristics of the waste to within such maximum limits as he or she shall
prescribe subject to the review of the governing body.
      (2)   All preliminary treatment facilities shall be purchased and
maintained continuously in satisfactory and efficient operation at the
customer’s expense.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit a special agreement or
arrangement between the governing body and an industrial concern whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the
municipality for treatment subject to additional rental fees or other charges.
(Prior Code, § 54.21)
§ 54.22 MANHOLES.
   (A)   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose except by
authorized persons is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be deposited in any
receptacle connected with the sewer system any substance which is not the usual
and natural waste carried by the sewer system without the permission of the
Municipal Sewer Department.
(Prior Code, § 54.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.23 INSPECTIONS.
   The Utility Superintendent or his or her authorized agents shall have free
access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and building
which is connected with the sewer system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or violations hereof.
(Prior Code, § 54.23)
**** UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES ****
§ 54.35 UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for the owner of any lot or parcel of
ground in the municipality to permit or maintain any privy vault, cesspool or
other receptacle for human excrement not connected with and drained by the
municipal sewer system; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to
apply to existing privy vaults, cesspools or other similar receptacles already
in existence unless the same shall be closed or sealed, as per city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 54.35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.36 TYPES OF DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff or subsurface drainage, to any sanitary sewer,
uncontaminated cooling water and unpolluted industrial process waters may be
discharged to a sanitary sewer only if expressly authorized by the authority.
(Prior Code, § 54.36) (Ord. 208, passed 11-6-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.37 STORMWATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drain be discharged to such sewers as
are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the Utility Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters shall be discharged, at the request of the approving
authority, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 54.37) (Ord. 209, passed 11-6-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 55: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
55.01   Purpose
   
55.02   Definition
   
55.03   Storing or stockpiling solid waste prohibited
   
55.04   Rates and charges
   
55.05   Transportation and disposal of solid waste
   
55.06   Opting out of city garbage collection
 
   
55.99   Penalty
§ 55.01 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to cities and villages within the state by
the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, Neb. RS 13-2001 through 13-2043, the
following rules and regulations are adopted and imposed on residents within the
city who wish to option out of the city’s garbage collection and disposal
service.
(Ord. 587-20, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 55.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERMITTED FACILITY/PERMITTED LANDFILL. A landfill approved by the Director
of the State Department of Environmental Quality and shall include that term as
set forth under Neb. RS 13-2020 and applicable rules and regulations of the
state.
(Ord. 587-20, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 55.03 STORING OR STOCKPILING SOLID WASTE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall be permitted to store or stockpile solid waste within the
limits of the city when such solid waste would create a nuisance as described
in the state law or city ordinance governing nuisances within the cities’
jurisdiction, and no person shall store or stockpile solid waste within the
city for a period of 14 days or more.
(Ord. 587-20, passed 5-27-2020) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.04 RATES AND CHARGES.
   All solid waste generators within the jurisdiction of the city shall be
subject to and liable for the rates and charges established by the city for
solid waste collection, handling and disposal by the city, except as exempted
hereinafter by these rules and regulations.
(Ord. 587-20, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 55.05 TRANSPORTATION AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE.
   Any solid waste generator within the city may elect to transport and dispose
of such generator’s solid waste at a state permitted facility so long as the
solid waste of such solid waste generator is safely and sanitarily transported
by the solid waste generator to a state permitted landfill and so long as such
solid waste generator shall further comply with these rules and regulations and
provide the city with a written statement and receipts as hereinafter
described. When complying with these rules, such solid waste generator shall be
exempt from payment of the rates and charges of the city for solid waste
collection and disposal during the applicable period.
(Ord. 587-20, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 55.06 OPTING OUT OF CITY GARBAGE COLLECTION.
   (A)   The solid waste generator desiring to be exempt from the rates and
charges of the city shall first provide to the city a written statement
described herein and be governed as follows.
      (1)   The statement shall set forth the full legal name of the solid
waste generator and/or person liable for the solid waste account if such solid
waste were collected and disposed by the city.
      (2)   The statement shall be signed by the solid waste generator.
      (3)   The statement shall set forth the date when the solid waste
generator will cease using the services of the city and will commence
transporting and disposing of all of the generator’s solid waste to a state
permitted landfill.
      (4)   The statement shall acknowledge that the solid waste generator is
utilizing an alternate landfill facility and is therefore not permitted,
licensed or authorized to use or receive services of the city for collection,
handling or disposal of solid waste generated by such person.
      (5)   The statement shall provide that the solid waste generator
acknowledges that any violation of rules and regulations of the city or any
breach of the rules and regulations of the city, including the unauthorized use
of the city facilities, during such period that the statement is in effect,
will subject the solid waste generator to the assessment of fees charged other
similar residents of the city, which fees, if unpaid after demand, may be
assessed as a special assessment against the property from which solid waste
was generated and may subject the solid waste generator to fines as set forth
hereafter.
      (6)   The statement shall further provide that the solid waste generator
acknowledges the responsibility to provide the city with the receipts as
required from time to time proving the safe and sanitary transportation and
disposal of the solid waste generator’s solid waste at a permitted facility
located outside of the state.
   (B)   The foregoing written statement may be executed and provided to the
city at any time and shall be effective with regard to exemption for rates and
charges commencing the next billing period of the city. The statement, once
filed with the city, shall be deemed to be an election by the solid waste
generator to opt out of the city’s collection and disposal services, and the
solid waste generator shall be deemed to remain as a person opting out of the
city’s services for collection and disposal until such time as the solid waste
generator gives written notice that the generator desires to become a customer
of the city, or if the solid waste generator fails to provide the receipts as
hereinafter provided.
   (C)   In the event that any person shall have elected to option out of the
city’s jurisdiction, and shall thereafter wish to become a customer of the
city, then such person shall not be eligible to again option out for a period
of one year after the solid waste generator has rejoined the city as a customer
of the city.
   (D)   A receipt from a permitted facility shall mean a written receipt from
the permitted facility. The receipt shall set forth the solid waste generator’s
name, address, date of disposal, quantity of disposal, type of waste disposed,
the name and an address of the permitted facility and shall bear the original
signature of the authorized agent of the permitted facility.
   (E)   The solid waste generator shall submit at least two receipts monthly
from the alternate permitted facility.
   (F)   The city reserves at all times the right to reject any receipt or
written statement if the same is not prepared and filed with the city in
accordance with these rules and regulations. Each written statement and receipt
shall first be approved by the city pursuant to Neb. RS 13-2020.
   (G)   In the event that any solid waste generator fails to follow the rules
and regulations adopted herein to option out of utilization of the city’s solid
waste collection service, such solid waste generator shall be billed the normal
waste collection charge as imposed by the city, and, upon the waste generator’s
failure to pay such charges, the city may assess such charges as a special
assessment against the property owned or controlled by the waste generator.
(Ord. 587-20, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   Any party or other legal entity violating any of the terms of this chapter
or disposing of any solid waste generated by such party or other legal entity
at a facility not licensed by the state shall be in violation of this chapter
and subject to a fine in a sum of not to exceed $500. Each day’s violation
shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 587-20, passed 5-27-2020)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
   
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Emergency regulations
   
70.03   Police enforcement
   
70.04   Prohibitions on operation of vehicles
   
70.05   Failure or refusal to obey order
   
70.06   Authorized emergency vehicles; privileges
   
70.07   Traffic officers
   
70.08   Traffic citations
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such Fire Department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles, and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as
are designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when,
within any 600 feet along such highway, there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations or public buildings which occupy at least 300 feet
of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for the purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices” adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled
and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Police Chief or other chief law enforcement official, any
city police officer or any other person authorized to enforce city ordinances.
With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also include any
person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a Business District when the property on such highway, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two
or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
State Department of Transportation or City Council as a school crossing zone
through the use of a sign or traffic control device as specified by the City
Council in conformity with the Manual, but does not include any area of a
freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at the location of the first sign or
traffic control device identifying the school crossing zone and continues until
a sign or traffic control device indicates that the school crossing zone has
ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. The part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed for
the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals and vehicles and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any highway for the
purposes of travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or other device not
inconsistent with the state’s Rules of the Road, Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., placed
or erected by the authority of the City Council or any official having
jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the state’s Rules of
the Road, Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., or of any law, ordinance, order, rule or
regulation regulating traffic which is not otherwise declared to be a
misdemeanor or a felony or, in this title, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
§ 70.02 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) (Ord. 264, passed 7-12-1976)
§ 70.03 POLICE ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department is hereby authorized, empowered and ordered to
exercise all powers, and duties, with relation to the management of street
traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate and, when necessary,
temporarily divert or exclude in the interest of public safety, health and
convenience the movement of pedestrian and animal and vehicular traffic of
every kind in streets, in parks and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall
stop upon the signal of any police officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 PROHIBITIONS ON OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council may by ordinance or resolution prohibit the
operation of vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight
of vehicles, for a total period not to exceed 180 days in any one calendar
year, when operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for the
maintenance of which the City Council is responsible whenever any such highway,
by reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic condition, will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited
or the permissible weight thereof reduced.
      (2)   The City Council shall erect or cause to be erected and maintained
signs designating the provisions of the ordinance or resolution at each end of
that portion of any highway affected thereby, and the ordinance or resolution
shall not be effective until such signs are erected and maintained.
   (B)   The City Council may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the
operation of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to
the weight thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations
shall be designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-681)
§ 70.05 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO OBEY ORDER.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly fails or refuses to obey any lawful order of
any peace officer who is controlling or directing traffic shall be guilty of a
traffic infraction.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly fails to obey any lawful order of a peace
officer shall be guilty of an offense whenever such order is given in
furtherance of the apprehension of a person who has violated the state’s Rules
of the Road, Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., or this title or of a person whom such
officer reasonably believes has violated the Rules or this title.
(Neb. RS 60-6,110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   Subject to the conditions stated in the state’s Rules of the Road,
Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., and this title, the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle, when responding to an emergency call, when pursuing an actual or
suspected violator of the law, or when responding to, but not when returning
from, a fire alarm may:
      (1)   Stop, park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of the Rules
and this title, and disregard regulations governing the direction of movement
or turning in specified directions; and
      (2)   Except for wreckers towing disabled vehicles and highway
maintenance vehicles and equipment:
         (a)   Proceed past a steady red indication, a flashing red indication
or a stop sign, but only after slowing down as may be necessary for safe
operation; and
         (b)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life, limb or property.
   (B)   Except when operated as a police vehicle, the exemptions granted in
division (A) above shall apply only when the driver of such vehicle, while in
motion, sounds an audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be
reasonably necessary and when such vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted light displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle.
   (C)   The exemptions granted in division (A) above shall not relieve the
driver from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor shall such provisions protect such driver from the consequences of his or
her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (D)   Authorized emergency vehicles operated by police and fire departments
shall not be subject to the size and weight limitations of Neb. RS 60-6,288
through 60-6,290 and 60-6,294.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114)
§ 70.07 TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   (A)   The City Council or the city police may at any time detail officers,
to be known as “traffic officers,” at street intersections.
   (B)   All traffic officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate
and control traffic at the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall
be their duty to direct the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and
accidents.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any order or signal of
any such traffic officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or signal
device that may have been placed at any such intersection.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.08 TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   (A)   Form and record. The Police Chief shall provide, in appropriate form,
traffic citations containing notices to appear. The Police Chief shall be
responsible for the issuance of such books and shall maintain a record of every
such book, and each citation number therein issued. The Police Chief shall
require and retain a receipt for every book so issued. The Police Chief shall
require the return of all copies of every traffic citation which has been
spoiled, or upon which any entry has been made and not issued to an alleged
violator.
(Prior Code, § 70.06)
   (B)   Disposition and records.
      (1)   The Chief of Police, upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of this chapter, shall deposit a copy of the traffic
citation with the County Attorney, unless the citation is just a warning.
      (2)   Upon the deposit of the traffic citation with the County Attorney,
such citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court of appropriate
jurisdiction, or other official action by the judge of the court, including a
forfeiture of bail, or by the deposit of sufficient bail with or payment of a
fine to the court by the person to whom such traffic citation has been issued.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for the Chief of Police to dispose of a
traffic citation, or copies thereof, or of the record of the issuance of the
same in a manner other than as required herein.
(Prior Code, § 70.07)
   (C)   Illegal cancellation. Any person who cancels or solicits the
cancellation of any traffic citation in any manner other than as provided in
this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 70.08)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 29-422 and 29-424
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   One-way traffic
   
71.02   Traffic lanes; designation
   
71.03   Crosswalks
   
71.04   Sign; signals
   
71.05   Stop signs
   
71.06   School crossing zones; designation
   
71.07   Driving abreast
   
71.08   Careless driving
   
71.09   Drunk driving
   
71.10   Child passenger restraint system
   
71.11   Tire requirements and prohibitions; permissive uses
   
71.12   Overcrowding vehicle body
Speed Limits
   
71.25   Basic rule
   
71.26   Near schools
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 71.01 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
   The City Council may, by resolution, provide for one-way travel in any
street, or alley located in the municipality and shall provide for appropriate
signs and markings when said streets have been so designated by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 71.02)
§ 71.02 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable.
(Prior Code, § 71.03)
§ 71.03 CROSSWALKS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, establish and maintain by appropriate
devices, markers or lines upon the street crosswalks at intersections where
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street, and at such
other places as it may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 71.04)
§ 71.04 SIGN; SIGNALS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop signs
or other signs, signals, standards or mechanical devices in any street or alley
under the municipality’s jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating or
prohibiting traffic thereon. Such resolution shall describe the portion of the
street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited, the
regulation or prohibition, the location where such sign, signal, standard or
mechanical device shall be placed and the hours when such regulation or
prohibition shall be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with such regulation or prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 71.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,119 through 60-6,121
§ 71.05 STOP SIGNS.
   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop sign
erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed heretofore, cause such
vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any street,
highway or railroad crossing. The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop
line, or, if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk; but if
neither is indicated, then as near the right-of-way line of the intersecting
roadway as possible.
(Prior Code, § 71.06)
§ 71.06 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES; DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Neb. RS 60-682.01 provides fines for operating a motor vehicle in
violation of authorized speed limits and states that the fines are doubled if
the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
   (B)   Neb. RS 60-6,134.01 makes it unlawful for a person operating a motor
vehicle to overtake and pass another vehicle in a school crossing zone in which
the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction and provides fines
for violation of that prohibition.
   (C)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate to the public any area
of a roadway, other than a freeway, as a school crossing zone through the use
of a sign or traffic control device as specified by the City Council in
conformity with the “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.” Any school
crossing zone so designated starts at the location of the first sign or traffic
control device identifying the school crossing zone and continues until a sign
or traffic control device indicates that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Prior Code, § 71.07) (Ord. 412-98, passed 10-26-1998; Ord. 413-98, passed 10-
26-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-658.01
§ 71.07 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast, except when passing or
when traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; provided, that motorcycles may
be driven no more than two abreast in a single lane.
(Prior Code, § 71.08) (Ord. 234, passed 12-2-1974) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,139 and 60-6,308
§ 71.08 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle in the municipality carelessly or
without due caution so as to endanger a person or property shall be guilty of
careless driving.
(Prior Code, § 71.09) (Ord. 316, passed 3-3-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,212
§ 71.09 DRUNK DRIVING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or be in actual
physical control of any motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic
liquor or of any drug. Any person who shall operate or be in control of any
motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or any drug shall
be deemed guilty of a crime and, upon conviction thereof, such person shall be
punished as provided by state law. For purpose of this section, the
determination of whether an individual is under the influence of either alcohol
or drugs shall be as prescribed in the statutes of the state.
   (B)   Upon the conviction of any person for the violation of this section,
there shall be assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by any
physician or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued in
accordance with Neb. RS 60-6,201 for the test administered and the analysis
thereof if such test was actually made.
(Ord. 285, passed 1-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,196 through 60-6,203
§ 71.10 CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Any person driving any motor vehicle which has or is required to have
seat safety belts shall ensure that all children under the age of four or
weighing less than 40 pounds being transported in such vehicle use a child
restraint system of a type which meets Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard
213, as developed by the Highway Safety Administration as of the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this section and which is correctly installed in
such vehicle and all children weighing 40 pounds or more or at least four years
of age and younger than five years of age being transported in such vehicle use
a seat safety belt; provided, however, that this section does not apply to
taxicabs, mopeds, motorcycles and any other vehicle designated by the
manufacturer as a 1963 year model or earlier which is not equipped with a seat
safety belt.
   (B)   Whenever any physician licensed to practice medicine in the state
determines, through accepted medical procedures, that use of a child passenger
restraint system by a particular child would be harmful by reason of the
child’s weight, physical condition or other medical reason, the provisions of
division (A) above shall be waived. The driver of any vehicle transporting such
a child shall carry on his or her person or in the vehicle a signed written
statement of the physician identifying the child and stating the grounds for
such waiver.
   (C)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in Neb. RS
60-610, shall not be subject to the requirements of division (A) above when
operating such authorized emergency vehicles pursuant to their employment.
   (D)   The Department of Motor Vehicles shall develop and implement an
ongoing public information and education program regarding the use of child
passenger restraint systems and seat safety belts.
(Ord. 371, passed 12-17-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,267
§ 71.11 TIRE REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS; PERMISSIVE USES.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle moved on any highway shall have
rubber on its entire traction surface at least one inch thick above the edge of
the flange of the entire periphery.
   (B)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any clock, stud, flange, cleat or spike, or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber, which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire, except that:
      (1)   This prohibition shall not apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter,
inclusive of the stud-casing, with an average protrusion beyond the tread
surface of not more than seven-sixty-fourths of an inch between November 1 and
April 1, except that school buses, mail carrier vehicles and emergency vehicles
shall be permitted to use metal or metal-type studs at any time during the
year;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the highway; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or
other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer:
         (a)   Having any metal tire in contact with the roadway; or
         (b)   Equipped with solid rubber tires.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) above shall not apply to farm vehicles having a
gross weight of 10,000 pounds or less or to implements of husbandry.
   (D)   The city may, in its discretion, issue special permits authorizing the
operation upon a highway of traction engines or tractors having movable tracks
with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable tracks or farm
tractors or other farm machinery.
(Neb. RS 60-6,250) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Rubber-tired cranes, see Neb. RS 60-6,288
§ 71.12 OVERCROWDING VEHICLE BODY.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there is
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere with
the driver's control over the driving mechanism of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 39-677) (Ord. 263, passed 7-12-1976) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** SPEED LIMITS ****
§ 71.25 BASIC RULE.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than
is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual
and potential hazards then existing.
   (B)   A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate speed when approaching
and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing, when approaching and
going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any
narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazards exist with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.26 NEAR SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing
premises on which school buildings are located and which are used for school
purposes, during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the opening or closing hours, to drive the vehicle at a rate of speed in
excess of 15 mph past the premises.
   (B)   The driver shall stop at all stop signs located at or near such school
premises, and it shall be unlawful for the driver to make a U-turn at any
intersection where such stop signs are located at or near such school premises.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   General prohibitions; exceptions
   
72.02   Schools, theaters
   
72.03   Obstructing street, intersection or entrance
   
72.04   Intersections
   
72.05   Alleys
   
72.06   Truck parking, loading and unloading
   
72.07   Display or repair of vehicle
   
72.08   Current registration
   
72.09   Time limits
   
72.10   Snow; weather emergencies; highway maintenance
   
72.11   Parallel, angle and center parking
   
72.12   Painting of curbs
   
72.13   Detached trucks, trailers and the like
Parking for Handicapped Persons
   
72.25   Designation of on-street parking spaces and access aisles; display of
permits
   
72.26   Designation of off-street parking stalls or spaces
   
72.27   Personal permit
   
72.28   Motor vehicle permit
   
72.29   Permit; prohibited issuance; duplicate permits
   
72.30   Period valid; renewal; fee
   
72.31   Permits nontransferable; violations; suspension
   
72.32   Removal of unauthorized vehicle; penalty
   
72.33   Citation issuance; complaint; trial; dismissal
Administration and Enforcement
   
72.45   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles; liability for costs
 
   
72.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 72.01 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park any vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb, or within 30 feet
of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
City Council indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure over a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad track; or
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or
other traffic control device located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station, and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance when such is properly signposted; or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as shall be
unlawful.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 SCHOOLS, THEATERS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, prohibit the parking or stopping,
except for loading or unloading of passengers or freight, of vehicles at the
curb on streets directly in front of any entrance to a school house, school
building or theater, and such curbs adjacent to the entrance of said school
house, school building or theater shall be painted red to indicate such
prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 72.05)
§ 72.03 OBSTRUCTING STREET, INTERSECTION OR ENTRANCE.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 INTERSECTIONS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or a traffic control
device, no person shall park a vehicle or leave a vehicle standing for any
purpose, except momentarily to load or discharge passengers, within 25 feet of
the intersection of curblines, or if none, then within 15 feet of the
intersection of property lines, or where the curblines are painted red or
another color specified by the City Council in order to indicate such
prohibition.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley, except for the
purpose of loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload,
which shall not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour.
      (2)   Every vehicle while loading or unloading in an alley shall be
parked in such manner as will cause the least obstruction possible to traffic
in the alley.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 TRUCK PARKING, LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall
length of more than 20 feet to park or stop such vehicle on a street within the
Business District except to load or unload when loading or unloading in an
alley is impossible, and then only for the period of time reasonably necessary
to load or unload.
   (B)   If the City Council provides truck parking areas adjoining or adjacent
to the Business District, all truck operators shall use such parking areas for
all parking purposes.
   (C)   Except in an area provided for by the City Council by resolution, it
shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck, including an oil tanker, to
park or stop for any period of time within the limits of any street outside the
Business District except for the purpose of loading or unloading the cargo
thereof in the ordinary course of business.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public
place within the city any vehicle displayed for sale.
   (B)   Except when necessary due to a breakdown or other emergency, no person
shall adjust or repair, or race the motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle
while standing on the highways of the city.
   (C)   No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.08 CURRENT REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the highways or other public
property any vehicle required to be registered by the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act, Neb. RS 60-301 et seq., that is not registered in accordance
with the Act.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.09 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours, except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
   (B)   If the City Council adopts a resolution entirely prohibiting, or
fixing a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any highway,
it is unlawful to park or stop any vehicle in such highway for a period of time
longer than fixed in the resolution.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.10 SNOW; WEATHER EMERGENCIES; HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, it is unlawful to park or
stand any vehicle on any highway in the city at any time within 12 hours after
a snowfall of three inches or more has occurred within a 24-hour period if the
snow has not been removed within that time.
   (B)   The Police Chief, the city police or any other designated person may
order any highway or portion thereof vacated for weather emergencies or highway
maintenance. Notice shall be given by personally notifying the owner or
operator of a vehicle parked on such highway or by posting appropriate signs
along the highway not less than four hours prior to the time that the vacation
order is to be effective. It is unlawful to park a vehicle on a highway or
portion thereof vacated in accordance with this division (B).
   (C)   A vehicle parked in violation of this section may be removed and
parked, under the supervision of the city police, to a suitable nearby location
without further notice to the owner or operator of such vehicle.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.11 PARALLEL, ANGLE AND CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway where parking is permitted shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the
right-hand curb or edge of such roadway. No vehicle shall be parked upon a
roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided by the City Council, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel
to the curb or edge of such roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic
movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway or its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or edge of such roadway.
   (C)   The City Council may permit angle or center parking on any roadway,
except that angle or center parking shall not be permitted on any federal-aid
highway or on any part of the state highway system unless the Director-State
Engineer has determined that such roadway is of sufficient width to permit
angle or center parking without interfering with the free movement of traffic.
   (D)   The City Council may prohibit or restrict stopping, standing or
parking on highways under its jurisdiction and erect and maintain proper and
adequate signs thereon. No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in
violation of the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167)
   (E)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within those stalls.
   (F)   Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.12 PAINTING OF CURBS.
   (A)   The curb space within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant
shall be painted to indicate that parking is prohibited in such area.
   (B)   If the City Council adopts a resolution regulating or prohibiting the
parking or stopping of vehicles at the curb on highways in front of certain
facilities or at certain locations, the curbs adjacent to any such facility or
location shall be painted in such manner as directed by the City Council to
indicate such regulation or prohibition.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Council or its agent to cause the
curb space to be painted and to keep the same painted as provided in this
chapter or as specified by the City Council. The marking or designating of
portions of highways where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited
shall be done only by the city through its proper officers, at the direction of
the City Council. No person shall paint the curb of any highway or in any
manner set aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in, any highway
or part thereof, except at such places where the parking of vehicles is
prohibited by the provisions of this chapter or by a resolution adopted by the
City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.13 DETACHED TRUCKS, TRAILERS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a truck trailer, utility
trailer, boat trailer, horse trailer, camping trailer or other trailers
designed to be pulled behind a motor vehicle, to park such trailer detached
from its motor vehicle on the streets in the business or residential district
of the city, except when such owner or operator is performing a service for an
adjacent or abutting property owner, and only then for a period of no longer
than eight hours; provided, the location of the detached trailer does not
impede the safe flow of traffic. A detached trailer belonging to a contractor
with a current building permit may be parked in an area where vehicles can
legally park on the street longer than eight hours as long as the contractor is
actively working on the property with the building permit and the location of
the detached trailer does not impede the safe flow of traffic. A placard issued
by the Building Inspection Department showing the address of the permit,
issuance date and expiration date shall be attached to the detached trailer
visible from the traffic side.
(Ord. 605-23, passed 10-23-2023) (Penalty, see §
10.99)
**** PARKING FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS ****
§ 72.25 DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES; DISPLAY OF
PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The governing body may designate parking spaces, including
access aisles, for the exclusive use of:
         (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113;
         (b)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
         (c)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the municipality, whose motor
vehicles display a permit; and
         (d)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality,
which display such permit.
      (2)   All such permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit from the
motor vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when there is
no rearview mirror.
   (B)   (1)   If the governing body so designates a parking space or access
aisle, it shall be indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to
and visible from each space or access aisle a sign as described in Neb. RS 18-
1737.
      (2)   In addition to such sign, the space or access aisle may also be
indicated by blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street
adjacent to the space or access aisle.
(Prior Code, § 72.30) (Ord. 301, passed 1-2-1979; Ord. 386, passed 4-26-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736
§ 72.26 DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING STALLS OR SPACES.
   (A)   The municipality and any person in lawful possession of any off-street
parking facility may designate stalls or spaces, including access aisles, in
such facility owned or operated by the municipality or person for the exclusive
use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-6,113;
      (2)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the municipality, whose motor
vehicles display a permit; and
      (3)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality, which
display such permit.
   (B)   Such designation shall be made by posting above-ground and immediately
adjacent to and visible from each stall or space, including access aisles, a
sign which is in conformance with the requirements in Neb. RS 18-1737.
(Prior Code, § 72.31) (Ord. 301, passed 1-2-1979; Ord. 386, passed 4-26-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 72.27 PERSONAL PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   The Municipal Clerk may take an application, on a form provided
by the Department of Motor Vehicles, from a handicapped or disabled person or
temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her parent, legal guardian
or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person
driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting such holder to park in
those spaces or access aisles provided for by this subchapter when the holder
of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is parked in such
spaces or access aisles.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the handicapped or disabled person or
temporarily handicapped or disabled person shall be considered the holder of
the permit.
   (B)   (1)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit
shall complete an application, shall provide proof of identity and shall submit
a completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification
and signed by a physician, physician assistant or advanced practice registered
nurse certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the definition of
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person.
      (2)   (a)   No applicant shall be required to provide his or her Social
Security number.
         (b)   In the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person, the
certifying physician, physician assistant or advanced practice registered nurse
shall indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (C)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.28, but not both.
   (D)   A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each
applicant. The Municipal Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles
the name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit
pursuant to this section.
   (E)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (F)   The Municipal Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of
any person making application contrary to the provisions of Neb. RS 60-331.01.
(Prior Code, § 72.32) (Ord. 301, passed 1-2-1979; Ord. 386, passed 4-26-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-3,113.02 and 60-331.01
§ 72.28 MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk shall take an application from any person for a
motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving
the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in those spaces
or access aisles provided for by this subchapter if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. Such parking permit shall be used
only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the
transportation of a handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped
or disabled person and such person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while
it is parked in such designated spaces or access aisles.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to the Municipal
Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to the
Municipal Clerk that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons. A copy of the completed application form shall be given to
each applicant.
   (C)   No more than one such permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.27, but not both.
   (D)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (E)   The Municipal Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles
the name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit
pursuant to this section.
   (F)   The Municipal Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of
any person making application contrary to Neb. RS 60-331.01.
(Prior Code, § 72.33) (Ord. 301, passed 1-2-1979; Ord. 386, passed 4-26-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-3,113 et seq. and 60-331.01
§ 72.29 PERMIT; PROHIBITED ISSUANCE; DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle and
such permit has been suspended pursuant to §
72.31. At the expiration of such suspension, a permit may be renewed in the
manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
   (B)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall be issued in the same
manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form need
not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the most
recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the Municipal
Clerk or the Department of Motor Vehicles. A duplicate permit shall be valid
for the remainder of the period for which the original permit was issued.
(Prior Code, § 72.34) (Ord. 386, passed 4-26-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.30 PERIOD VALID; RENEWAL; FEE.
   (A)   Permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking
authorized by this subchapter issued prior to August 1, 2005, shall be valid
for a period ending on September 30 of the third year after the date of
issuance and shall expire on that date. Permanently issued permits issued on or
after August 1, 2005, shall be valid for a period ending on the last day of the
month of the applicant’s birthday in the third year after issuance and shall
expire on that day.
   (B)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for temporarily
handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending not more
than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed one time for a
period not to exceed six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed
one time for a period not to exceed six months. For the renewal period, there
shall be submitted an additional application with proof of a handicap or
disability.
(Prior Code, § 72.35) (Ord. 386, passed 4-26-1993)
§ 72.31 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE; VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable and
shall be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for
which issued and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall
alter or reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter.
No person shall knowingly hold more than one permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit.
   (B)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued to him or her as a handicapped or disabled person shall display a
handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a space or access aisle
designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or disabled person.
   (C)   No person who is the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for the use of such person when transporting a handicapped or
disabled person shall display his or her handicapped or disabled parking permit
and park in a space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a
handicapped or disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is
actually in the vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has
left the vehicle while it was parked and will return to the vehicle before it
leaves the designated space or access aisle.
   (D)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for use when a vehicle is transporting a handicapped or disabled
person shall display a handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a
space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or
disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is actually in the
vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has left the vehicle
while it was parked and will return to the vehicle before it leaves the
designated space or access aisle.
(Prior Code, § 72.36) (Ord. 301, passed 1-2-1979; Ord. 386, passed 4-26-1993)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.32 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE; PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the municipal police and the municipality, if it
provides on-street parking or owns, operates or provides an off-street parking
facility, may cause the removal from a stall or space, including access aisles,
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons,
of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the distinguishing license
plates specified in this subchapter if there is posted aboveground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space, including access
aisles, a sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as
a tow-in zone.
   (B)   (1)   A person who parks a vehicle in any on-street parking space or
access aisle which has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for
the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking
space or access aisle in any off-street parking facility, without properly
displaying the proper permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom
or for whom, as the case may be, the license plate or permit is issued will not
enter or exit the vehicle while it is parked in the designated space or access
aisle shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction and shall be subject
to the penalties and procedures set forth in §
72.33. The display on a motor vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or
permit issued to a handicapped or disabled person by and under the duly
constituted authority of another state shall constitute a full and complete
defense in any action for a handicapped parking infraction.
      (2)   If the identity of the person who parked the vehicle in violation
of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such
violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalties and procedures
described in this section.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the
municipality shall not require the owner or person in lawful possession of such
facility to inform the municipality of a violation of this section prior to the
municipality issuing the violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(Prior Code, § 72.37) (Ord. 387, passed 4-26-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 72.33 CITATION ISSUANCE; COMPLAINT; TRIAL; DISMISSAL.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the City Council to exercise the authority to
issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
   (B)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court. Unless the person cited requests an earlier date,
the time of appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the
handicapped parking citation. One copy of the handicapped parking citation
shall be delivered to the person cited or attached to the offending motor
vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the County Attorney or other person authorized by law to issue a
complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a complaint charging
such person with a handicapped parking infraction, or such person shall be
released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped parking
infraction by reason of the failure of a vehicle to display a handicapped
parking permit issued pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113.03 or 60-3,113 et seq., the
complaint shall be dismissed if, within seven business days after the date of
issuance of the citation, the person cited files with the court the affidavit
provided for in Neb. RS 18-1741.03, signed by a peace officer, certifying that
the recipient is the lawful possessor in his or her own right of a handicapped
parking permit issued under Neb. RS 60-3,113.03 or 60-3,113 et seq. and that
the peace officer has personally viewed the permit.
   (E)   A person cited for a handicapped parking violation may waive his or
her right to trial.
   (F)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury.
(Prior Code, § 72.38) (Ord. 387, passed 4-26-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1741.01(2), 18-1741.04 and 18-1741.06
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 72.45 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the city and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed, or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior
to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled
to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §
72.31 shall constitute a handicapped parking infraction and shall be cause for
suspension of such permit for a period of six months and imposition of the
penalty provided for violation of this chapter. In addition, the trial court
shall impose a fine of not more than the amount set out by the Master Fee
Schedule, which may be waived by the court if, at the time of sentencing, all
handicapped parking permits issued to or in the possession of the offender are
returned to the court. At the expiration of such six-month period, a suspended
permit may be renewed in the manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 72.36) (Ord. 301, passed 1-2-1979; Ord. 386, passed 4-26-1993)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Bicycles; operation
   
73.02   Clinging to motor vehicles; bicycles, roller skates and the like
   
73.03   Motorcycles
   
73.04   Mopeds
   
73.05   Snowmobiles, mini-bikes and off-road recreation vehicles
   
73.06   All-terrain vehicles
   
73.07   Utility-transport vehicles and mini pickups
   
73.08   Golf car vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 BICYCLES; OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other public
highway of this municipality with another person on the handlebars or in any
position in front of the operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and public highways.
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be permitted on any street or other public highway
from one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise without a
headlight, visible under normal atmospheric conditions, from the front thereof
for not less than 500 feet indicating the approach or presence of the bicycle,
firmly attached to such bicycle and properly lighted, or without a yellow or
red light reflector attached to and visible 500 feet from the rear thereof.
   (E)   Every person riding or propelling a bicycle upon any street or other
public highway shall observe all traffic rules and regulations applicable
thereto and shall turn only at intersections, signal for all turns, ride at the
right-hand side of the street or highway, pass to the left when passing
overtaken vehicles and individuals that are slower moving and shall pass
vehicles to the right when meeting.
(Neb. RS 60-6,314 through 60-6,319) (Prior Code, § 73.01)
§ 73.02 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES; BICYCLES, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle or roller skates shall attach the same or
himself or herself to any moving vehicle upon any roadway, and it shall be
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to suffer or permit any person traveling
upon any bicycle or roller skates to cling to or attach himself or herself or
his or her bicycle, or roller skates, to such vehicle so driven and operated by
him or her.
(Neb. RS 60-6,316) (Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall ride a motorcycle upon the streets, alleys or highways
from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise, unless the
same shall be equipped with at least one, and not more than two headlights,
plainly visible from the front and with a light on the rear exhibiting a red
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions, from a distance of at least
500 feet to the rear thereof; provided, that said lamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of the statutes of the state.
   (B)   No person operating a motorcycle shall carry another person in front
of the operator.
(Neb. RS 60-6,219) (Prior Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 MOPEDS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a moped upon the streets, alleys or public
highways of the municipality unless such person has a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license or a valid school or learner’s permit.
   (B)   Any person who rides a moped upon a roadway shall have all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
motor vehicle hereunder and Neb. RS 60-601 through 60-602, and amendments
thereto, except for those provisions of such sections which by their nature can
have no application. Such regulations applicable to mopeds shall apply whenever
a moped shall be operated upon any street, alley or public highway within the
municipality or upon any path set aside by the Department of Roads or local
authority for the use of mopeds. Notwithstanding any established maximum speed
limits in excess of 25 mph, no person shall operate any moped at a speed in
excess of 30 mph.
   (C)   Any person who operates a moped shall ride only upon a permanent and
regular seat attached thereto and shall not carry any other person nor shall
any other person ride on a moped unless such moped is designed by the
manufacturer to carry more than one person.
   (D)   Any moped which carries a passenger shall be equipped with footrests
for such passenger. No person shall operate any moped with handlebars more than
15 inches above the mounting point of the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 73.04) (Ord. 317, passed 3-3-1980) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,310 through 60-6,312
§ 73.05 SNOWMOBILES, MINI-BIKES AND OFF-ROAD RECREATION VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a mini-bike, snowmobile
or off-road recreation vehicle of any and all types upon the street or highway
within the corporate limits of the municipality. These vehicles are primarily
designed for off-road use only.
   (B)   It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to allow a snowmobile
or off-road recreational vehicle of any and all types, either owned or operated
by him or her, to be operated:
      (1)   Within the congested area of the municipality unless weather
conditions are such that it provides the only practicable method of safe
vehicular travel, or said snowmobile or off-road recreational vehicle of any
and all types is engaged in responding to an emergency;
      (2)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under the
surrounding circumstances;
      (3)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger
person or property;
      (4)   Without lighted headlights and taillights;
      (5)   Upon any private lands without first having obtained permission of
the owner, lessee or operator of such lands; and
      (6)   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor, narcotics or
habit forming drugs.
   (C)   Mini-bikes and off-road recreational vehicles of any and all types
shall be exempt from the provisions during any public emergency of while being
used in parades by regularly organized units of any recognized charitable,
social, education’s or community service organization.
   (D)   Every snowmobile and off-road recreational vehicle of any and all
types shall be registered with the state, as required by law. All laws applying
to the operation of other motor vehicles shall apply except those relating to
required equipment and those which by their nature have no application.
   (E)   Off-road recreational vehicles of any and all types may be operated
only between the hours of sunrise and sunset and such operation is incidental
to the vehicle’s use for agricultural purposes and snow removal purposes.
   (F)   Off-road recreational vehicles of any and all types operated on the
roadway shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less
than five feet above ground and is attached to the rear of such vehicles. The
bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less than
30 square inches and shall be Day-Glo in color.
(Prior Code, § 73.05) (Ord. 437-02, passed 5-28-2002; Ord. 485-06, passed 8-28-
2006) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-678, 60-6,335, 60-6,337, 60-6,348, 60-
6,351 and 60-6,356
§ 73.06 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle, which:
         (a)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
         (b)   Has a dry weight of 600 pounds or less;
         (c)   Travels on three or more low-pressure tires;
         (d)   Is designed for operator use only and no passengers;
         (e)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator;
and
         (f)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering
control.
   (B)   Operation. Operation of all-terrain vehicles shall be permitted within
the city only if operators of such vehicles comply with the provisions as set
forth below:
   (C)   Street crossing. The crossing of a street, road or highway shall be
permitted only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 to the
direction of the street, road or highway and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street, road or highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided street, road or highway, the crossing is made
only at an intersection of such street, road or highway with another street,
road or highway; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
   (D)   Operation provisions. An all-terrain vehicle may be operated on a
street, road or highway when such operation occurs only between the hours of
sunrise and sunset. Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle on a street,
road or highway shall be at least 16 years of age and shall have a valid Class
O operator’s license or a farm permit, as provided in Neb. RS 60-4,126, and
shall not operate such vehicle at a speed in excess of 30 mph. Said vehicle
shall be covered by a policy of liability insurance in minimum amounts as
required by the laws of the state as shall be in effect from time to time. When
operated on a street, road or highway, the headlight and taillight of the
vehicle shall be on and the vehicle shall be equipped with a bicycle safety
flag attached to the rear of such vehicle, extending not less than five feet
above the ground. The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an
area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be in a Day-Glo color.
   (E)   Registration. The owner of each all-terrain vehicle to be operated
within the city limits of the city under the provisions of this section shall
be required to pay to the city an amount set out by the Master Fee Schedule to
register said vehicle. Each registered vehicle will be issued a permit number
for identification purposes. Said number shall be of a size and shape as
determined by the City Council and shall be displayed prominently on the left
rear fender of said vehicle. Said registration shall be revoked for violation
of the terms of this section under the provisions set out in §
73.99.
   (F)   Parade exception. All-terrain vehicles may be operated on streets,
roads or highways in parades, which have been authorized by the state or the
city.
   (G)   Headlights. Every all-terrain vehicle shall display a lighted
headlight and taillight during the period of time from one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise and at any time when visibility is
reduced due to insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions.
   (H)   Equipment, requirement. Every all-terrain vehicle shall be equipped
with:
      (1)   A brake system maintained in good operational condition;
      (2)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition; and
      (3)   A U.S. Forest Service qualified spark arrester.
   (I)   Prohibitions. No person shall:
      (1)   Equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle with a cutout,
bypass or similar device;
      (2)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle with an exhaust system so modified;
or
      (3)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle with the spark arrester removed or
modified except for use in closed-course competition events.
   (J)   Competition. All-terrain vehicles participating in competitive events
may be exempted from the provisions of this section if approved by the State
Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (K)   Accident report. If an accident results in the death of any person or
in the injury of any person requiring treatment by a physician, the operator of
each all-terrain vehicle involved in the accident shall give notice of the
accident in the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-699.
(Ord. 500-09, passed 3- -2009)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,356 through 60-6,361
§ 73.07 UTILITY-TRANSPORT VEHICLES AND MINI PICKUPS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ORIGINAL MANUFACTURER. A business enterprise engaged in the mass
production of utility-transport vehicles and/or mini pickups for commercial and
industrial use purposes and specifically excludes custom-made or modified
vehicles produced by individuals for their own purposes and use.
      STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard or way, which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
      UTILITY-TRANSPORT VEHICLE AND MINI PICKUPS. Any motorized off-highway
vehicle which:
         (a)   Is 74 inches or less in width;
         (b)   Has a dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less;
         (c)   Travels on three or more tires;
         (d)   Is specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the
operator and no more than three passengers, and shall include properly equipped
golf carts;
         (e)   Has a steering assembly for steering control; and
         (f)   Is equipped with an operational brake light.
   (B)   Operation.
      (1)   A utility-transport vehicle and mini pickup may be operated on
streets and highways within the corporate limits of the city only if the
operator and the vehicle comply with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   A utility-transport vehicle and mini pickup may be operated only
between the hours of sunrise and sunset, unless equipped with operable snow
plow blade and apparatus, and shall not be operated at a speed in excess of the
posted speed limit and in no event in excess of 30 mph. When operating a
utility-transport vehicle or mini pickup as authorized in division (B)(1)
above, the following requirements shall be adhered to:
         (a)   The headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be fully
operable and visible;
         (b)   Vehicle shall be equipped with electric strobe/flashing beacon
mounted on the top of the vehicle or a bicycle safety flag which extends not
less than five feet above ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. The
bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less than
30 square inches and shall be Day-Glo in color; and
         (c)   Vehicle shall have an operational and visual brake light system.
      (3)   Any person operating a utility-transport vehicle or mini pickup as
authorized in division (B)(2) above shall:
         (a)   Have a valid Class O operator’s license or a farm permit, as
provided in Neb. RS 60-4,126; and
         (b)   Have liability insurance coverage for the utility-transport
vehicle or mini pickup while operating on a street or highway. The person
operating the utility-transport vehicle or mini pickup shall provide proof of
such insurance coverage to any peace officer requesting such proof within five
days of such a request.
      (4)   A utility-transport vehicle or mini pickup shall not be operated on
any controlled access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and the
crossing of any controlled access highway with more than two marked traffic
lanes shall not be permitted. For purposes of this section turn lanes are
deemed to be auxiliary lanes and not traffic lanes. The crossing of a highway
shall be permitted by a utility-transport vehicle or mini pickup without
complying with divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) above only if:
         (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees
to the direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing;
         (b)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
         (c)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic
that constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
         (d)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
         (e)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
   (C)   Registration. The owner of each utility-transport vehicle or mini
pickup to be operated within the city limits of the city under the provisions
of this section shall be required to pay to the city an amount set out by the
Master Fee Schedule to register said vehicle. Each registered vehicle will be
issued a permit number for identification purposes. Said number shall be of a
size and shape as determined by the City Council and shall be displayed
prominently on the left rear fender of said vehicle. Said registration shall be
revoked for violation of the terms of this section under the provisions set out
in §
73.99.
   (D)   Parade exception. Utility-transport vehicles and mini pickups may be
operated on streets, roads or highways in parades, which have been authorized
by the state or the city.
   (E)   Headlights. Every utility-transport vehicle and mini pickup shall
display a lighted headlight and taillight during the period of time from one-
half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise and at any time when
visibility is reduced due to insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric
conditions.
   (F)   Equipment, requirement. Every utility-transport vehicle and mini
pickup shall be equipped with:
      (1)   A brake system maintained in good operational condition;
      (2)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition; and
      (3)   A U.S. Forest Service qualified spark arrester.
   (G)   Prohibitions. No person shall:
      (1)   Equip the exhaust system of a utility-transport vehicle or mini
pickup with a cutout, bypass or similar device;
      (2)   Operate a utility-transport vehicle or mini pickup with an exhaust
system so modified; or
      (3)   Operate a utility-transport vehicle or mini pickup with the spark
arrester removed or modified except for use in closed-course competition
events.
   (H)   Competition. Utility-transport vehicles or mini pickups participating
in competitive events may be exempted from the provisions of this section if
approved by the State Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (I)   Accident report. If an accident results in the death of any person or
in the injury of any person requiring treatment by a physician, the operator of
each utility-transport vehicle or mini pickup involved in the accident shall
give notice of the accident in the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-699.
(Ord. 505-09, passed 9-28-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-624 and 60-6,355 through 60-6,361
§ 73.08 GOLF CAR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GOLF CAR VEHICLE. A vehicle that has at least four wheels, has a maximum
level ground speed of less than 20 mph, has a maximum payload capacity of 1,200
pounds, has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds, has a maximum
passenger capacity of not more than four persons, is designed and manufactured
for operation on a golf course for sporting and recreational purposes and is
not being operated within the boundaries of a golf course.
      ROAD. A public way for the purposes of vehicular travel, including the
entire area within the right-of-way.
      STREET. A public way for the purposes of vehicular travel in the city and
includes the entire area within the right-of-way.
   (B)   Operation.
      (1)   A golf car vehicle may be operated on streets within the corporate
limits of the city if the operation is between sunrise and sunset and on
streets with a posted speed limit of 35 mph or less. When operating a golf car
vehicle as authorized under this division (B)(1), the operator shall not
operate such vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 mph. A golf car vehicle shall
not be operated at any time on any state or federal highway but may be operated
upon such a highway in order to cross a portion of the highway system which
intersects a street as directed in division (B)(3) below.
      (2)   Any person operating a golf car vehicle as authorized herein shall
have a valid Class O operator’s license and the owner of the golf car vehicle
shall have liability insurance coverage for the vehicle. The person operating
the vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any peace officer
requesting such proof within five days after such a request. The liability
insurance coverage shall be subject to limits, exclusive of interest and costs,
as follows: $25,000 because of bodily injury to or death of one person in any
one accident and, subject to such limit for one person, $50,000 because of
bodily injury to or death of two or more persons in any one accident and
$25,000 because of injury to or destruction of property of others in any one
accident, or in other amounts as set out in the Master Fee Schedule.
      (3)   The crossing of a highway shall be permitted by a golf car vehicle
only if:
         (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
         (b)   The golf car vehicle is brought to a complete stop before
crossing the shoulder or roadway of the highway;
         (c)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic
that constitutes an immediate potential hazard; and
         (d)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with a street or road, as applicable.
   (C)   Accident report. If an accident results in the death of any person or
in the injury of any person requiring treatment by a physician, the operator of
such golf car involved in the accident shall give notice of the accident in the
same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-699.
(Ord. 546-15, passed 12-21-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-622.01, 60-6,361 and 60-6,381
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating the terms of §
73.06 shall be guilty of an offense, fined in a sum of not more than $500 and
shall have the registration revoked as to the vehicle involved in said offense
as follows.
         (a)   For the first offense, use of said vehicle shall be prohibited
within the city for a period of six months.
         (b)   For the second offense, use of said vehicle shall be prohibited
within the city for a period of one year.
         (c)   For the third offense, use of said vehicle shall be permanently
prohibited within the city.
      (2)   At the expiration of each period of revocation as set out in
divisions (B)(1)(a) and (B)(1)(b) above, the owner of said vehicle may make
application to the City Council for reinstatement of the privilege to operate
said vehicle within the city according to the provisions of §
73.06(E).
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating the terms of §
73.07 shall be guilty of an offense, fined in a sum of not more than the amount
set out in the Master Fee Schedule and shall have the registration revoked as
to the vehicle involved in said offense as follows.
         (a)   For the first offense, use of said vehicle shall be prohibited
within the city for a period of six months.
         (b)   For the second offense, use of said vehicle shall be prohibited
within the city for a period of one year.
         (c)   For the third offense, use of said vehicle shall be permanently
prohibited within the city.
      (2)   At the expiration of each period of revocation as set out in
divisions (C)(1)(a) and (C)(1)(b) above, the owner of said vehicle may make
application to the City Council for reinstatement of the privilege to operate
said vehicle within the city according to the provisions of §
73.07(C).
   (D)   Any person violating the terms of §
73.08 shall be guilty of a Class IV misdemeanor as the same is defined by state
law.
(Ord. 500-09, passed 3- -2009; Ord. 505-09, passed 9-28-2009; Ord. 546-15,
passed 12-21-2015)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   U-turns; restricted streets
   
II.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. U-TURNS; RESTRICTED STREETS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction,
except at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in
the opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic signal is in
operation, except it shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle to
make a U-turn at any of the following intersections.
 
Street      Intersection
Main Street Intersection with Pearl Street
           Intersection with Howard Street
           Intersection with Baker Street
           Intersection with Bridge Street
           Intersection with Pebble Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Sched. I) (Ord. 483-06, passed 8-28-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley or other
place within the corporate limits at a rate of speed greater than 25 mph in a
Residential District.
   (B)   No person shall drive a vehicle in any portion of the Business
District at a speed greater than 20 mph, excepting, however, the following.
 
Street      Location                                                Speed Limit
Highway 275 For 750 feet on each side of the Horton Street and Main 35 mph
            Street intersection, 1,500 feet total
           Rest of the street within the corporate limits          40 mph
Main Street From Baker St. to Pearl St.                             15 mph
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Sched. II) (Ord. 330, passed 1-3-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,186 and 60-6,190
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
   
91.   CEMETERY
   
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
   
93.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
   
94.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Parking and Recreational Facilities
   
90.01   Operation and funding
   
90.02   Injury to property
   
90.03   Parks after hours
Library
   
90.15   Funding
   
90.16   Library Board; general powers and duties
   
90.17   Cost of use
   
90.18   Discrimination prohibited
   
90.19   Improper book removal
Auditorium
   
90.30   Ownership
   
90.31   Rentals
   
90.32   Rules and regulations
   
90.33   Auditorium Board
Municipal Swimming Pool
   
90.45   Operation and funding
   
90.46   Admission charge
   
90.47   Rentals
   
90.48   Rules and regulations
 
   
90.99   Penalty
**** PARKING AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES ****
§ 90.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   If the city has already acquired or hereafter acquires land for park
purposes or recreational facilities or has already built or hereafter builds
swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, the Mayor and City Council may
each year make and levy a tax upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property in the city. The levy shall be collected and put into the City
Treasury and shall constitute the Park and Recreation Fund of the city. The
funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements, for laying out,
improving and beautifying such parks, for maintaining, improving, managing and
beautifying such swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, and for the
payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the performance of such
labor.
(Neb. RS 17-951)
   (B)   If the Mayor and City Council create a Board of Park Commissioners or
Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners, when such Board has been appointed
and qualified, all accounts against the Park Fund or Park and Recreation Fund
shall be audited by the Board, and warrants against the fund shall be drawn by
the Chairperson of the Board, and warrants so drawn shall be paid by the City
Treasurer out of the fund.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (C)   (1)   Whether the title to real estate for parks, public grounds,
swimming pools or dams, either for recreational or conservational purposes,
shall be acquired by gift, devise or purchase as provided in Neb. RS 17-948,
the jurisdiction of the City Council or Park Board shall at once be extended
over such real estate; and the City Council or Park Board shall have the power
to enact bylaws, rules or ordinances for the protection and preservation of any
real estate acquired, and to provide rules and regulations for the closing of
the park or swimming pool, in whole or in part, to the general public, and
charge admission thereto during such closing, either by the city or by any
person, persons or corporation leasing the same. They may provide suitable
penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules or ordinances; and the police
power of the city shall be at once extended over the same.
(Neb. RS 17-949)
      (2)   The Park Board shall not enter into a contract of any nature that
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the City Council prior to the contractual agreement.
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
   Parks and recreational facilities generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-
952
§ 90.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub in any city park or recreational
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table or any other property of any city park or recreational area. No
person shall commit any waste on or litter the city parks or other public
grounds.
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 90.03 PARKS AFTER HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in any city park, ball field or
outdoor public facility one hour after sunset or before sunrise, unless
specifically approved by vote of the City Council, except as follows:
   (A)   For any scheduled organized sporting event or practice taking place,
starting one hour from the conclusion of said sporting event or practice; or
   (B)   Starting one hour after the scheduled closing time for activities at
any outdoor public facility. For purposes of this section, three examples are
hours of operation at the city swimming pool and either live music performances
or Haze Days events in the city park.
(Ord. 533-13, passed 10-28-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
**** LIBRARY ****
§ 90.15 FUNDING.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council has established a public library free of
charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city or contracted for the use of
a public library already established, the Council may levy a tax of not more
than $0.105 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the taxable property in
the city, or other such amount set out in the Master Fee Schedule, annually to
be levied and collected in like manner as other taxes in the city. The levy
shall be subject to Neb. RS 77-3442 and 77-3443. The amount collected from such
levy shall be known as the Library Fund.
(Neb. RS 51-201)
      (2)   The Fund shall also include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests or other valuable income-producing property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the public library.
   (B)   All taxes levied or collected and all funds donated or in any way
acquired for the erection, maintenance or support of the public library shall
be kept for the use of the library separate and apart from all other funds of
the city, shall be drawn upon and paid out by the City Treasurer upon vouchers
signed by the president of the Library Board and authenticated by the Secretary
of the Board, and shall not be used or disbursed for any other purpose or in
any other manner. The city may establish a public library sinking fund for
major capital expenditures.
(Neb. RS 51-209)
   (C)   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over at least
monthly by the Librarian to the City Treasurer along with a report of the
sources of the revenue.
§ 90.16 LIBRARY BOARD; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt such bylaws,
rules and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the
library and reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with Neb.
RS 51-201 through 51-219.
(Neb. RS 51-205)
   (B)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all
money collected or donated to the credit of the Library Fund, of the renting
and construction of any library building, and the supervision, care and custody
of the grounds, rooms or buildings constructed, leased or set apart for that
purpose.
(Neb. RS 51-207)
   (C)   The Library Board may erect, lease or occupy an appropriate building
for the use of such a library, and appoint a suitable librarian and assistants,
fix the compensation of such appointees, and remove such appointees at the
pleasure of the Board. The governing body of the city shall approve any
personnel administrative or compensation policy or procedure before the
implementation of such policy or procedure by the Library Board.
   (D)   The Library Board may establish rules and regulations for the
government of the library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and
to maintain its usefulness and efficiency. The Library Board may fix and
impose, by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for trespasses upon or
injury to the library grounds, rooms, books or other property, for failure to
return any book or for violation of any bylaw, rule or regulation. The Board
shall have and exercise such power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit
and intent of Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219 in establishing and maintaining the
library and reading room.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 90.17 COST OF USE.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the library and
reading room shall be free of charge for the use of the inhabitants of the
city, subject always to such reasonable regulations as the Library Board may
adopt to render the library of the greatest use to the inhabitants.
      (2)   The Library Board may exclude from the use of the library and
reading rooms any person who willfully violates or refuses to comply with the
rules and regulations established for the government thereof.
(Neb. RS 51-212)
   (B)   (1)   The public library shall make its basic services available
without charge to all residents of the city.
      (2)   The Board may fix and impose reasonable fees, not to exceed the
library’s actual cost, for nonbasic services.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, free loan of circulating
print and nonprint materials from the local collection and general reference
and information services.
      NONBASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, the use of:
         (a)   Photocopying equipment;
         (b)   Telephones, facsimile equipment and other telecommunications
equipment;
         (c)   Media equipment;
         (d)   Personal computers; and
         (e)   Videocassette recording and playing equipment.
(Neb. RS 51-201.01)
§ 90.18 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No library service shall be denied to any person because of race, sex,
religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap or marital
status.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 90.19 IMPROPER BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book from the public library without the consent
of the Librarian or an authorized employee of the library. Any person removing
a book from the library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be
guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
90.99
**** AUDITORIUM ****
§ 90.30 OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   The municipality owns and manages the municipal auditorium through the
Municipal Clerk. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, maintenance and improvements on the municipal auditorium may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
taxable value of all taxable property within the municipality.
   (B)   The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Auditorium Fund and
shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests or other
valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any source for
the purpose of endowing the municipal auditorium. The Auditorium Fund shall, at
all times, be in the custody of the Municipal Clerk.
   (C)   The Municipal Clerk shall have the power to hire and supervise such
employees as it may deem necessary and shall pass such rules and regulations
for the operation of the auditorium as may be proper for its efficient
management.
   (D)   All actions by the Municipal Clerk shall be under the supervision and
control of the City Council, and in the event of vacancy in the office of
Municipal Clerk, the City Council shall perform the duties thereof.
(Prior Code, § 90.25)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953 through 17-955
§ 90.31 RENTALS.
   The Municipal Clerk may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved
in maintaining, improving, managing and beautifying the auditorium, make a
reasonable rental charge for the use by any person or organization of the
auditorium. The Municipal Clerk shall prescribe rules and regulations for such
rentals subject to the review of the City Council. Rental rates may be
structured for classes of persons and organizations in a reasonable manner,
provided that nothing in this section shall be construed to permit or allow
discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, religion, national origin or
ancestry in the classification of persons and organizations for rental
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 90.26)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953 and 20-132
§ 90.32 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk shall have the power and authority to prescribe
rules and regulations for the protection of the municipal auditorium and the
safety of those using the auditorium facilities. It may provide suitable
penalties for the violation of such rules and regulations subject to the
supervision and review of the City Council.
   (B)   All damage suffered by the auditorium during any rental shall be
assessed against the person or organization responsible for the rental thereof
or shall be deducted from the damage deposit which the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer may, in his or her discretion, have required prior to the rental.
(Prior Code, § 90.27)
§ 90.33 AUDITORIUM BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   The governing body shall appoint the Auditorium Board. The Board
shall be composed of five members who shall be residents of the city, and
members shall serve a five-year term, with one member being appointed or
reappointed in January of each year.
      (2)   The Board shall serve without compensation and may be required, in
the discretion of the governing body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution
of the governing body and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their
duties.
   (B)   At the Board’s first meeting in January of each year, the Board shall
organize by selecting from its number a Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be
the duty of the Chairperson to preside at the meetings of the Board. It shall
be the duty of the secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records
of all meetings, and to file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
   (C)   A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council
may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or
any two of the Board members.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Board to have general charge of the City
Auditorium and to establish appropriate rules and regulations for the
management, operation, care, maintenance and use of the same. The Board shall
have supervisory authority over all employees of the auditorium. All actions of
the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision of the governing body.
The Board shall make a report in writing to the governing body of its acts and
doings, monthly.
   (E)   No member of the governing body shall serve as a member of the
Auditorium Board while serving a term of office as a member of the governing
body. No member of the Auditorium Authority shall serve in the capacity of both
Chairperson and the Secretary of the Board.
(Ord. 341, passed 12-3-1984)
**** MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL ****
§ 90.45 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and manages the municipal swimming pool.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, maintenance and improvements of the swimming pool may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
taxable value of all taxable property within the municipality.
      (2)   The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool Fund
and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests or other
valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any source for
the purpose of endowing the swimming pool. The Swimming Pool Fund shall, at all
times, be in the custody of the Municipal Clerk.
   (C)   (1)   The Pool Manager shall manage the swimming pool. The Pool
Manager shall have the power and authority to hire and supervise any such
employees as he or she may deem necessary and shall pass such rules and
regulations for the operation of the swimming pool as may be proper for its
efficient operation.
      (2)   All actions by the Pool Manager shall be under the supervision and
control of the Mayor and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 90.40)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-952
§ 90.46 ADMISSION CHARGE.
   (A)   The City Council may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses
involved in maintaining, improving, managing and beautifying the swimming pool,
make a reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the municipal
swimming pool.
   (B)   The charges shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer and shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal
swimming pool for public inspection.
   (C)   Such rates may be structured for classes of persons in a reasonable
manner, provided that nothing in this section shall be construed to permit or
allow discrimination on the basis of race, sex, religion, color, national
origin or ancestry in the classification of persons for admission charges.
(Prior Code, § 90.41)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949 and 20-132
§ 90.47 RENTALS.
   The Pool Manager shall have the authority to rent the municipal swimming
pool to such organizations and other persons as it may in its discretion see
fit, subject to the review of the City Council. The Pool Manager shall
prescribe rules and regulations for such rentals and shall require an
appropriate number of qualified lifeguards to be in attendance during the
rental period. Such fees and other costs shall be on file at the office of the
Municipal Clerk and posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal swimming
pool.
(Prior Code, § 90.42)
§ 90.48 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Pool Manager shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws, rules
and regulations for the protection of those using the swimming pool and for the
efficient management thereof. He or she may provide suitable penalties for the
violation of such bylaws, rules and regulations subject to the review and
supervision of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 90.43)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found violating §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine as set
out in the Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 533-13, passed 10-28-2013)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERY
Section
   
91.01   Operation and funding
   
91.02   Sexton
   
91.03   Conveyance of lots
   
91.04   Lot transfers
   
91.05   Perpetual care
   
91.06   Burial permit
   
91.07   Shrubs and trees
   
91.08   Monuments
   
91.09   Grave depth
   
91.10   Destruction of property
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and manages the municipal cemetery through the
Cemetery Board.
   (B)   The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care,
management, maintenance and beautification of the cemetery may each year levy a
tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the taxable
value of all taxable property within the municipality that is subject to
taxation for general purposes. The revenue from said tax shall be known as the
Cemetery Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests, money, stocks, bonds or other valuable income-producing personal
property and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the
cemetery. The Cemetery Fund shall, at all times, be in the custody of the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer.
   (C)   The Board shall have the power and authority to hire and supervise
such employees as it may deem necessary and to pass such rules and regulations
for the operation of the cemetery as may be proper for its efficient operation.
All actions by the Board shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 91.01)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 12-401 through 12-403
§ 91.02 SEXTON.
   The Cemetery Board, subject to the approval of the City Council, shall have
the authority to appoint a Sexton who shall perform such duties and make such
reports as the Cemetery Board shall direct and to employ such labor and
assistants as the Cemetery Board may deem necessary from persons not belonging
to the Board. It shall be the duty of the Sexton, upon receiving a burial
permit, to locate and direct the party named in the permit to the lot mentioned
therein and to dig and excavate, or cause the same to be dug or excavated, in
compliance with the rules and regulations of the Cemetery Board.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 12-403
§ 91.03 CONVEYANCE OF LOTS.
   The Mayor and City Council may convey cemetery lots by certificate signed by
the Mayor, and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer under the
municipal seal, specifying that the person to whom the same is issued is the
owner of the lot described therein by number for the purpose of interment. The
certificate shall give a right in fee simple to the proprietor, his or her
heirs and assigns. The certificate shall then be recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 17-941) (Prior Code, § 91.03)
§ 91.04 LOT TRANSFERS.
   Any person who wishes to transfer a certificate may do so by surrendering
the original certificate to the Cemetery Secretary, who shall issue a new
certificate upon the receipt of the recording fee set by resolution of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 91.04)
§ 91.05 PERPETUAL CARE.
   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall allocate and set apart a percentage of
the entire amount paid for lots or burial spaces if the lots or burial spaces
are to be endowed with perpetual care. The fund shall be permanent in nature,
and as it accumulates shall be invested in such interest bearing securities as
are authorized by state law. The income earned thereon shall be used solely for
the purposes of perpetual care for the cemetery lots. Any lot owner who shall
not have, prior to the purchase of his or her lot, endowed his or her holdings
with perpetual care, may do so by paying to the Secretary of the Cemetery Board
such sum of money as the City Council may in each case fix and determine.
Thereafter, the owner shall not be liable for the payment of an annual
maintenance assessment.
(Prior Code, § 91.05)
§ 91.06 BURIAL PERMIT.
   The interment of any body shall be performed under the direct supervision of
a licensed funeral director, except cremation. In the event that the removal of
the body of any deceased person is requested, the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer
shall issue no permit until the applicant shall have first complied with the
laws of the state with respect to such disinterment.
(Prior Code, § 91.06) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 71-605
§ 91.07 SHRUBS AND TREES.
   It shall be unlawful, without the written permission of the Cemetery Board,
to plant, maintain or suffer to remain on any cemetery lot a shrub or tree
attaining a height of more than four feet.
(Prior Code, § 91.07) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 MONUMENTS.
   Persons desiring to erect monuments, tombstones or other structures shall
first procure a permit from the Cemetery Board. The Cemetery Board shall review
all such applications and shall give written approval for any permit.
(Prior Code, § 91.08) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 GRAVE DEPTH.
   Graves shall not be less than six feet deep; provided, that nothing herein
shall be construed to prohibit the use of mausoleums or other recognized
methods of interring deceased persons if such a burial procedure is approved by
the Cemetery Board.
(Prior Code, § 91.09)
§ 91.10 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   Any person who shall willfully destroy, mutilate, deface, injure or remove
any tomb, monument or gravestone placed in the cemetery, or any fence, railing
or other work for the protection or ornamentation of the cemetery, or who shall
willfully destroy, cut, break or injure any tree, shrub or plant shall be
deemed to be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.10) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, unless
otherwise specifically provided, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding the amount set out
in the Master Fee Schedule. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.99)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-943
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Poisonous and Flammable Gases; Explosives
   
92.01   Petroleum gas
   
92.02   Poisonous and flammable gases
   
92.03   Bullets
   
92.04   Blasting permit
   
92.05   Transportation
Fire Prevention
   
92.20   Repair required
   
92.21   Open burning ban
   
92.22   Outdoor fire pits, fireplaces, chimineas and other fire-containing
units
Fireworks
   
92.35   Sale
   
92.36   Firecrackers
 
   
92.99   Penalty
**** POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES; EXPLOSIVES ****
§ 92.01 PETROLEUM GAS.
   Any person desiring to store or keep in his or her possession liquefied
petroleum gas shall place the containers outside of buildings on nonflammable
docks or platforms, and no such container shall, at any time, be stored within
a building of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549
§ 92.02 POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to store or keep in the
municipality, for any period of time, any form of poisonous or flammable gas or
liquefied petroleum gas, or add to, enlarge or replace any facility used for
the storage of such gases, must first get permission from the City Council. The
City Council shall require the name of the gas, the place of storage and the
amount of gas stored. If permission is granted, the City Council shall
prescribe such rules, regulations and precautionary actions as it may deem
necessary. Permit requirements for the initial construction or location of
storage facilities shall not apply to those facilities in existence on the
effective date of this section; provided, that any such present use that is
discontinued for a period of 60 days shall not be revived without a permit. The
provisions of this section shall be controlling throughout the municipality and
throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 435-01, passed 12-18-2001) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-1001 and 18-1720
§ 92.03 BULLETS.
   Cartridges, shells and percussions caps shall be kept in their original
containers away from flame, flammable materials and high explosives.
(Prior Code, § 92.03)
§ 92.04 BLASTING PERMIT.
   In addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department, pursuant to Neb. RS
28-1233(3), any person desiring to discharge explosive materials within the
municipality shall secure a permit from the City Council and shall discharge
such explosive materials in conformance with the conditions specified in the
permit. In no case shall any person perform blasting operations unless
operating under the direct supervision of a person in possession of a valid
user’s permit issued by the State Patrol.
(Prior Code, § 92.04)
§ 92.05 TRANSPORTATION.
   Any person wishing to transport high explosives in the municipality shall
first acquire a permit from the City Council and shall take such precautions
and use such route as it may prescribe. Nothing herein shall be construed to
apply to the county police or any of the armed services of the United States.
No vehicle transporting explosives shall make an unscheduled stop for longer
than five minutes within the municipality, and in the event of mechanical
failure, immediate notice of such breakdown shall be given the Police
Department, who shall then prescribe precautions as may be necessary to protect
the residents of the municipality and a reasonable time for removal of the
vehicle from the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 92.05)
**** FIRE PREVENTION ****
§ 92.20 REPAIR REQUIRED.
   (A)   In the event that a building within the fire limits becomes damaged to
the extent of less than 50% of its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall
be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant to remove or repair the building
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a building to stand in
such damaged or decayed condition. Any such building shall be removed or
repaired within 30 days after receiving notice to do so by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 92.15) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.21 OPEN BURNING BAN.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The Fire Chief of the Municipal Fire Department or his or her designee
may waive an open burning ban under division (A) above for an area under his or
her jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting
permission to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief or his
or her designee to a person desiring to conduct open burning shall be in
writing, signed by the Fire Chief or his or her designee and on a form provided
by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Municipal Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open
burning ban in his or her jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the
Chief or his or her designee. Anyone burning in such jurisdiction when the open
burning ban has been waived shall notify the Fire Department of his or her
intention to burn.
   (D)   The Municipal Fire Chief may adopt and promulgate rules and
regulations listing the conditions acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct
open burning under division (B) above.
   (E)   (1)   The Municipal Fire Department may charge a fee not to exceed the
amount set out in the Master Fee Schedule for each such permit issued. This fee
shall be remitted to the City Council for inclusion in the general funds
allocated to the Fire Department.
      (2)   Such funds shall not reduce the tax requirements for the Fire
Department.
      (3)   No such fee shall be collected from any state or political
subdivision to which such a permit is issued to conduct open burning under
division (B) above in the course of such state’s or political subdivision’s
official duties.
(Prior Code, § 92.16)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
§ 92.22 OUTDOOR FIRE PITS, FIREPLACES, CHIMINEAS AND OTHER FIRE-CONTAINING
UNITS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHIMINEAS. Outdoor patio fireplaces, usually made from clay, intended to
confine and control outdoor wood fires.
      FIRE PITS. Pits constructed of steel, concrete and/or stone, and
constructed above ground with a heavy steel screen cover.
      IN-GROUND FIRE PITS. Fire pits usually constructed of steel, concrete
and/or stone, constructed partially below grade in a permanent, non-portable
construction.
      OUTDOOR FIREPLACES. Includes fire pits, portable fire pits, in-ground
fire pits and chimineas. These residential OUTDOOR FIREPLACES use wood as a
fuel and are used for containing recreational fires located at a private
residence for the purpose of outdoor cooking and personal enjoyment. OUTDOOR
FIREPLACES do not include barbeque grills that use propane or charcoal as a
fuel and are used primarily for outdoor cooking.
      PORTABLE FIRE PITS. Commercially designed and intended to confine and
control outdoor wood fires.
   (B)   All outdoor fireplaces shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Clearances. A minimum 15-foot clearance shall be maintained between
the outdoor fireplace and property lines and combustible structure or materials
such as walls, roofs, fences, decks, wood piles and other combustible material.
      (2)   Construction. Outdoor fireplaces shall be constructed of concrete
or approved non-combustible materials. Not permitted are drums, barrels, half-
barrels or similarly constructed devices.
      (3)   Safe digging. Prior to construction of in-ground fire pits,
underground utilities must be located by calling 811, Diggers Hotline. Proof of
such location and construction shall be provided to the City Utility
Superintendent, Building Inspector and the City Fire Chief.
      (4)   Size. The fuel area for a fire pit shall not be larger than three
feet in diameter and not more than three feet in height.
      (5)   Location. Portable fire pits and chimineas shall be placed on a
stable, non-combustible surface such as a concrete pad and only at grade level
and shall not be located on any combustible balcony or deck nor under any
combustible balcony or any overhanging portion of a structure. In-ground fire
pits will be located ten feet from any gas line private or city owned.
      (6)   Type of materials being burnt. Materials allowed by this section
shall be limited to untreated wood or approved fireplace starter logs.
Petroleum products, rubbish, grass, leaves, cardboard, plastics, rubber or any
material that may flow out of the containment or cause excessive heat, smoke or
offensive smell shall not be permitted.
      (7)   Amount of materials being burnt. Users must:
         (a)   Limit the amount of material being burnt to ensure the flames
are confined inside the fuel area of the outdoor fireplace and the flames do
not extend six feet above the pit or into the chimney; and
         (b)   Follow the manufacturer’s recommendation on the maximum amount
of fuel to be used at one time with the spark guard in place.
      (8)   Supervision. Every outdoor fireplace shall be under constant
supervision by at least one responsible person age 18 or older from the
ignition of the fire until the fire is completely extinguished and embers are
cooled so as to prohibit the fire from rekindling.
      (9)   Provisions for protection. A garden hose connected to a water
supply or other approved fire extinguishing equipment shall be readily
available for use.
      (10)   Weather conditions. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be operated when
weather conditions are extremely dry. Outdoor fire places shall not be used
during “Red Flag Warnings” issued by the National Weather Service, or burn bans
issued by the City Fire Department or the county.
      (11)   Hazard. Outdoor fireplaces shall be completely extinguished and/or
not be operated when breezes or winds are blowing which will cause smoke,
embers or other burning materials to be carried toward any building or other
combustible materials. The Fire Chief or an authorized representative shall
have the authority to require that use of the outdoor fireplace be immediately
discontinued if such use is determined to constitute any hazardous condition to
the occupants, or occupants of surrounding property.
      (12)   Nuisance to neighbors. Smoke from any outdoor fireplace shall not
create a nuisance for neighboring property owners. The fire shall be
extinguished immediately upon the complaint of any neighboring property owner
of any smoke nuisance.
      (13)   Maintenance. The owner is responsible to ensure proper maintenance
and care is accomplished in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions. At a
minimum, the outdoor fireplace will be checked regularly for the appearance of
cracks and other physical deterioration or loose parts.
(Ord. 588-20.1, passed 8-24-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556 and 81-520.01
**** FIREWORKS ****
§ 92.35 SALE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale or offer for sale
as a distributor, jobber or retailer any fireworks without first obtaining a
license from the State Fire Marshal. Licensees shall only sell fireworks which
have been approved by the State Fire Marshal.
   (B)   Permissible fireworks may be sold at retail or offered for sale at
retail within the city only from 8:00 a.m. on June 25 to 12:00 a.m. on July 4
and from 8:00 a.m. on December 29 to 12:00 a.m. on December 31 of each year.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to discharge, explode or use permissible
fireworks before 8:00 a.m. and after 11:00 p.m. June 25 through July 3 and
before 8:00 a.m. and after 11:00 p.m. December 29 through December 30.
   (D)   On July 4 and December 31 each year, permissible fireworks may be
lawfully discharged, exploded or used between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00
a.m.
(Prior Code, § 92.25) (Ord. 545-15, passed 11-23-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1246 through 28-1250
§ 92.36 FIRECRACKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause to be exploded fireworks or
firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except sparklers, Vesuvius
fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet type
color aerial shells without explosive charges for the purpose of making a
noise, color wheels, lady fingers, not exceeding seven-eighths inch in length
or one-eighth inch in diameter, and which do not contain more than one-half
grain each in weight of explosive material.
(Ord. 236, passed 12-2-1974) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1250
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or entity violating any of the rules and regulations in §
92.22 shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter and shall be fined in a
sum not to exceed the the amount set out in the Master Fee Schedule and pay
costs of prosecution.
   (C)   Any person discharging fireworks at times other than those set forth
in §
92.35 shall be guilty of an offense and shall be fined in a sum not exceeding
the amount set out in the Master Fee Schedule for each offense.
(Ord. 545-15, passed 11-23-2015; Ord. 588-20.1, passed 8-24-2020)
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Health regulations
   
93.02   Enforcement official
   
93.03   County Board of Health
Nuisances
   
93.15   Purpose
   
93.16   Definition
   
93.17   Abatement procedure
   
93.18   Adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
   
93.19   Dead or diseased trees
   
93.20   Diseases; contagion
   
93.21   Weeds and other nuisances
   
93.22   Garbage disposal
   
93.23   Rodents and insects
 
   
93.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 93.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
city, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 93.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Police Chief or other official designated by the City Council, as the
Quarantine Officer, shall be the chief health officer of the city. It shall be
his or her duty to notify the City Council and the Board of Health of health
nuisances within the city and its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine Officer, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 93.03 COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the city.
**** NUISANCES ****
§ 93.15 PURPOSE.
   The city by this subchapter defines its authority to define, regulate,
suppress and prevent nuisances, and to declare what shall be a nuisance for its
jurisdiction and to provide services to abate same for the health and
sanitation of the city.
(Ord. 523-12, passed - -2012)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 93.16 DEFINITION.
   (A)   General definition. A NUISANCE consists in doing any unlawful act, or
omitting to perform a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing
to be or exist, which act, omission, condition or thing:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street or
highway in the municipality;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property;
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property; or
      (7)   Tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   Specific definition. A NUISANCE includes, but is not limited to, the
maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting of any of the
following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions and things of:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish or fowl;
      (2)   The emission of smoke, dust, fumes, gases, mists, odors or polluted
air from any source that is injurious or dangerous to human health and safety;
      (3)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats or other insects and rodents or which
are foul or malodorous;
      (4)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
      (5)   Dead animals or dead animals buried within the corporate limits;
      (6)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
      (7)   Hauling any garbage, waste or refuse matter through the streets,
alleys and public ways except when the same is loaded and conveyed in such a
way when none of the contents shall be spilled;
      (8)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary retention of
waste in receptacles nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and
manner approved by the approved by the municipality;
      (9)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (10)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
or other insects or rodents may breed or multiply, or which may be a the
danger, or which are so unsightly as to depreciate property values in the
vicinity;
      (11)   Any unsafe building, unsightly building, billboard or other
structure, or any old, abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure
or any building or structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings,
billboards or other structures are a fire hazard, or a menace to the public
health or safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of any
property in the vicinity;
      (12)   All places used or maintained as junk yards or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (13)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any
kind are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter, including grain,
is being processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the
premises on which the vegetable or animal matter is located are maintained and
kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality or are maintained
and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
      (14)   Dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets within
the corporate limits of the city, or on private property within the one mile
zoning jurisdiction beyond the corporate limits;
      (15)   Undrained lots which hold or may hold stagnant water or any other
nuisance;
      (16)   Any condition which allows the perpetuating of insects and
rodents;
      (17)   Storage, accumulation, keeping, placing or allowing to remain
trash, garbage, scrap and wrecked, worn-out, broken or inoperative, or
partially destroyed or disassembled personal or real property of any kind,
including any junk or abandoned motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery
and equipment;
      (18)   Any vehicle which is not properly registered, or is inoperable,
wrecked, junked or partially dismantled and remaining longer than 30 days on
private property. This does not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and
manner, when necessary to the lawful operation of such business enterprise
(such as a licensed salvage dealer, motor vehicle dealer or farm implement
dealer) or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner, and so long as the premises which said vehicle is
located is not a nuisance and is maintained in a healthful and safe condition.
For the purpose of this division (B)(18), the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         PROPERLY REGISTERED. As required by state statutes.
         VEHICLE. As defined in Neb. RS 60-136: a motor vehicle, all-terrain
vehicle, mini-bike, trailer or semitrailer.
      (19)   Lots, pieces of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys with
growth of weeds or noxious growth;
      (20)   (a)   Maintenance of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation of 12
inches or more in height, or eight inches or more in height of weeds, grasses
or worthless vegetation on any lot or piece of ground located within the
corporate limits during any calendar year if, within the same calendar year,
the city has previously acted to remove weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation
exceeding 12 inches in height on the same lot or piece of ground and had to
seek recovery of the costs and expenses of such work from the owner.
         (b)   Weeds shall include, but not be limited to, bindweed
(Convolvulus arvensis), puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge
(Euphorbia esula), Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass
(Lepidium draba), Russian knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum
halepense), nodding or musk thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial
sow thistle (Sonchus arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull
thistle (Cirsium lanceoltaum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant
(Cannabis sativa) and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae); and
      (21)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(Prior Code, § 93.20) (Ord. 523-12, passed - -2012; Ord. 552-16, passed 4-25-
2016) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 18-1720
§ 93.17 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Nuisance Officer. The city shall appoint an individual or organization
to identify and enforce abatement of nuisances within the city. Said individual
or organization shall be identified as the Nuisance Officer, and said
appointment shall be identified by resolution of the city.
   (B)   Identifying nuisances.
      (1)   The city may identify suspected nuisances, in which case the City
Clerk shall, upon direction of the governing body, notify Nuisance Officer of
the suspected location, person or persons in violation of any provision of this
chapter and provide the address of such alleged nuisance.
      (2)   The city may request that the Nuisance Officer audit the city for
nuisances in the city as defined by this code. The Nuisance Officer shall then
view the property or area for any violations of the nuisances of the city. The
Nuisance Officer shall not go upon private property for said audit unless
granted permission by the resident/owner of suspected property.
   (C)   Confirming, documenting and presenting nuisances. The Nuisance Officer
shall identify and confirm that in his or her opinion a nuisance exists as
defined by federal, state or city law.
      (1)   Upon confirming that a nuisance appears to exist, the Nuisance
Officer shall document said nuisance with photographs and other evidence
pertinent to the situation. Nuisance Officer will also obtain the legal
description of the property and identify the current owners and, if possible,
the occupants of the property upon which the nuisance exists.
      (2)   The Nuisance Officer shall then present this information to the
city governing board at a regular or special meeting for its confirmation that
a nuisance exists as stated in division (D) below.
   (D)   Enforcement procedures.
      (1)   The nuisance, health and/or sanitation violation is brought to the
governing body by the City Nuisance Officer, or the Board of Health or upon the
governing body’s own action. The governing body then may declare by resolution
a nuisance, health and/or sanitation violation.
      (2)   The nuisance, health and/or sanitation ordinances may be enforced
by:
         (a)   City administrative procedures;
         (b)   Penal prosecutions through the courts; and/or
         (c)   By civil procedures in the courts.
      (3)   Any of these procedures or any combination of these procedures may
be used to enforce the nuisance, health and/or sanitation ordinances of the
city.
   (E)   Administrative procedure. The city may proceed with abatement of the
nuisance, sanitation and/or health violation with or without court involvement
after the following procedure is followed.
      (1)   After a nuisance is declared, the City Clerk notifies the Nuisance
Officer to serve notice upon the violator(s).
      (2)   The Nuisance Officer shall prepare and serve notice which shall
describe the found nuisance and state the required date of abatement and
removal of the nuisance shall be accomplished. The notice shall also provide
information as to how the interested parties may request a hearing before the
governing body described in division (E)(4) below.
      (3)   The notice shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized
agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, said notice shall
be given by a single publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city or county of the city, and by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot
or ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. The date of
service is determined by the later of certified mail receipt, personal service
or publication date.
      (4)   The accused violator (owner/agent/occupant) may request in writing
a hearing before the governing body of the city within five days after notice
of violation is served or published. For tree nuisance violations, the period
for requesting a hearing is extended to 30 days after service.
      (5)   If no request for a hearing is received in the required time
period, the governing body may cause a hearing to be held. This option is at
the sole discretion of the governing body to be used in exceptional cases.
      (6)   If a hearing is requested, the City Clerk shall fix date of said
hearing to be no later than 15 days from receipt of the request for the
hearing. Notice of said hearing and with the date and time shall be served upon
the agent, owner and of the nuisance property by certified and regular mail.
      (7)   (a)   The hearing shall be a show cause hearing in which the agent,
owner, occupant of the nuisance property (objecting property) shall provide
evidence why the alleged condition should not be found to be a public nuisance
and remedied. This hearing shall be heard before a quorum of the governing
body. The presiding official of the governing body may conduct the hearing or
said presiding official may appoint another person as the hearing officer to
conduct the hearing (said hearing officer may be the City Attorney or the
Enforcement Officer).
         (b)   At the hearing, the hearing officer shall mark and receive
evidence which was presented when the finding of a nuisance was made, relevant
evidence of the nuisance since that time and evidence that the notices were
properly given. The objecting party shall then provide its evidence. The rules
of evidence is not required at said hearing, but all evidence must be relevant
to the particular nuisance being heard. Testimony shall be under oath as
administered by the hearing officer or any person so designated by the hearing
officer, and the person providing the testimony is subject to the laws of
perjury. Evidence may be submitted in writing by affidavit.
      (8)   No later than 14 days after the hearing and consideration of the
evidence, the governing board may by majority vote rescind the resolution of
violation. If the resolution of violation is not rescinded, it shall stand.
Furthermore, if the objector or its designated agent fails to appear at the
hearing or does not provide evidence, the nuisance shall stand. If the
resolution is not rescinded, the governing board may, by resolution, extend the
date that owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee shall abate and remedy said
public nuisance, but in no case shall this time exceed 60 days. The findings of
the governing board shall be made no later than 14 days after the hearing, and
notice of its finding shall be served upon the objecting party by regular U.S.
Mail within five days of the finding. The finding of this hearing is final,
provided that an interested party or parties may appeal such decision to the
appropriate court for adjudication.
      (9)   If the Nuisance Officer determines the nuisance is not remedied and
abated within the time period designated, the city shall cause the abatement of
the nuisance.
      (10)   If an interested party properly appeals to an appropriate court
the findings and orders of the city, the city actions shall be stayed until
such time that the legal proceedings are completed or dismissed. In cases of
appeal from an action of the city condemning real property as a nuisance or as
dangerous under the police powers of the municipality, the owners of the
adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before trial.
   (F)   Expenses.
      (1)   When the city has effected the abatement of the nuisance, health
and/or sanitation violation through either city employees or through contract
with a third party and has incurred expenses and costs thereof, the actual cost
thereof shall be charged to the owner, agent, occupant or person in possession,
charge or control of such property. The billing shall be calculated at the
actual cost of abating the nuisance plus an administrative fee in an amount set
out in the Master Fee Schedule.
      (2)   This billing shall be submitted to the last known address of the
owner of the nuisance property as found in the County Treasurer’s office by
regular U.S. Mail.
      (3)   If said costs are not paid within two months after the work is done
and one month after the expenses and costs are submitted to the owner and/or
occupant, the city may levy and assess the expenses and costs upon the real
estate benefited by the actions in the same manner as other special assessments
are levied and assessed, and the city may collect said assessments in the same
procedure as other special assessments are collected. The city may also recover
said expenses and costs of abating the nuisance, health and/or sanitation
violation(s) in a civil action in the courts of the appropriate county in the
state.
(Ord. 523-12, passed - -2012)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 19-710
§ 93.18 ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the City Council condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the city, the
owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before
trial.
(Neb. RS 19-710)
§ 93.19 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   Dead tree branches, dead and diseased trees declared nuisances.
Pursuant to Neb. RS 17-555, it is hereby declared a nuisance and unlawful for a
property owner to permit, allow or maintain any dead or diseased trees or tree
branches within the right-of-way of any streets within the corporate limits of
the city.
   (B)   Nuisance; procedure. Upon complaint by any citizen to a member of the
City Police Department of dead branches, dead or diseased trees within the city
right-of-way, such police officer shall inspect the property to determine the
veracity of such complaint and, if such complaint is found to be justified,
shall give the owner of such property or occupant of the property a 30-day
notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to a hearing
before the City Council. Such notice shall inform the owner or occupant of his
or her rights to appear before the City Council to appeal such notice and shall
note the time and place for such hearing. Such notice shall be by personal
service or by certified mail. If the owner or occupant of the property does not
request a hearing and fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the city may have such work done and may levy and assess all or any
portion of the costs and expenses of the work performed on such property as a
special assessment against such property.
   (C)   Appeal. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City Council,
after hearing, may appeal the decision to the county district court. This
appeal shall and must be taken within 30 days of the pronouncement of the
Council’s decision.
   (D)   Immediate hazard. In the event the dead tree branches, dead or
diseased trees constitute an immediate hazard to the life or safety of any
persons and must be demolished to protect their health or safety, a specially
appointed building inspector or professional engineer designated by the City
Council shall report such facts to the Council. Upon receipt of such report the
city, by and through the City Council, may immediately contract for the
immediate demolition of the dead tree branches, dead or diseased trees without
notice to the owner or occupant and without requiring bids. The cost of such
removal shall be levied as a special assessment against the property involved.
(Prior Code, § 93.24) (Ord. 542-15, passed 5-26-2015) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555, 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 93.20 DISEASES; CONTAGION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every physician called in to care for or treat
a person afflicted with any contagious disease or any epidemic disease to make
a report of the same within 12 hours after being called in for such care to the
Municipal Police Chief. In the event that no physician is in attendance, it
shall be the duty of the person in charge of the care of such ill patient to
make a report within 12 hours from the time the disease is recognized.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to spread disease willfully or
negligently, or to cause the spread of the same.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other person
responsible for any child to fail or neglect to secure proper medical treatment
for said child when he or she is afflicted with a contagious or infectious
disease.
(Prior Code, § 93.25) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 WEEDS AND OTHER NUISANCES.
   (A)   Determination of nuisance. Whenever the Chief of Police, or code
enforcement officer appointed by the Mayor, determines that any weeds or
grasses in excess of 12 inches or weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation eight
inches or more in height, as described in §
93.16(B)(20), are growing on property within the city, or other nuisance, as
defined herein, is found on any property, the following abatement procedure
shall be followed.
      (1)   The City Police Department shall document the weeds or nuisance by
photographing the same. Once the weeds or nuisance has been documented, the
City Police Department shall give notice to mow, abate and remove such nuisance
to each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant of the
premises, if any, by personal service or certified mail with return receipt
requested. If mailed, such notice shall be conspicuously marked as to its
importance. Personal service shall be made by an officer of the City Police
Department. Such notice shall contain a copy of the photograph of the weeds or
nuisance, a copy of this section, instructions on abatement of the nuisance and
time in which such abatement shall be completed and possible penalties for
failure to abate.
      (2)   (a)   Within five business days after receipt of such notice, the
owner, agent or occupant of the lot or piece of ground may request a hearing
with the city to appeal the order to mow, abate or remove the nuisance by
filing a written appeal with the office of the City Clerk. A hearing on the
appeal shall be held within 14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be
conducted by the Mayor as hearing officer. The Mayor shall render a decision on
the appeal within five business days after the conclusion of the hearing. The
hearing shall be conducted informally and the formal rules of evidence shall
not apply but either party may appear with an attorney and may request that the
hearing be recorded for appeal purposes. Any decision rendered by the Mayor may
be appealed to the county district court. If no appeal is taken within ten days
of the Mayor’s decision, the owner, agent or occupant shall promptly comply
with the notice to abate.
         (b)   If abatement is not completed within 20 days of the Mayor’s
decision and no appeal is taken, the city police shall proceed pursuant to
divisions (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) below.
      (3)   Within ten days after receipt of such notice, if the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the city
or fails to appeal the decision of the Mayor and fails to comply with the order
to mow, or abate and remove the nuisance, the city shall again photograph the
weeds or nuisance to document that abatement has not occurred.
      (4)   If abatement has not occurred within the time prescribed, the city
police shall issue a citation to the owner or occupant of the property for
maintenance of a nuisance and shall deliver the original photographs, a copy of
the delivered notice to abate, along with the certificate of delivery or
acknowledged return receipt of the notice and the photographs taken subsequent
to the time to abate has elapsed, to the prosecuting attorney for the city and
request that charges be filed against the owner or occupant of the premises for
maintenance of a nuisance.
      (5)   In the alternative, the city may cause the weeds to be mowed or the
nuisance to be corrected or removed. The costs and expenses of any such work
shall be paid by the owner. If unpaid for two months after such work is done,
the city may either levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the
lot or piece of ground so benefited in the same manner as other special taxes
for improvements are levied and assessed or recover in a civil action the costs
and expenses of the work perform upon the lot or piece of ground on which the
work was performed.
   (B)   Second offense. In the event that an owner or agent of any property
with the city shall have received a notice to correct or abate a nuisance
within the past 12 months and is again charged again for the same offense, as
defined herein, the Chief of Police shall document such offense as set forth
above and request that a complaint against such owner, agent or occupant be
filed for maintenance of a nuisance with the county court.
   (C)   Failure to correct. Any owner or occupant of premises within the city
who maintains a nuisance, as defined herein, shall be guilty of violation of
this section. Each day’s further violation shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 552-16, passed 4-25-2016)
§ 93.22 GARBAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GARBAGE. Kitchen refuse, decayed waste, dead animals or anything that may
decompose and become offensive to the public health.
      RUBBISH or TRASH. Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks,
dead trees, branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers,
rags or any other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the
health of the residents of the municipality.
      WASTE. Cinders, ashes, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust or sand.
      YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on or about any
dwelling, building or premises, or any other place in the municipality, decayed
vegetable or animal substance, garbage or refuse matter of any kind that may be
injurious to the public health or offensive to the residents of the
municipality unless the same is kept in receptacles not exceeding a 50-gallon
capacity and as nearly airtight as may be practical. It shall be unlawful to
throw or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks or other public grounds any
dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse, waste or rubbish of any kind. No
person may permit garbage, rubbish, waste or refuse to collect and all persons
shall remove the same from their property within 24 hours after being notified
to do so by the Municipal Police Chief who shall represent the Board of Health.
Any person having garbage, rubbish, waste or refuse that is subject to decay or
fermentation within a short period of time shall be required to place the same
in a standard garbage can with a tight cover, or a durable plastic container
that is securely tied at its opening. All persons shall have the contents of
their garbage cans removed at least once a week.
(Prior Code, § 93.26) (Ord. 396, passed 1-23-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2016.01
§ 93.23 RODENTS AND INSECTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any dwelling
or building to be responsible for the active and continued extermination of any
insects, rodents or other pests therein, or on the premises. In the event that
the owner, lessee or occupant of any said dwelling or building neglects, fails
or otherwise refuses to control and actively exterminate the insects, rodents
and other pests in and about his or her premises, the Board of Health shall
issue notice for him or her to do so. If said owner, lessee or occupant has not
made a good faith effort to exterminate said pests within five days, the
premises shall be deemed to be a nuisance and a health hazard.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the occupant in a single dwelling
unit whether or not the dwelling unit is located in a multiple unit structure
to exterminate the rodents and insects infesting the premises when it is found
by the Board of Health that only the occupant’s dwelling is so infested.
   (C)   The owner of a multiple dwelling unit shall have the duty to
exterminate therein for rodents and insects when infestation exists in two or
more units, when infestation exists in shared or public areas of a multiple
unit structure when the infestation is due to failure by the owner to maintain
the dwelling in an insect and rodent proof condition. The owner of a single
dwelling unit shall have the duty to exterminate therein notwithstanding the
occupancy of a renter or lessee when the infestation of insects or rodents is
due to said owner’s failure to construct or maintain the premises in such a
manner as to make it reasonably resistant to the entrance and habitability of
such pests.
(Prior Code, § 93.27) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Penal court enforcement procedure. If the declared nuisance,
health and/or sanitation are not abated within 15 days that the notice is
served upon the owner and/or occupant, and the City Clerk has not received a
request for hearing, the Nuisance Officer may cause issue of a citation for the
code violation.
         (a)   The citation shall be prosecuted to the appropriate court by the
City Attorney or other designated prosecutor for the city.
         (b)   A person or persons found guilty of these violations shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined up to the amount set out in the Master Fee
Schedule per each offense.
         (c)   Each day that the nuisance, as identified in the nuisance
resolution and notice, is not abated shall be a separate offense and subject to
a separate fine.
      (2)   Civil court procedure. The governing board may instruct by
resolution the City Attorney to file a civil action for the abatement of a
nuisance. Said civil suit may commence after 15 days’ notice has been served as
stated in §
93.17 and may be filed and prosecuted at the same time any other enforcement
procedure has commenced, terminated or in progress.
   (C)   Any person, firm or other legal entity maintaining dead tree branches,
dead or diseased trees within the corporate limits of the city or its zoning
jurisdiction, as provided in §
93.19, shall be guilty of violation of this chapter and shall be fined in a sum
not to exceed the amount set out in the Master Fee Schedule. Each day’s
violation shall constitute a separate offence.
   (D)   Any person violating the terms of §
93.21 shall be guilty of an offense and fined in a sum of not more than the
amount set out in the Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 523-12, passed - -2012; Ord. 542-15, passed 5-26-2015; Ord. 552-16,
passed 4-25-2016)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.001   Definitions
   
94.002   Running at large; tethering
   
94.003   Prohibited animals and fowl
   
94.004   Wild animals
   
94.005   Killing, poisoning and injuring
   
94.006   Enclosures
   
94.007   Abandonment, neglect and mistreatment
   
94.008   Pitting prohibited
   
94.009   Animal control officer
   
94.010   Service animals
Rabies
   
94.025   Vaccination required
   
94.026   Licensing; rabies certificate; fee
   
94.027   Rabies suspected; impoundment
Dogs
   
94.040   Definitions
   
94.041   Animal control officer; appointment; compensation
   
94.042   Interference with animal control
   
94.043   Rabies vaccination
   
94.044   Licensing; rabies certificate; fee
   
94.045   Number allowed
   
94.046   Lost tag
   
94.047   Wrongful licensing
   
94.048   Restraint; owner’s duty
   
94.049   Collar or harness; owner’s id; license tag
   
94.050   Damage; liability of owner
   
94.051   Barking and offensive behavior; complaint
   
94.052   Female in season
   
94.053   Fighting dogs
   
94.054   Rabies suspected; impoundment
   
94.055   Vicious dogs; defined; prohibited
   
94.056   Dangerous dogs; definitions
   
94.057   Dangerous dogs; declaration; requirements
   
94.058   Dangerous dogs; confined
   
94.059   Dangerous dogs; failure to comply
   
94.060   Impoundment
Cats
   
94.075   License required
   
94.076   Tags; removal
   
94.077   Wrongful licensing
   
94.078   Owner; definition; liability
   
94.079   Rabid cats; proclamation
   
94.080   Running at large
   
94.081   Capture impossible
   
94.082   Vicious cats
   
94.083   Interference with police
   
94.084   Killing and poisoning cats prohibited
   
94.085   Howling and offensive behavior
   
94.086   Impoundment
 
   
94.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 94.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom other than an uncaptured
wild creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person authorized by law or employed or
appointed for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this chapter or any
other law or ordinance relating to the licensing, control, seizure or
impoundment of animals.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, harbors or has charge, custody
or control of an animal or permits an animal to habitually remain or be lodged
or fed within his or her house, store, building, enclosure, yard, lot, grounds
or premises. OWNER does not include any veterinarian or kennel operator
temporarily maintaining on his or her premises an animal owned by another
person for not more than 30 days.
   RUN AT LARGE. Not being under the actual control of the owner by means of:
      (1)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
which is securely fastened or tethered in a manner sufficient to keep the
animal on the premises where tethered;
      (2)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
of six feet or less in length physically held by the owner;
      (3)   Being confined within cage, receptacle, enclosed vehicle, fenced
enclosure or shelter; or
      (4)   Being within the real property limits of the owner and in the
owner’s presence and under direct and effective voice or other control.
§ 94.002 RUNNING AT LARGE; TETHERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cow, hog, horse, mule,
sheep, goat, dog, chicken, turkey, goose or other animal, except a cat, to
permit the animal to run at large at any time on any of the public ways and
property or the property of another in the city or to be tethered or staked out
in such a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass into any public way
or property or any property of another. The owner of a cat may permit the cat
to run at large within the corporate limits, subject to any restrictions or
prohibitions otherwise imposed by the City Council.
   (B)   Any animal found running at large or tethered or staked out in
violation of this section is a public nuisance and may be impounded or
destroyed as provided in this chapter. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to permit anyone to own an animal in the corporate limits of the city
that is prohibited by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
   Fine for permitting collarless dog to run at large, see Neb. RS 54-607
§ 94.003 PROHIBITED ANIMALS AND FOWL.
   (A)   (1)   No person, whether as owner, bailee, keeper or custodian, shall
keep or maintain whether domesticated or wild, any horse, mule, cow, swine,
sheep, goat, rabbit or any other animal within the corporate limits of the
city.
      (2)   Any person, whether as owner, bailee, keeper or custodian, that has
a permitted permissible use at this time will continue that use until such time
it is not used for that purpose for 12 consecutive months.
   (B)   (1)   No person, whether as owner, bailee, keeper or custodian, shall
keep or maintain, whether domesticated or wild, any chickens, ducks, turkeys,
geese or any fowl within the corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   Any person, whether as owner, bailee, keeper or custodian, that has
a permitted permissible use at this time will continue that use until such time
it is not used for that purpose for 12 consecutive months.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) (Ord. 447-03, passed 6-23-2003; Ord. 448-03, passed 6-23-
2003) Penalty, see § 94.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-547
§ 94.004 WILD ANIMALS.
   No wild animals may be kept within the corporate limits except wild animals
kept for exhibition purposes by circuses and educational institutions.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 94.005 KILLING, POISONING AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort to, or in any manner injure, maim or destroy,
or attempt to injure, maim or destroy, any animal or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal, except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this chapter
or other provisions of law.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 94.006 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement of animals not specifically barred within the corporate limits
shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace or
nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 94.007 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal for any length of time without making
effective provision for its food, water or other care as is reasonably
necessary for the animal’s health.
      ANIMAL.
         (a)   Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom, except humans.
         (b)   The term shall not include an uncaptured wild creature.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald or otherwise set upon any animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the State Patrol, any County or
Deputy Sheriff, any member of the police force of the municipality or any other
public official authorized by the municipality to enforce state or local animal
control laws, rules, regulations or ordinances.
   (B)   Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may seek a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for
or impound the animal.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may issue a citation to the owner as prescribed by law.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence.
   (C)   Violation. A person commits cruelty to animals if he or she abandons,
cruelly mistreats or cruelly neglects an animal.
(Prior Code, § 95.06) (Ord. 372, passed 12-17-1990) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1008, 28-1009 and 28-1012
§ 94.008 PITTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COCKFIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
      DOGFIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
      PITTING. Bringing animals together in combat.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly promote, engage in or be employed at
dogfighting, cockfighting or pitting an animal against another; nor shall any
person knowingly receive money for the admission of another person to a place
kept for such purpose; nor shall any person knowingly own, use, train, sell or
possess an animal for the purpose of animal pitting; nor shall any person
knowingly permit any act as described in this section to occur on any premises
owned or controlled by him or her.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly and willingly be present at and witness as a
spectator dogfighting, cockfighting or the pitting of an animal against another
as prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 95.07) (Ord. 373, passed 12-17-1990) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1004 and 28-1005
§ 94.009 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   Appointment; compensation. The City Council may appoint an individual
to serve as the animal control officer. His or her duties and responsibilities
shall be to enforce the provisions herein. For impounding dogs, the animal
control officer shall be paid a sum as set by resolution by the City Council
and kept on file in the city office for each dog so impounded. The officer
shall serve at the will of the City Council, and said appointment may be
terminated by majority vote of the Council, provided 30 days’ notice has been
given.
   (B)   Interference with animal control. It shall be unlawful for any person
to hinder, delay or interfere with any animal control officer who is performing
any duty enjoined upon him or her by the provisions of this chapter or to break
open or in any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise breaking
into the animal shelter or any vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of
dogs to the shelter.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 12-28-2020) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-906
§ 94.010 SERVICE ANIMALS.
   (A)   A SERVICE ANIMAL is one as defined by the American with Disabilities
Act of the United States of America.
   (B)   Service animals are permitted within the corporate limits of the city,
notwithstanding any prohibitions of maintaining vicious dogs within the city by
city ordinance, however, such service animals must be registered at the City
Clerk’s office by describing the animal, whether it has been trained to provide
assistance to an individual with a disability, the name and address of the
individual with the disability and the type of assistance such animal will
provide to the individual with the disability.
   (C)   (1)   Service dogs residing within the city which are defined as
vicious dogs by §
94.055 shall be physically restrained on the owner’s premises and shall not be
permitted to stray beyond the owner’s premises unless under positive control of
the owner or handler.
      (2)   If such animal is found outside of the owner’s premises and not in
the positive control of its handler or owner the city police shall apprehend
and confine such dog pursuant to the “dogs running at large” city ordinances.
   (D)   The owner or handler shall provide positive control at all times of
the service animal and such service animal shall be fitted with a muzzle to
prevent the same from attacking or biting any person or other animal while off
of the owner’s or handler’s property.
   (E)   Any owner or handler violating the terms of this section and failing
to provide positive control of any service animal or failing to properly muzzle
such service animal while off of the owner’s or handler’s property shall be
guilty of a violation of this section.
(Ord. 595-22, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
94.999
**** RABIES ****
§ 94.025 VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   Every dog shall be vaccinated against rabies pursuant to state law.
Unvaccinated dogs acquired or moved into the city must be vaccinated within 30
days after purchase unless under the age for initial vaccination. The
provisions of this subchapter with respect to vaccination shall not apply to
any dogs owned by a person temporarily residing within this city for fewer than
30 days, any dog brought into this city for show purposes or any dog brought
into this city for hunting purposes for a period of fewer than 30 days; such
dogs shall be kept under the strict supervision of the owner.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 12-28-2020) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4402
§ 94.026 LICENSING; RABIES CERTIFICATE; FEE.
   (A)   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog over the age of six
months within the city shall, within 30 days after acquisition of said dog,
acquire a license for each animal annually by or before January 1 each year.
Application shall be made upon a printed form provided by the city, upon which
the owner shall state his or her name and address and the name, breed, color
and sex of each dog owned and kept by him or her. In the event of a mixed
breed, the owner or harbor of such dog shall designate the predominant breed of
such dog. A certificate stating that the dog has had a rabies shot, effective
for the ensuing year of the license, shall be presented when the license is
applied for and no license or tag shall be issued until the certificate is
shown. If the dog has been spayed or neutered, a statement signed by a
veterinarian verifying the spaying or neutering must be presented.
   (B)   Upon payment of the license fee as set by resolution of the City
Council and kept on file in the city office, the City Clerk shall issue to the
dog owner a license certificate and a metallic tag for each animal so licensed.
The city shall, in addition to the license tax imposed, collect from the
licensee a fee of $1.25, or other such amount set out in the Master Fee
Schedule. The Clerk shall retain $0.03, or other such amount set out in the
Master Fee Schedule, from said fee and remit the balance to the State Treasurer
for credit to the Commercial Dog and Cat Operator Inspection Program Cash Fund.
The $0.03, or said amount set out in the Master Fee Schedule, collected shall
be credited to the General Fund along with the license fees.
   (C)   Said dog tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10; provided, that
the possessor of any dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits
subsequent to May 1 shall be liable for the payment of the dog tax levied
herein, and such tax shall be delinquent if not paid within ten days
thereafter. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to issue tags of a suitable
design that are different in appearance each year.
   (D)   The metallic tag shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of every dog so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor said
animal until December 31 of the following year. Said licenses shall not be
transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale or other
disposition of the licensed dog.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to maintain or keep said
dog within the city without a license tag affixed as required herein.
   (F)   Every service animal shall be licensed but no license tax shall be
charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of the animal as a service
animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the payment of a license
tax as prescribed herein.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 12-28-2020) Penalty, see §
94.999
Cross reference:
   Dogs, see §
94.044
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 54-603
§ 94.027 RABIES SUSPECTED; IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies or any dog not vaccinated
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter which has bitten any
person and caused an abrasion of the skin shall be seized and impounded under
the supervision of the Board of Health for a period of no fewer than ten days.
If, upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog has no clinical signs of rabies
at the end of such impoundment, it may be released to the owner or, in the case
of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions
herein. If the owner of said dog has proof of vaccination, it shall be confined
by the owner or some other responsible person for a period of at least ten
days, at which time the dog shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian. If no
signs of rabies are observed, the dog may be released from confinement.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 12-28-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4406
**** DOGS ****
§ 94.040 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal control
laws of the city, including any local law enforcement agency or other agency
designated by the city to enforce the animal control laws of the city.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual authorized by the animal control
authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this act or any other
law or ordinance relating to the licensing of animals, control of animals or
seizure and impoundment of animals and shall include any state or local law
enforcement or other employee whose duties in whole or in part include
assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any animal.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision or
department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog; and specifically in reference to a collarless dog, every person who shall
harbor such a dog about his or her premises for the space of ten days shall be
held to be the owner.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-606 and Neb. RS 71-4401
§ 94.041 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The City Council may appoint an individual to serve as the animal control
officer. His or her duties and responsibilities shall be to enforce the
provisions herein. For impounding dogs, the animal control officer shall be
paid a sum as set by resolution by the City Council and kept on file in the
city office for each dog so impounded. The officer shall serve at the will of
the City Council and said appointment may be terminated by majority vote of the
City Council, provided 30 days’ notice has been given.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023)
§ 94.042 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
animal control officer who is performing any duty enjoined upon him or her by
the provisions of this subchapter or to break open or in any manner directly or
indirectly aid, counsel or advise breaking into the animal shelter or any
vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of dogs to the shelter.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-906
§ 94.043 RABIES VACCINATION.
   Every dog shall be vaccinated against rabies pursuant to state law.
Unvaccinated dogs acquired or moved into the city must be vaccinated within 30
days after purchase unless under the age for initial vaccination. The
provisions of this subchapter with respect to vaccination shall not apply to
any dogs owned by a person temporarily residing within this city for fewer than
30 days, any dog brought into the city for show purposes, or any dog brought
into this city for hunting purposes for a period of fewer than 30 days; such
dogs shall be kept under the strict supervision of the owner.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. 71-4402
§ 94.044 LICENSING; RABIES CERTIFICATE; FEE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog over the age of
six months within the city shall within 30 days after acquisition of the said
dog acquire a license for each animal annually by or before January 1 each
year. Application shall be made upon a printed form provided by the city, upon
which the owner shall state his or her name and address and the name, breed,
color and sex of each dog owned and kept by him or her.
      (2)   In the event of a mixed breed the owner or harborer of such dog
shall designate the predominant breed of such dog. A certificate stating that
the dog has had a rabies shot, effective for the ensuing year of the license,
shall be presented when the license is applied for and no license or tag shall
be issued until the certificate is shown. If the dog has been spayed or
neutered, a statement signed by a veterinarian verifying the spaying or
neutering must be presented.
   (B)   Upon payment of the license fee as set by resolution of the City
Council and kept on file in the city office, the City Clerk shall issue to the
dog owner a license certificate and a metallic tag for each animal so licensed.
The city shall, in addition to the license tax imposed, collect from the
licensee a fee of $1.25. The City Clerk shall retain $0.03 from the said fee
and remit the balance to the state treasurer for credit to the Commercial Dog
and Cat Operator Inspection Program Cash Fund. The $0.03 collected shall be
credited to the general fund along with the license fees.
   (C)   (1)   The said dog tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10;
provided, the possessor of any dog brought into or harbored within the
corporate limits subsequent to May 1 shall be liable for the payment of the dog
tax levied herein and such tax shall be delinquent if not paid within ten days
thereafter.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to issue tags of a suitable
design that are different in appearance each year.
   (D)   The metallic tag shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of every dog so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor the said
animal until December 31 of the following year. Said licenses shall not be
transferable and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale or other
disposition of the licensed dog.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to maintain or keep said
dog within the city without a license tag affixed as required herein.
   (F)   Every service animal shall be licensed, but no license tax shall be
charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of the animal as a service
animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the payment of a license
tax as prescribed herein.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526 and Neb. RS 54-603
§ 94.045 NUMBER ALLOWED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or legal entity to keep more than three
dogs over six months of age under his or her ownership or on his or her
property at any one time.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.046 LOST TAG.
   In the event that a licensing tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence
that the original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions herein, the
City Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for
which the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee for each
duplicate tag so issued. Such fee shall be as set by resolution of the City
Council and kept on file in the city office.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526 and Neb. RS 54-603
§ 94.047 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any dog to permit
or allow such dog to wear any license, metallic tag or other city
identification other than that issued by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 94.048 RESTRAINT; OWNER’S DUTY.
   Any person who is the owner or in possession or control of any dog within
the corporate limits of the city shall at all times have the dog under
restraint through the use of a securely fastened rope, chain, leash or
underground electronic fencing system. The dog shall be secured so that it
shall not leave the premises of the owner or person in possession or control.
Electronic fencing shall be installed by a properly licensed and certified
professional and said fence line shall be at least 24 inches from the public
sidewalk. While off premises, the dog shall be leashed and the leash in
physical control of the owner or person in possession or control of any such
dog.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.049 COLLAR OR HARNESS; OWNER’S ID; LICENSE TAG.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner of every dog to securely place upon
the neck of such dog a good and sufficient collar or harness with a metallic
plate attached which shall be plainly inscribed with the name of such owner.
The city license tag shall also be attached. Any dog found running at large
upon the streets and public grounds of the village without a collar or harness
is hereby declared a public nuisance. Such dogs found running at large shall be
impounded in the city animal shelter by the animal control officer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed
the collar, harness, ID tag or license tag from any dog without the consent of
the owner, keeper or possessor thereof.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526 and Neb. RS 54-605
§ 94.050 DAMAGE; LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog owned, kept or harbored
by him or her or under his or her charge or control to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner or possessor of any such dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon
conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in an amount
equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 54-601 and 54-602
§ 94.051 BARKING AND OFFENSIVE BEHAVIOR; COMPLAINT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog which by
loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or yelping shall annoy or disturb
any neighborhood or person or which habitually barks at or chases pedestrians,
drivers or owners of horses or vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks,
streets or alleys in the city. Upon the written complaint of two or more
affected persons from different households, filed within any 30-day period with
the City Clerk, that any dog owned by the person named in the complaint is an
annoyance or disturbance or otherwise violates the provisions of this section,
the animal control officer shall investigate the complaint and, if in his or
her opinion the situation warrants, shall notify the owner to silence and
restrain such dog. The provisions of this section shall not be construed to
apply to the city animal shelter.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 94.052 FEMALE IN SEASON.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of a female
dog to permit her to run at large within the city while in season. Any such
female dog found running at large in violation of this section shall be
declared to be a public nuisance and as such may be impounded according to the
provisions herein.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 94.053 FIGHTING DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 94.054 RABIES SUSPECTED; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies or any dog not
vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter which has
bitten any person and caused an abrasion of the skin shall be seized and
impounded under the supervision of the Board of Health for a period of no fewer
than ten days.
   (B)   If, upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog has no clinical signs
of rabies at the end of such impoundment, it may be released to the owner or,
in the case of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in accordance with
the provisions herein.
   (C)   If the owner of the said dog has proof of vaccination, it shall be
confined by the owner or some other responsible person for a period of at least
ten days, at which time the dog shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian.
If no signs of rabies are observed, the dog may be released from confinement.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4406
§ 94.055 VICIOUS DOGS; DEFINED; PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The following dogs are hereby determined to be vicious dogs:
Staffordshire Bull Terrier; American Pit Bull; American Staffordshire Terrier;
Rottweiler; Doberman Pinscher; or any dog that has the appearance and
predominant characteristics of any of the aforementioned breeds. Exempt are all
Rottweiler dogs presently in the city, but once such dogs are permanently
removed from the city or die, no further Rottweilers will be allowed.
   (B)   In the event that there is a question of what the predominant
characteristics of a particular dog are, the certificate of a licensed Nebraska
veterinarian shall be prima facie evidence of the primary characteristics of
such dog.
   (C)   Any person, persons or legal entity feeding a vicious dog or dogs on
their property or allowing the same to remain on their property for more than
two days shall be conclusively determined to be keeping such vicious dog or
dogs.
   (D)   (1)   The keeping of vicious dogs by any person or legal entity within
the city is strictly prohibited. Each day’s maintenance of such an animal shall
constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   If the court finds that a dog is a vicious dog as defined in this
subchapter, the court, in addition to the usual judgement of conviction, may
order that the dog be humanely killed.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.056 DANGEROUS DOGS; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   A dog that, according to the records of an animal control
authority:
         (a)   Has killed a human being;
         (b)   Has inflicted injury on a human being for which the victim has
sought medical treatment;
         (c)   Has killed or injured a domestic animal without provocation; or
         (d)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog
by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination, and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not
require medical treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety
of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if:
         (a)   The individual was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog at
the time of the injury or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have
tormented, abused or assaulted the dog;
         (b)   If the injury, damage or threat was sustained by an individual
who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass, was committing any other
tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, was tormenting, abusing or
assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have
tormented, abused or assaulted the dog or was committing or attempting to
commit a crime; or
         (c)   If the dog is a trained dog assisting a law enforcement officer
engaged in law enforcement duties.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog or livestock.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes buffalo, deer, antelope, fowl and any other animal in
any zoo, wildlife park, refuge, wildlife area or nature center intended to be
on exhibit.
   MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other licensed
healthcare professional.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision or
department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that when unprovoked inflicts an injury on a human being
that does not require medical treatment, injures a domestic animal or chases or
approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any public grounds in a menacing
fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or
      (2)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the safety of humans
or domestic animals.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-617
§ 94.057 DANGEROUS DOGS; DECLARATION; REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner of a dangerous dog shall be notified of the violation by letter
delivered by the city law enforcement. The notice shall contain a statement
that the dog has been declared dangerous and that the following provisions,
must be complied with by the owner:
   (A)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed or
neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
   (B)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or leash
with a length of no more than four feet, under the direct control of the owner.
   (C)   Any person maintaining a dangerous dog on the premises shall maintain
liability insurance in the amount of $100,000 and shall provide proof of
insurance to the city clerk once every six months.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.058 DANGEROUS DOGS; CONFINED.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company or corporation
shall own, keep or harbor or allow to be in or on any premises occupied by him,
her or it or under his, her or its charge or control any dangerous dog without
such dog being confined so as to protect the public from injury.
   (B)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. The pen or structure shall have a bottom
constructed of concrete no less than four inches thick and the sides of the pen
shall be embedded in or securely attached to the concrete floor. The pen or
structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The pen or structure
shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the owner. The owner of a
dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the property where the dog is kept
that are clearly visible from all areas of public access and that inform
persons that a dangerous dog is on the property. Each warning sign shall be no
less than ten inches by 12 inches and shall contain the words “Warning” and
“Dangerous Animal” in high-contrast lettering at least three inches high on a
black background. Confinement must be made within ten days after receiving
notice that a determination has been made that the animal is a dangerous dog.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-7-2008; Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.059 DANGEROUS DOGS; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal control
officer if the owner is in violation of the provisions herein. The owner shall
be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control
authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control
officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal
control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated any of the
sections herein.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023)
§ 94.060 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to capture, secure
and remove in a humane manner to the city animal shelter any dog violating any
of the provisions of this subchapter. Every dog so impounded shall be treated
in a humane manner and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of food and
fresh water each day. Each impounded dog shall be kept and maintained at the
pound for a period of not less than five days after public notice has been
given, unless reclaimed earlier by the owner.
   (B)   Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant marks
or identification, shall be posted at the office of the City Clerk within 24
hours after impoundment as public notification of such impoundment; provided,
if the owner of the dog is known, the City Clerk may also attempt to personally
notify the owner of the impoundment. Any dog may be reclaimed by its owner
during the period of impoundment by payment of a general impoundment fee and
daily board fee as set by resolution of the City Council and filed in the city
office. The owner shall then be required to comply with the licensing and
rabies vaccination requirements within 48 hours after release. Any dog may be
reclaimed by its owner during the period of impoundment by payment of the costs
of impoundment.
   (C)   If the dog is not claimed at the end of the required waiting period
after public notice has been given, the animal control authority may dispose of
the dog in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations pertaining to
the same; provided, if a suitable home, in the judgment of the city, can be
found for any such dog within the city, the said dog shall be turned over to
that person and the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees and meet
all licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in this subchapter.
   (D)   The city shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog impounded in
the shelter for a period longer than the required waiting period after giving
notice. All dogs shall be destroyed and buried in the summary and humane manner
as prescribed by the animal control officer unless a suitable home can be found
for such dog as provided in subsection (C) above.
(Ord. 590-20, passed 4-24-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-548
**** CATS ****
§ 94.075 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a cat over the age of four
months within the municipality shall, within 30 days after acquisition of the
cat, acquire a license for each such cat annually by or before May 1 of each
year. Said tax shall be delinquent from and after May 30; provided, that the
possessor of any cat brought into or harbored within the corporate limits
subsequent to May 1 of any year shall be liable for the payment of a license
fee of $6.25 for each neutered or spayed cat and $26.25 for each cat that is
not spayed or neutered, or as otherwise set out in the Master Fee Schedule.
Licenses shall be issued by the Municipal Clerk upon the payment of a license
fee of $6.25 or $26.25 for each cat.
   (B)   (1)   The license shall not be transferable, and no refund will be
allowed in case of death, sale or other disposition of the licensed cat. The
owner shall state at the time the application is made and upon printed forms
provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the name, breed,
color and sex of each cat owned and kept by him or her. There shall be no more
than a total of two cats per household.
      (2)   A certificate of a licensed veterinarian that the cat has had a
rabies shot, that the cat is spayed or neutered, effective for the ensuing year
of the license, shall be presented when the license is applied for and no
license or tag shall be issued until the certificate is shown.
      (3)   The Municipal Clerk, upon payment of the $6.25 or $26.25 shall
issue the license. If this is delinquent, then the license shall be issued by
the Municipal Clerk upon payment in an amount covering the license fee of $6.25
or $26.25 and a penalty charge of $10 per cat, or as otherwise set out in the
Master Fee Schedule.
   (C)   A mandatory additional fee of $1.25 shall be charged on all license
transactions to support the State Commercial Dog and Cat Operator Inspection
Program, or in another amount set out by the Master Fee Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 95.60) (Ord. 404-97, passed 7-28-1997; Ord. 461-04, passed 8-23-
2004; Ord. 512-10, passed 7-26-2010; Ord. 551-16, passed 2-29-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 54-603
§ 94.076 TAGS; REMOVAL.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the payment of the license fee, the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer or a licensed veterinarian appointed by the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer
or designated agent shall issue to the owner of the cat a license certificate
and a tag for each cat so licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly
attached to the collar or harness of all cats so licensed and shall entitle the
owner to keep or harbor said cat until April 30, following such licensing.
      (2)   In the event that a license tag is lost and upon satisfactory
evidence that the original plate or tag was issued in accordance with the
provisions herein, the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a duplicate or new
tag for the balance of the year for which the license tax has been paid and
shall charge and collect a fee set by resolution of the governing body for each
duplicate or new tag so issued.
      (3)   All license fees and collections shall be immediately credited to
the General Fund. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer to
issue tags of a suitable design that are different in appearance each year. All
cats not properly licensed as provided for herein shall be impounded by the
Municipal Police.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed,
the collar, harness or metallic tag from any licensed cat without the consent
of the owner, keeper or possessor thereof.
(Prior Code, § 95.61) (Ord. 404-97, passed 7-28-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.077 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any cat to permit
or allow such cat to wear any license other than that issued by the city for
cats, nor shall the owner, keeper or harborer wrongfully and knowingly license
an unspayed female cat with a license prescribed for a male or spayed female
cat.
(Prior Code, § 95.62) (Ord. 404-97, passed 7-28-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.078 OWNER; DEFINITION; LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person who shall harbor or permit any cat for ten days or more in
or about his or her house, store or enclosure or to remain to be fed shall be
deemed the owner and possessor of such cat and shall be deemed to be liable for
all penalties herein prescribed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a cat owned, kept or
harbored by him or her or under his or her charge or control, to injure or
destroy any real or personal property of any description belonging to another
person. The owner or possessor of any such cat, in addition to the usual
judgment upon conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in
an amount equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
(Prior Code, § 95.63) (Ord. 404-97, passed 7-28-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.079 RABID CATS; PROCLAMATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the governing body whenever in its opinion the
danger to the public safety from rabid cats is great or imminent, to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping or harboring any cat to
confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more than 90 days from the
day of such proclamation or until such danger is passed. The cats may be
harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage or yard on the
premises wherein said owner may reside.
   (B)   Upon issuing the proclamation, it shall be the duty of all persons
owning, keeping or harboring any cat to confine the same, as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 95.64) (Ord. 404-97, passed 7-28-1997)
§ 94.080 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cat to allow such cat to run
at large at any time within the corporate limits of the municipality. It shall
be the duty of the Municipal Police Department to cause any cat found to be
running at large within the municipality to be taken up and impounded.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RUNNING AT LARGE. Any cat found off the premises of the owner and not
under control of the owner or a responsible person, either by leash, cord,
chain, wire, rope, cage or other suitable means of physical restraint.
(Prior Code, § 95.65) (Ord. 404-97, passed 7-28-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.081 CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The Municipal Police Department shall have the authority to kill any animals
showing vicious tendencies or characteristics of rabies, which make capture
impossible because of the danger involved.
(Prior Code, § 95.66) (Ord. 404-97, passed 7-28-1997)
§ 94.082 VICIOUS CATS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any cat of
a dangerous or ferocious disposition that habitually snaps or manifests a
disposition to attack, without said cat being securely confined.
   (B)   If any vicious or dangerous cat is otherwise held, confined or allowed
to run at large, the Municipal Police Department shall have the authority to
put the cat to death.
(Prior Code, § 95.67) (Ord. 404-97, passed 7-28-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.083 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
municipal police officer who is performing any duty enjoined upon him or her by
the provisions of this subchapter or to break open, or in any manner directly
or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open of the animal shelter,
any ambulance wagon or other vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of
cats to the shelter.
(Prior Code, § 95.68) (Ord. 404-97, passed 7-28-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.084 KILLING AND POISONING CATS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to kill or to administer, or cause to be administered,
poison of any sort to a cat, or in any manner to injure, maim or destroy, or in
any manner attempt to injure, maim or destroy any cat that is the property of
another person, or to place any poison or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to a cat; provided, that this section shall not apply to municipal
police officer acting within their power and duty.
(Prior Code, § 95.69) (Ord. 404-97, passed 7-28-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.085 HOWLING AND OFFENSIVE BEHAVIOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any cat which, by
loud, continued or frequent howling or meowing, shall annoy or disturb any
neighborhood, or person or which habitually chases pedestrians, drivers or
owners of horses, or vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks, streets
or alleys in the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 95.70) (Ord. 404-97, passed 7-28-1997) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.086 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Police Department to capture,
secure and remove in a humane manner to the municipal animal shelter any cat
violating any of the provisions of this subchapter. The cats so impounded shall
be treated in a humane manner and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of
food and fresh water each day. Each impounded cat shall be kept and maintained
at the pound for a period of not less than five days after public notice has
been given unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. Notice of impoundment of all
animals, including any significant marks or identifications, shall be posted at
the office of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer within 24 hours after impoundment
as public notification of such impoundment. Any cat may be reclaimed by its
owner during the period of impoundment by payment of a general impoundment fee
and daily board fee as set by resolution of the governing body and on file in
the office of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer. The owner shall then be required
to comply with the licensing and rabies vaccination requirements within 72
hours after release.
   (B)   If the cat is not claimed at the end of required waiting period after
public notice has been given, the Municipal Police Department may dispose of
the cat in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations pertaining to
the same; provided, that if, in the judgment of the Municipal Police, a
suitable home can be found for any such cat within the municipality, said cat
shall be turned over to that person and the new owner shall then be required to
pay all fees and meet all licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in
this subchapter. The municipality shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed
cat impounded in the animal shelter for a period longer than the required
waiting period after giving notice. All cats shall be destroyed and buried in
the summary and humane manner as prescribed by the Board of Health unless a
suitable home can be found for such cat.
(Prior Code, § 95.71) (Ord. 404-97, passed 7-28-1997)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or that person’s agents or servants, who violates any of
the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding an amount set out by the Master Fee Schedule. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure
to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this code, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
   (C)   Any person, upon violation of this chapter, who shall fail, neglect or
refuse to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be in
violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as follows, or as
otherwise out by the Master Fee Schedule:
      (1)   First violation: warning notice;
      (2)   Second violation: $25;
      (3)   Third violation: $50; or
      (4)   Fourth violation: forfeiture of animal.
   (D)   Any person violating any provisions of §
94.075 shall be fined $10 per day per animal after May 10, or as otherwise out
by the Master Fee Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 95.99) (Ord. 426-01, passed 8-27-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
111.   SALES AND ADVERTISING
   
112.   JUNKYARDS AND JUNK DEALERS
   
113.   AMUSEMENTS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
110.03   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
   
110.04   Occupation taxes
Licenses Required
   
110.15   License applications; municipal examination
   
110.16   Notice of hearing
   
110.17   Liquor application; retail licensing standards
   
110.18   Licensee requirements
   
110.19   Licenses; city powers and duties
   
110.20   License renewal; city powers and duties
   
110.21   Special designated liquor license application
   
110.22   Catering licenses
   
110.23   Display of license
   
110.24   Owner of premises or agent; liability
Retail Establishments
   
110.35   Access to dwellings
   
110.36   Hours of sale
   
110.37   Credit sales prohibited
   
110.38   Spiking beer prohibited
   
110.39   Original package required
   
110.40   Minor’s presence restricted
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.51 shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires
a different meaning.
§ 110.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift or procuring of, any alcoholic liquors to or for any
minor, or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property.
      (2)   An officer removing an intoxicated person from public or quasi-
public property shall make a reasonable effort to take such intoxicated person
to his or her home or to place such person in any hospital, clinic, alcoholism
center or with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to
prevent injury.
      (3)   Such effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts those facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals.
      (4)   If such efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer
may then place such intoxicated person in civil protective custody, except that
civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary to preserve
life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than 24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of such person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
such person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for such actions.
   (D)   (1)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under
this section shall not be considered an arrest.
      (2)   No entry or other record shall be made to indicate that the person
has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipally-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly-owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Prior Code, § 110.03) (Ord. 321, passed 3-3-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,121
§ 110.04 OCCUPATION TAXES.
   (A)   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied
on the following business for retail only.
   (B)   The following amounts shall be subject to change at the discretion of
the City Council, and shall be available on the Master Fee Schedule.
 
Class A $25
Class B $25
Class C $250
Class D $150
Class I $250
 
(Prior Code, § 110.04) (Ord. 472-05, passed 2-28-2005; Ord. 513-10, passed 11-
22-2010)
**** LICENSES REQUIRED ****
§ 110.15 LICENSE APPLICATIONS; MUNICIPAL EXAMINATION.
   (A)   Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to sell alcoholic
liquors at retail shall file with the Liquor Control Commission. The Commission
shall then notify the City Clerk by registered or certified mail. The governing
body shall then meet and determine the desirability of the application and
report its recommendation for approval or denial of the application in writing
to the State Liquor Control Commission within 45 days of receipt from the State
Liquor Control Commission. The governing body may examine, or cause to be
examined, under oath, any applicant; examine, or cause to be examined, the
books and records of any such applicant; to hear testimony, and to take proof
for its information in the performance of its duties. For the purpose of
obtaining any of the information desired, the governing body may authorize its
agent City Clerk, or the City Attorney, to act on its behalf. The governing
body may conduct the examination and hold the hearing upon the receipt from the
Commission of the notice and copy of the application.
   (B)   The governing body shall fix a time and place to which a hearing will
be held, and at which time the governing body shall receive evidence under
oath, either orally or by affidavit, from the applicant and any other person
concerning the propriety of the issuance of such license. Notice of the time
and place of such hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in, or of
general circulation in, the municipality one time not less than seven nor more
than 14 days before the time of the hearing. Such notice shall include, but not
be limited to, a statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before
the local governing body in support of or in protest against the issuance of
such license may do so at the time of the hearing. Such hearing shall be held
not more than 21 days after the receipt of notice from the Commission.
   (C)   After such hearing, the governing body shall cause to be spread at
large in the minute record of its proceedings a resolution recommending either
issuance or refusal of such license. The City Clerk shall thereupon mail to the
Commission, by first class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution
which shall state the cast of the published notice.
(Prior Code, § 110.20) (Ord. 350, passed 8-4-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-131 through 53-134
§ 110.16 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   Notice. Notice of a hearing held pursuant to Neb. RS 53-134, shall be
given to the applicant by the City Clerk and shall contain the date, time and
location of the hearing. Two or more proceedings which are legally or factually
related may be heard and considered together unless any party thereto makes a
showing sufficient to satisfy the Council that prejudice would result
wherefrom.
   (B)   Procedure. 
      (1)   Hearings will be informal and conducted by the Mayor. The intent is
an inquiry into the facts, not an adversary action. Each witness may present
their testimony in narrative fashion or by question and answer. The governing
body or the applicant may order a transcript of the hearing to be recorded by
the Clerk, at the expense of the applicant.
      (2)   The governing body and its representatives shall not be bound by
the strict rules of evidence and shall have full authority to control the
procedures of the hearing, including the admission or exclusion of testimony or
other evidence. The governing body may admit and give probative effect to
evidence which possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonably
prudent individuals. The Mayor may limit testimony where it appears
incompetent, irrelevant or unduly repetitious. If there is opposition to any
application and such opposition desires the opportunity to present arguments
and to crass-examine the applicant and any witnesses in favor of such
application, they shall choose a spokesperson to perform such function who
shall notify the Mayor or his or her representation prior to the start of the
hearing.
      (3)   The order of the proceedings is as follows:
         (a)   Exhibits will be marked in advance by the Clerk and presented to
the Mayor during the presentation;
         (b)   Presentation of evidence, witnesses and arguments by applicant;
         (c)   Testimony of any other citizens in favor of such proposed
license;
         (d)   Examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by governing
body, or duly appointed agent;
         (e)   Cross-examination of the applicant, witnesses or citizens by
City Attorney or other municipal official;
         (f)   Cross-examination of the applicant, witnesses or citizens by
spokesperson for opposition, if any;
         (g)   Presentation of evidence and witnesses by opposition;
         (h)   The testimony of any other citizen in opposition to such
proposed license;
         (i)   Presentation of evidence by city and law enforcement personnel:
         (j)   Cross-examination by applicant;
         (k)   Rebuttal evidence by both parties and by city administration and
agent; and
         (l)   Summation by applicant and opposition spokesperson, if any.
      (4)   In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the
party filing the application.
      (5)   Any member of the governing body and the City Attorney may question
any witness, call witnesses or request information.
      (6)   All witnesses shall be sworn.
      (7)   The governing body or the applicant may order a transcript (the
hearing to be recorded by the Clerk) at the expense of the applicant.
(Ord. 350, passed 8-4-1986)
§ 110.17 LIQUOR APPLICATION; RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS.
   (A)   The City Council shall consider the following licensing standards and
criteria at the hearing and an evaluation of any applicant for a retail
alcoholic liquor license, for the upgrading of a license to sell alcoholic
liquor, or for the expansion or change in location of the premises, and for the
purpose of formulating a recommendation from the governing body to the State
Liquor Control Commission in accordance with the State Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.:
      (1)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in
the area;
      (2)   The recommendation of the Police Department or any other law
enforcement agency;
      (3)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity
of the proposed licenses premises, potential traffic and parking problems and
the proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking;
      (4)   Zoning restrictions and the municipality’s zoning and land-use
policies;
      (5)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
      (6)   The existence of a citizens’ protest and any other evidence in
support of or in opposition to the application;
      (7)   The existing population and projected growth, both city-wide and
within the area to be served;
      (8)   The existing liquor licenses, the class of such license and the
distance and times of travel to such licenses;
      (9)   The nature and needs of the neighborhood or community where the
proposed premises are located as well as its projected growth;
      (10)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated
in conjunction with the proposed license is and will be consistent with the
public interest;
      (11)   Whether the applicant is fit, willing and able to properly provide
the service proposed in conformance with all provisions, requirements, need and
regulations provided for in the State Liquor Control Act;
      (12)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management
and control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure
that the licensee can conform to all the provisions, requirements, rules and
regulations provided for in the State Liquor Control Act;
      (13)   The background information of the applicants established by
information contained in the public records of the State Liquor Control
Commission and investigations conducted by the Police Department;
      (14)   Past compliance with state laws and liquor regulations and
municipal ordinances and regulations;
      (15)   Whether the applicant or its representatives has suppressed any
fact or provided any nonfactual information to the local governing body or its
employees in regard to the license application or liquor investigations. The
applicant is required to cooperate in providing a full disclosure to the
investigating agents of the municipality; and
      (16)   The City Council may fix certain requirements and prescribe
certain conditions upon a license when it is granted or permitted to continue
in full force and effect whether such requirements or conditions are imposed at
a formal hearing by a written notice, or in a written stipulation, and such
requirements or conditions shall be deemed to be a part of the license as
though fully endorsed therein; and any violation or breach of any requirement
or condition is prohibited.
   (B)   The preceding standards are not necessarily of equal value that can be
computed in a mathematical formula. Rather, they are standards which can be
weighed and cumulated positively and negatively. The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable, the
term APPLICANTS as used herein is synonymous with LICENSEES.
(Ord. 350, passed 8-4-1986)
§ 110.18 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in the case of
railroad, airline, boat or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has plead guilty to a felony
under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has plead guilty to any Class
I misdemeanor pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 28, Article 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11 or 12,
or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A)(5) on May
18, 1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the State Liquor Control Act,
Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act, would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division (A)(10) shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   (a)   Except as provided in this division (A)(13), an applicant
whose spouse is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor
license. Such an applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if
the State Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public
interest will not be infringed upon if the license is granted.
         (b)   It shall be prima facie evidence that when a spouse is
ineligible to receive a liquor license, the applicant is also ineligible to
receive a liquor license.
         (c)   This prima facie evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to
the satisfaction of the Commission:
            1.   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
            2.   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet the
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division (A)(15) shall
not prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
§ 110.19 LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The governing body is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.,
the business of all retail or craft brewery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receiving from the
State Liquor Control Commission notice and a copy of an application for a new
license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or a craft brewery license, the
governing body may make and submit to the Commission recommendations relative
to the granting or refusal to grant such license to the applicant.
   (C)   The governing body, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the municipality, has the following powers, functions and duties with
respect to retail and craft brewery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail or craft brewery licenses to
sell or dispense alcoholic liquor issued to persons for premises within its
jurisdiction, subject to the right of appeal to the State Liquor Control
Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the State Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation adopted by the governing body has been or is being violated and at
such time examine the premises of such licensee in connection with such
determination;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon such complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail license fees and craft brewery license fees as
provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and pay the same, after the license has been
delivered to the applicant, to the Municipal Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail
licensee or craft brewery licensee upon whom notice of cancellation or
revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine or cause to be
examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee and to hear
testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the governing
body may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in Neb. RS 53-134.04, it determines that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act or
any valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation duly
enacted, adopted and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. Such order of
cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days
after the date of the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission.
The Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an
application in Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   (a)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the governing body shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of such hearing
shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the
municipality, one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing. Such notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the governing body
in support of or in protest against the issuance of such license may do so at
the time of the hearing.
         (b)   The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date
of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and, after such hearing, the
governing body shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its
proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of such
license. The Municipal Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the
published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall not
void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue
such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs.
   (D)   (1)   When the State Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Municipal Clerk a retail or craft brewery license issued or renewed by the
Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee upon receipt
from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124(5) the fee is
payable to the Municipal Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the
governing body upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the municipality.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
municipality shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person,
firm or corporation licensed under the State Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the municipality in any sum which
exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the
Act to obtain such license.
(Prior Code, § 110.22) (Ord. 469-05, passed 2-28-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-131, 53-132, 53-134 and 53-134.03
§ 110.20 LICENSE RENEWAL; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail license issued by the State Liquor Control Commission and
outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in the absence of a
written request by the governing body to require the licensee to submit an
application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an area which
is annexed to the municipality shall file a formal application for a license,
and while such application is pending, the licensee may continue all license
privileges until the original license expires or is canceled or revoked. If
such license expires within 60 days following the annexation date of such area,
the license may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more than one
year.
   (B)   (1)   The Municipal Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the municipality, one time between
January 10 and January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form
prescribed by law of the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and
beer license within the municipality, except that notice of the right of
automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall be published between the dates of
July 10 and July 30 of each year.
      (2)   If written protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a
license are filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk by three or more
residents of the municipality on or before February 10, or August 10 for Class
C licenses, the governing body shall hold a hearing to determine whether
continuation of the license should be allowed.
      (3)   Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the
governing body may request a licensee to submit an application as provided in
Neb. RS 53-135.
(Prior Code, § 110.23) (Ord. 470-05, passed 2-28-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-135 and 53-135.01
§ 110.21 SPECIAL DESIGNATED LIQUOR LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.11, the Mayor and Council of a second class
city may provide procedures for approval of special designated liquor licenses.
Pursuant to such authority, the Mayor and City Council hereby appoints the City
Clerk as the designated city official to approve or deny applications for a
special designated liquor license.
   (B)   Prior to approval of any such special designated liquor license, the
applicant shall provide the following information to the City Clerk along with
the application for the special designated license:
      (1)   Review and recommendation for approval or denial of such
application by the Chief of Police or his or her designated officer;
      (2)   A detailed plan for providing restroom facilities for the expected
number of persons attending the event;
      (3)   A detailed plan for traffic control and vehicle parking for event
participants;
      (4)   A statement that the proposed activity will comply with all city
ordinances and state statutes; and
      (5)   A detailed, workable plan to prevent under aged persons from
purchasing or possessing alcoholic liquor on or about the premises.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall not approve such special designated liquor
license when:
      (1)   No workable plan is provided with the application to prevent
underage persons from purchasing or possessing alcoholic liquor on or about the
premises to be licensed;
      (2)   Any municipal department of the city notifies the City Clerk that
the issuance of such license shall violate any applicable fire code, building
code, health code or other applicable ordinance or regulation;
      (3)   The application is made by a corporation, association, organization
or other legal entity whose local membership consists of a majority of
individuals who are under the legal drinking age, where the use of such special
designated liquor license is for a social event for such corporation,
association, organization or legal entity;
      (4)   The area included within a special designated permit is outside of
any fully enclosed structure, except when the application is made in
conjunction with a festival or other similar sponsored or city supported
community event; and
      (5)   The application requests authorization to sell or consume alcoholic
liquors beyond the hours for sale at retail and dispensing authorized by this
code.
   (D)   The City Clerk may decline to approve the special designated license
for any reason and in this case he or she shall submit the same to the City
Council for consideration at a special meeting or at the Council’s next
regularly scheduled meeting. In the event that the City Clerk denies a request
for a special designated liquor license, for any reason, the applicant may
resubmit the application to be heard by the Mayor and Council.
   (E)   In the event that the City Clerk determines that the application
complies with divisions (B) and (C) above, the Clerk shall forthwith approve
such application and notify the State Liquor Control Commission of said
approval.
(Ord. 559-17, passed 8-28-2017)
§ 110.22 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124(5) or a craft brewery license may obtain an annual
catering license by filing an application and license fee with the State Liquor
Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the governing body shall process
the application in the same manner as provided in §
110.19.
   (C)   The governing body, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which such catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the district court. The governing body may
impose an occupation tax on the business of a catering licensee doing business
within the liquor license jurisdiction of the governing body. The tax may not
exceed double the license fee for a catering license.
(Prior Code, § 110.24) (Ord. 471-05, passed 2-28-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-124.12
§ 110.23 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.,
shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain view in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.24 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.,
or any city ordinance, that owner, agent or other person shall be deemed guilty
of a violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the licensee and
be subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS ****
§ 110.35 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which has any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public.
   (B)   This section does not prevent any connection between the premises and
such other portion of the building or structure which is used only by the
licensee, his or her family or personal guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.36 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFF-SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail in the original container
for consumption off the premises of the licensed establishment.
      ON-SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail by the drink for consumption
on the premises of the licensed establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their
agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the municipality except during
the hours provided herein; provided, that such limitations shall not apply
after 12:00 p.m. on Sunday to a licensee which is a nonprofit corporation
holding a license pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124(6)(iii).
Hours of Sale
Hours of Sale
Alcoholic Liquors (except beer and wine)
Secular days
   Off-sa6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
   On-sal6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Sundays
   Off-sa6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. Monday
   On-sal6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. Monday
Beer and Wine
Secular days
   Off-sa6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
   On-sal6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Sundays
   Off-sa6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. Monday
   On-sal6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. Monday
 
   (C)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on said premises.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for business on days and hours during which the sale
or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell at retain any
alcoholic beverages without first obtaining a special designated license from
the State Liquor Commission. This license will allow the license holder to sell
liquor on December 31, 1999, from 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. on January 1, 2000.
(Prior Code, § 110.51) (Ord. 252, passed 7-6-1976; Ord. 284, passed 1-2-1979;
Ord. 376, passed 5-20-1992; Ord. 417-99, passed 12-27-1999; Ord. 473-05, passed
2-28-2005; Ord. 526-12, passed 9-24-2012; Ord. 528-12, passed 10-22-2012)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 110.37 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person on
credit of any kind, barter or services rendered, provided that nothing herein
contained shall be construed to prevent any club holding a Class C license from
permitting checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members,
or guests of members, and charged to the accounts of said members or guests in
accordance with the bylaws of such club, and provided further that nothing in
this section shall prevent any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license
from permitting checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests
residing in the hotel or eating at the restaurant and charged to the accounts
of such guests.
(Prior Code, § 110.52) (Ord. 287, passed 1-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-183
§ 110.38 SPIKING BEER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or for any licensee to sell or offer for
sale in this municipality any beer to which there has been added any alcohol or
to permit any person to add alcohol to any beer on the licensed premises of
such person or licensee.
(Neb. RS 53-174) (Prior Code, § 110.53) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.39 ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill,
in whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or
any other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession
for sale at retail any bottles, casks or other containers containing alcoholic
liquor except in original packages.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the refilling of original
packages of alcoholic liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.40 MINOR’S PRESENCE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
CHAPTER 111: SALES AND ADVERTISING
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Advertising displays, signs and the like
   
111.02   Handbills
Peddlers and Hawkers
   
111.15   Definitions
   
111.16   License requirement
   
111.17   Application procedure
   
111.18   Standards for issuance
   
111.19   Revocation procedure
   
111.20   Standards for revocation
   
111.21   Appeal procedure
   
111.22   Exhibition of identification
   
111.23   City policy on soliciting
   
111.24   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.25   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
111.26   Prohibited solicitation
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 111.01 ADVERTISING DISPLAYS, SIGNS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to erect or cause to be
erected any advertising display, sign or other construction in the parkways or
on other municipal property.
(Neb. RS 17-140) (Prior Code, § 111.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 HANDBILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to scatter or throw any handbills,
dodgers or other advertising matter on any public grounds. No person or persons
may place or post any handbill, dodger, advertising papers or advertising
devices on any automobiles, trees or fences standing upon the streets, alleys
or public grounds, and such practices are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Neb. RS 17-140) (Prior Code, § 111.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS ****
§ 111.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale or
making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the city.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a PEDDLER.
(Prior Code, § 111.15)
§ 111.16 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this subchapter shall be as set
from time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this subchapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this subchapter shall expire 90 days after
the date of issuance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 111.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.17 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this subchapter shall file an
application with the Clerk. This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this subchapter shall attach
to their application, if required by the city, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
(Prior Code, § 111.17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.18 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, the following tangible evidence relating to the applicant will
constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
(Prior Code, § 111.18)
§ 111.19 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this subchapter may be revoked by the
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.20. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 111.19)
§ 111.20 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this subchapter may be revoked for any of the
following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this subchapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or conviction of the licensee
of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
(Prior Code, § 111.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.21 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.18 or
111.20 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.19.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 111.21)
§ 111.22 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this subchapter
shall be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event
more than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this subchapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed Peddler”
or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license and the number of
the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such time as he
or she is engaged in the business licensed.
(Prior Code, § 111.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.23 CITY POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupants of the
residences in the city shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
(Prior Code, § 111.23)
§ 111.24 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
“NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third of one inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(Prior Code, § 111.24)
§ 111.25 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the city upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.24 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 111.25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.26 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.24.
(Prior Code, § 111.26) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: JUNKYARDS AND JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Owner’s responsibility
   
112.03   Inspections
   
112.04   Nuisance
   
112.05   Records
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person engaged in the business of buying, selling,
receiving, collecting or dealing in metal scraps, scrap iron, metals of any
kind and in any form, bottles, rags and used tires; the dismantling or taking
apart of automobiles, other than for repair, or the wrecking of automobiles;
the storage of automobiles unfit for operation; the storage of automobile
bodies and parts thereof; the storage of automobiles or parts thereof kept for
salvage; the storage of scraps from automobiles; or the storage of iron, metals
or junk.
   JUNKYARD. Any place in the municipality where or from which any person shall
conduct, engage in or carry on the business of junk dealer, as herein defined.
(Prior Code, § 113.01) (Ord. 391, passed 5-23-1994)
§ 112.02 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the premises upon which a junkyard is located shall be equally
responsible with the operator, director or employee thereof to see that the
provisions of this chapter will not be violated. In the event the provisions of
this chapter are violated, he or she shall be equally liable with the operator,
director or employee for said violation of the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) (Ord. 391, passed 5-23-1994)
§ 112.03 INSPECTIONS.
   The municipal police, Utility Superintendent, Mayor, Board of Health and the
governing body shall have the power and authority to inspect and examine the
premises on which a junkyard is located; provided, that said inspection is at a
reasonable time. Upon a finding that the owner, operator, director or employee
has allowed a health or safety hazard to develop, the governing body or Board
of Health shall give written notice to the owner to remove said health hazard
within 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) (Ord. 391, passed 5-23-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 69-204
§ 112.04 NUISANCE.
   Any junkyard that becomes a danger to the public health, or is not operated
in the manner herein provided, or is in violation of the provisions of §§
93.15 through
93.23, shall be deemed to be a public nuisance. The Board of Health may issue
notice to abate or remove the nuisance pursuant to the procedures of §§
93.15 through
93.23, except that the Board of Health may, in its discretion, allow more than
ten days for the abatement or removal of the nuisance, but the request for
hearing by the person or persons served shall still be within the ten days
prescribed by §§
93.15 through
93.23
(Prior Code, § 113.04) (Ord. 391, passed 5-23-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 112.05 RECORDS.
   Any person who shall be engaged in the junk business shall keep a book on
which shall be legibly written in ink at the time of any purchase of goods or
articles the time the same was received and the name, residence and description
of the person doing the selling. Said book, as well as the article purchased,
shall be, at all reasonable times, subject to the inspection of the governing
body or any member of the municipal police.
(Prior Code, § 113.05) (Ord. 391, passed 5-23-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 69-204
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
113.01   Lottery
   
113.02   Bingo
   
113.03   Public dances
§ 113.01 LOTTERY.
   (A)   Participation; restrictions.
      (1)   No person under 19 years of age shall play or participate in any
way in the lottery established and conducted by the governing body.
      (2)   No lottery operator whom the governing body contracts to conduct
its lottery or his or her immediate family, employees or agents; or any person
having an ownership interest in a sales outlet location or employee thereof,
shall play in lottery establishment and conducted by the governing body.
      (3)   Nothing shall prohibit any member of the governing body, a
municipal official or the immediate family of such member of official, from
playing in the lottery established and conducted by the governing body;
provided, that such person is 19 years of age or older.
      (4)   For the purpose of this section, IMMEDIATE FAMILY shall mean a
person who is related to the member, official or operator by blood, marriage or
adoption and resides in the same household of the member, official or operator;
or a person who is claimed by the member, official, operator or spouse of a
member, official or operator as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Prior Code, § 114.01)
   (B)   Sales outlet locations; approval required; qualification standards.
      (1)   The lottery operator with whom the City Council contracts to
conduct its lottery shall not operate the lottery at a sales outlet location
other than the location of the lottery operator without prior approval of the
sales outlet location by the City Council. The City Council shall approve or
disapprove each sales outlet location and individual, sole proprietorship,
partnership, limited liability company or corporation which desires to conduct
the lottery at its sales outlet location solely on the basis of the
qualification standards prescribed in division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   Any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, limited liability
company or corporation which seeks to have its location approved as an
authorized sales outlet location shall:
         (a)   First obtain a retail liquor license for consumption on the
premises pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 53, Article 1;
         (b)   Not have been convicted of, forfeited bond upon a charge of, or
pleaded guilty to forgery, larceny, extortion, conspiracy to defraud, willful
failure to make required payments or reports to a governmental agency at any
level, filing false reports with any such agency or any similar offence or
offenses or any crime, whether felony or misdemeanor involving gambling
activity or moral turpitude;
         (c)   Not have had a gaming license revoked or cancelled under the
State Bingo Act, being Neb. RS 9-201 et seq., the State Pickle Card Lottery
Act, being Neb. RS 9-301 et seq., the Small Lottery and Raffle Act, being Neb.
RS 9-501 et seq., or the State County and City Lottery Act, being Neb. RS 9-601
et seq.; and
         (d)   Be fit, willing and able to properly provide the service
proposed in conformance with all provisions and requirements of the State
County and City Lottery Act and the rules and regulations adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act.
      (3)   If the person seeking to have its location approved as an
authorized sales outlet location is a partnership or corporation, the
qualification standards shall apply to every partner of such partnership, every
officer of such corporation and stockholder owning more that 10% of the stock
of such corporation.
      (4)   The governing body shall notify the Department of Revenue of all
approved locations within 30 days of approval.
(Prior Code, § 114.02)
(Ord. 480-06, passed 2-27-2006; Ord. 481-06, passed 2-27-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 9-236 and 9-642.01
§ 113.02 BINGO.
   (A)   Bingo; regulation. Games of bingo shall be conducted within the
municipality in accordance with all laws of the municipality and the state if
said game of bingo is played for or involves profit or gain. Any association
duly licensed by the state to conduct the game of bingo shall obtain a written
permit from the governing body before commencing operation of said game.
Application shall be made to the Municipal Clerk for such permit. Said
application form shall contain such information and documents or copies thereof
as the governing body deems necessary to determine whether to grant or reject
the application. Upon the determination that granting the application would be
proper, the governing body shall immediately direct the Municipal Clerk to
issue said license to the applicant upon the payment of an annual permit fee as
set out by the Master Fee Schedule. Said license shall be subject to revocation
at any time for good cause. Any person or persons, so licensed shall be subject
to any other fees, rules and regulations which the governing body may
designate. All permits so issued will automatically expire on March 31
following their issuance or renewal. The fee for each renewal unless otherwise
prescribed shall be in the sum as set out by the Master Fee Schedule. Said fee
shall be credited to the General Fund. The permit shall be on display at any
place where a game of bingo is conducted.
   (B)   Bingo; tax. A tax of 2% of the gross receipts of each licensed
association deriving revenue from the game of bingo is hereby imposed and
levied against each such association and payable on or before the thirtieth day
of the immediately succeeding calendar quarter to the Municipal Treasurer. Such
tax shall be credited to the Municipal General Fund and shall be used to pay
for the cost of regulation and enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 283, passed 1-2-1979; Ord. 375, passed 12-17-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 9-236 and 9-239
§ 113.03 PUBLIC DANCES.
   No portion of the City Hall or any other municipally owned building which
has been declared by the Mayor and City Council to be hazardous to public
health and safety shall be used by any person, persons or organization for
holding dances, public or private.
(Ord. 279, passed 11-7-1978)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
   
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
   
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
   
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
   
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
   
135.   ILLEGAL ALIENS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
130.01   Criminal mischief
   
130.02   Criminal trespass
   
130.03   Electrical interference
   
130.04   Injury to trees
   
130.05   Posting
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages the property of another intentionally or recklessly;
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with the property of another so as to
endanger persons or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer a pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes a pecuniary loss
of $500 or more, but less than $5,000, or other such amounts as set out by the
Master Fee Schedule; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously or recklessly causes a
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $500, or other such amount as set out
by the Master Fee Schedule, or if his or her action results in no pecuniary
loss.
(Neb. RS 28-519) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
         (a)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
         (b)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power
infrastructure facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a
person who has the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE
FACILITY means a power plant, an electrical station or substation or any other
facility which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103
to support the generation, transmission or distribution of electricity and
which is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (B)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she enters or
remains in any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor;
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) above.
      (2)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she intentionally
causes an electronic device, such as an unmanned aircraft, to enter into, upon
or above the property of another, including such property owned by such person
and leased or rented to another, with the intent to observe another person
without his or her consent in a place of solitude or seclusion.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, UNMANNED AIRCRAFT means an
aircraft, including an aircraft commonly known as a drone, which is operated
without the possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the
aircraft.
(Neb. RS 28-521)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign or
other electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system
shall equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference, provided that the provisions herein shall not apply to the use of
necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference cannot
be reasonably and safely eliminated.
   (B)   Any person who so operates or causes to be operated any such
electrical apparatus that interferes habitually with radio and television
reception shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Provisions on nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 130.04 INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purposely or carelessly, and without
lawful authority, cut down or in any way injure, break down or destroy any
ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing on any land
belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the corporate
limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by them, shall make an application to
the governing body to do so, and the written permit of the governing body, in
accordance with its decision to allow such an action, shall constitute the only
lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) (Ord. 295, passed 1-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the streets, sidewalks or public
grounds of the city for signs, signposts or the posting of handbills or
advertisements without the written permission of the City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.03   Assaults
   
131.04   Curfew
   
131.05   Disturbing the peace
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the city by clamor or noise, intoxication,
drunkenness or fighting in the streets or other public places or otherwise
violating the public peace by indecent or disorderly conduct or lewd or
lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent disorderly conduct, see Neb. RS 17-129
   Authority to regulate noise, riots and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.02 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 131.03 ASSAULTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether or not in a fight or scuffle
entered into by mutual consent, to:
   (A)   Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly cause bodily injury to another
person; or
   (B)   Threaten another in a menacing manner.
(Neb. RS 28-310) (Prior Code, § 131.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 CURFEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person 16 years of age or younger to loiter,
idle, wander, stroll, play, drive or be in or upon any of the streets, roads,
alleys, parks or public places in the city or to be in any vehicle upon the
streets, roads, alleys, parks of the city or to be in any places of public
amusement or recreation in said city between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and before
the hour of 6:00 a.m., unless such person is:
   (A)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult having the legal
care, custody or control of such person;
   (B)   Traveling in connection with some business purpose required by
employment;
   (C)   Attending a school or religious function; or
   (D)   Responding to an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 131.06) (Ord. 464-04, passed 10-25-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
132.01   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.02   Resisting arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon
   
132.03   False alarms
§ 132.01 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity.
(Neb. RS 28-610) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 RESISTING ARREST WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS WEAPON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the use of a deadly or
dangerous weapon, while intentionally preventing or attempting to prevent a
peace officer acting under color of his or her official authority from
effecting an arrest of the actor or another, to:
      (1)   Use or threaten to use physical force or violence against the peace
officer or another;
      (2)   Use any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
      (3)   Employ means requiring substantial force to overcome resistance to
effecting the arrest.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section if the
peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or
herself as a peace officer by showing his or her credentials to the person
whose arrest is attempted.
(Neb. RS 28-904) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 FALSE ALARMS.
   The city will charge and amount as set out by the Master Fee Schedule per
call exceeding three false fire or rescue alarms per location per calendar
year.
(Ord. 476-05, passed 9-26-2005)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Arson
   
133.02   Disturbing street or public grounds
   
133.03   Appliances in yard
   
133.04   Littering
   
133.05   Weed removal
Substance Offenses
   
133.20   Use of tobacco by persons under the age of 21
   
133.21   Sale of tobacco to persons under the age of 21
   
133.22   Misrepresentation by person under the age of 21 to obtain tobacco
   
133.23   Drinking alcohol in public
   
133.24   Controlled substances
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
133.35   Abandoned automobiles
Weapons Offenses
   
133.50   Discharge of firearms
   
133.51   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
Sex Offender Registration
   
133.65   Residency restrictions
 
   
133.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 133.01 ARSON.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally set fire to, burn,
cause to be burned or, by the use of any explosive, damage or destroy or cause
to be damaged or destroyed, any property of another without his or her consent,
other than a building as defined in Neb. RS 28-501 or occupied structure, if
the damages are less than an amount as set out by the Master Fee Schedule.
(Neb. RS 28-504) (Prior Code, § 133.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02 DISTURBING STREET OR PUBLIC GROUNDS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to remove, disturb or take
away from any street, alley or public grounds any dirt, earth, stones or other
materials forming a part of such street, alley or public grounds without first
having obtained written permission to do so from the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 133.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.03 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children, whether on private or public property, unless the person first
removes all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 133.04 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards or otherwise disposes of any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the offense
of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of that
type of material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to
so use the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for that purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes all waste material susceptible of being dropped,
deposited, discarded or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property
in the state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the motor
vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.05 WEED REMOVAL.
   (A)   It is hereby the duty of the Utility Superintendent or his or her duly
authorized agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the corporate
limits for growing weeds during the growing season, and if rank and noxious
weeds are found growing thereon, he or she shall notify the owner or occupant
thereof to cut down such weeds as close to the ground as can be practicably
done and keep the weeds cut thereon in like manner during the growing season
for weeds, provided that any weeds growing in excess of 12 inches on any
sidewalk space shall be considered a violation of this section.
   (B)   In the event that the owner of the lot or parcel of land abutting said
sidewalk space within the municipality is a nonresident of the municipality, or
cannot be found therein, the notice may be given to any person having the care,
custody or control of such lot or parcel of land. In the event that there can
be found no one within the municipality to whom notice can be given, it shall
be the duty of the Utility Superintendent or his or her agent to post a copy of
the notice on the premises and then to cut, or cause the weeds thereon to be
cut, as therein provided and report the cost thereof in writing to the City
Council. The cost shall then be audited and paid by the municipality, and the
amount thereof shall be assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a special
tax thereon and shall be collected as are other taxes of the municipality or
may be recovered by civil suit brought by the municipality against the owner of
the parcel of land. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the
county in which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by
law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the
last known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address
shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 133.04) (Ord. 266, passed 7-12-1976) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563
**** SUBSTANCE OFFENSES ****
§ 133.20 USE OF TOBACCO BY PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   (A)   Whoever, being a person under the age of 21 years, shall smoke
cigarettes or cigars, use electronic nicotine delivery systems or alternative
nicotine products or use tobacco in any form whatever in this city shall be
guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Any person charged with a violation of this section may be free from
prosecution if he or she furnishes evidence for the conviction of the person or
persons selling or giving him or her the cigarettes, cigars, electronic
nicotine delivery systems, alternative nicotine products or tobacco.
(Neb. RS 28-1418) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.21 SALE OF TOBACCO TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   (A)   Whoever shall sell, give or furnish in any way any tobacco in any form
whatever, or any cigars, cigarettes or cigarette paper, electronic nicotine
delivery systems or alternative nicotine products, to any person under 21 years
of age is guilty of an offense.
   (B)   (1)   In order to further the public policy of deterring licensees or
other persons from violating division (A) above, a person who is at least 15
years of age but under 21 years of age may assist a peace officer in
determining compliance with division (A) above if:
         (a)   The parent or legal guardian of the person has given written
consent for the person to participate in such compliance check if such person
is under 19 years of age;
         (b)   The person is an employee, a volunteer or an intern with a state
or local law enforcement agency;
         (c)   The person is acting within the scope of his or her assigned
duties as part of a law enforcement investigation;
         (d)   The person does not use or consume a tobacco product as part of
such duties; and
         (e)   The person is not actively assigned to a diversion program, is
not a party to a pending criminal proceeding or a proceeding pending under the
State Juvenile Code, Neb. RS 43-245 et seq., and is not on probation.
      (2)   Any person under the age of 21 years acting in accordance with and
under the authority of this division (B) shall not be in violation of Neb. RS
28-1427.
(Neb. RS 28-1419) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.22 MISREPRESENTATION BY PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF 21 TO OBTAIN TOBACCO.
   Except as provided in §
133.21(B), any person under the age of 21 years who obtains cigars, tobacco,
cigarettes or cigarette material, electronic nicotine delivery systems or
alternative nicotine products from a licensee hereunder by representing that he
or she is of the age of 21 years or over is guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1427) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.23 DRINKING ALCOHOL IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages in
the public streets, alleys, roads, highways or upon any property owned by the
municipality or other governmental subdivision thereof, or inside vehicles
while upon the public streets, alleys, roads or highways, in theatres, dance
halls or any other place in the public.
   (B)   The provisions hereof shall not apply to liquor establishments
licensed by the state.
(Prior Code, § 133.07) (Ord. 297, passed 1-2-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-186
§ 133.24 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of any
controlled substance for a purpose other than the treatment of a sickness or
injury as prescribed or administered by a practitioner or administered by a
person duly authorized by law to treat sick or injured human beings.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or to possess with intent
to use drug paraphernalia to manufacture, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise
introduce into the human body a controlled substance.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain any store, shop, warehouse,
dwelling house, building, vehicle, boat or place whatever which such person
knows or should know is resorted to by persons using controlled substances in
violation of the Uniform Controlled Substance Act, being Neb. RS 28-401 et
seq., for the purpose of using such substances or which is used for the keeping
of selling of the same in violation of the Act.
(Prior Code, § 133.08) (Ord. 436-02, passed 5-28-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-417 and 28-441
**** MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES ****
§ 133.35 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid “In
Transit” stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act, Neb.
RS 60-301 et seq., affixed thereto, for more than six hours on any public
property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without the permission of the owner, or after
permission of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without the permission of the owner, or after
permission of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A mobile home is an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley or park
or other state, county or city-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid “In Transit” stickers issued pursuant to
Neb. RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration
the condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, or in another amount as set out
by the Master Fee Schedule, title shall immediately vest in the city. Any
certificate of title issued under this division (B) to the city shall be issued
at no cost to the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) above, the city
shall make an inquiry concerning the last registered owner of such vehicle as
follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The city shall notify the last registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the city 30 days after the date such notice
was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) above
also notifies the city that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall also
be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall
be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
city:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the city will
retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) above, the city may retain for use, sell or auction the abandoned vehicle.
If the city has determined that the vehicle should be retained for use, the
city shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed, publish in a
newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an announcement that the
city intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use and that title will
vest in the city 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a city law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle
for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it
shall send a certified letter to each of the last registered owners, if any,
and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that the vehicle is in
the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle is no longer needed
for law enforcement purposes and that after 30 days, the agency will dispose of
the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (D) shall not apply to motor vehicles that are
subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division (E)
is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 through 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private
towing service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model and color of the vehicle and the name of the private
towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private towing
service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle that is towed away under this
subsection is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 through 52-605 and 60-2410 by the
private towing service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For the purpose of this section, a TRESPASSING VEHICLE is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.02)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in divisions
(A)(a)(5) or (A)(b)(4) above to be removed from public property in this city,
the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state agency
caused an abandoned vehicle described in divisions (A)(a)(1), (A)(a)(2), (A)(a)
(3) or (A)(a)(4) or (A)(b)(1), (A)(b)(2) or (A)(b)(3) above to be removed from
public property in this city, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the
city, which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the city’s
custody, less any expenses incurred by the city, shall be held by the city
without interest for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
city, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the city or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in divisions (A)(a)(1), (A)(a)(2), (A)(a)(3) or (A)(a)(4) or (A)(b)
(1), (A)(b)(2) or (A)(b)(3) above.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the city or appropriate state
agency shall destroy, deface or remove any part of a vehicle which is left
unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates affixed or
which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division (J) shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (K)   The last registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the city for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1911)
Penalty, see §
10.99
**** WEAPONS OFFENSES ****
§ 133.50 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol or other
fowling piece within the city, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 133.51 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
**** SEX OFFENDER REGISTRATION ****
§ 133.65 RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Findings and intent.
      (1)   The state legislature has found that certain sex offenders present
a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such person’s place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act, being Neb. RS 29-401 et seq.
      (2)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
      (3)   It is the intent of this section to serve the city’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city by creating certain areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual predators
cannot reside.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act, being Neb. RS 71-1908 through 71-1923, as currently existing or
hereafter amended.
      RESIDE. To sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include more than
one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
       RESIDENCE. A place where a person regularly sleeps, where a person has
established his or her home and where he or she is habitually present, and to
which, when he or she departs, he or she intends to return. A RESIDENCE may
include more than one location and may be mobile or transitory.
      SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
      SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in
Neb. RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to
the Sex Offender Registration Act, being Neb. RS 29-4001 et seq., or any person
required to register under a similar law of another state.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the
State Sex Offender Registration Act, or any person required to register under a
similar law of another state, who has a high risk of recidivism as determined
by the State Patrol under Neb. RS 29-4013, as amended from time to time, and
who has victimized a person 18 years of age or younger.
   (C)   Sexual predator residency restrictions; penalties; exceptions.
      (1)   Prohibited conduct.
         (a)   It is unlawful for any person who is subject to the State Sex
Offender Registration Act, classified as a sexual predator herein defined, or
similar requirement or law of any other state, to reside within 500 feet of any
child care facility or school as defined herein.
         (b)   For purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the
distance shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer property
line of the residence to the nearest outer boundary line of the school or child
care facility.
      (2)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
         (a)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
         (b)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved
from that residence; or
         (c)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or
child care facility triggering the restriction was established after the
initial date of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Prior Code, § 133.40) (Ord. 482-06, passed 5-22-2006; Ord. 606-23, passed 12-
26-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   The Sexual Predator Residency Restriction Act, see Neb. RS 29-4003 and 29-
4013
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates §
133.65 shall be punished as provided generally in the code.
(Prior Code, § 133.40) (Ord. 482-06, passed 5-22-2006)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Prostitution
   
134.02   Keeping a place of prostitution
   
134.03   Public indecency
   
134.04   Gambling
   
134.05   Theft
§ 134.01 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, any person who performs,
offers or agrees to perform any act of sexual contact or sexual penetration, as
those terms are defined in Neb. RS 28-318, with any person not his or her
spouse in exchange for money or other thing of value commits the offense of
prostitution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that
such person was a trafficking victim as defined in Neb. RS 28-830.
   (C)   (1)   If the law enforcement officer determines, after a reasonable
detention for investigative purposes, that a person suspected of or charged
with a violation of division (A) above is:
         (a)   A person engaging in those acts as a direct result of being a
trafficking victim as defined in Neb. RS 28-830, such person shall be immune
from prosecution for a prostitution offense; or
         (b)   A person under 18 years of age, such person shall be immune from
prosecution for a prostitution offense under this section and shall be subject
to temporary custody under Neb. RS 43-248 and further disposition under the
State Juvenile Code, Neb. RS 43-245 et seq.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer who takes a person under 18 years of age
into custody under this section shall immediately report an allegation of a
violation of Neb. RS 28-831 to the Department of Health and Human Services,
which shall commence an investigation within 24 hours under the Child
Protection and Family Safety Act, Neb. RS 28-710 et seq.
(Neb. RS 28-801) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 KEEPING A PLACE OF PROSTITUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have or exercise control over the use
of any place which offers seclusion or shelter for the practice of prostitution
and to knowingly grant or permit the use of such place for the purpose of
prostitution.
(Neb. RS 28-804) (Prior Code, § 132.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.03 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   A person 18 years of age or over commits the offense of public
indecency if such person performs or procures, or assists any other person to
perform, in a public place and where the conduct may reasonably be expected to
be viewed by members of the public:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration as defined in Neb. RS 28-318;
      (2)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with the intent to
affront or alarm any person; or
      (3)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the
same or opposite sex.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for an individual to
breast-feed a child in a public place.
(Neb. RS 28-806) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.04 GAMBLING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 28-
1101 shall be used.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of promoting gambling if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Advances or profits from any unlawful gambling activity by:
         (a)   Engaging in bookmaking;
         (b)   Receiving, in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme or
enterprise, any amount of money played in the scheme or enterprise in any one
day; or
         (c)   Betting something of value in an amount of $500 or more, or
another amount as set out by the Master Fee Schedule, with one or more persons
in one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1102 and 28-1103)
      (2)   Participates in unlawful gambling as a player by betting less than
$500 in any one day, or another amount as set out by the Master Fee Schedule.
(Neb. RS 28-1104)
   (C)   (1)   A person commits the offense of possession of a gambling device
if he or she manufactures, sells, transports, places, possesses or conducts or
negotiates any transaction affecting or designed to affect ownership, custody
or use of any gambling device knowing that it shall be used in the advancement
of unlawful gambling activity.
      (2)   The owner or operator of a retail establishment who is not a
manufacturer, distributor or seller of mechanical amusement devices as defined
under the Mechanical Amusement Device Tax Act, Neb. RS 77-3011 et seq., shall
have an affirmative defense to possession of a gambling device described in
division (C)(1) above if the device bears an unexpired mechanical amusement
device decal as required by such Act. However, such affirmative defense may be
overcome if the owner or operator had actual knowledge that operation of the
device constituted unlawful gambling activity at any time such device was
operated on the premises of the retail establishment.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division (C), any
mechanical game or device classified by the federal government as an illegal
gambling device and requiring a federal gambling device tax stamp as required
by the Internal Revenue Service in its administration of 26 U.S.C. §§ 4461 and
4462, amended July 1, 1965, by Pub. Law No. 89-44, is hereby declared to be
illegal.
(Neb. RS 28-1107)
   (D)   In any prosecution under this section, it shall be an affirmative
defense that the writing, paper, instrument or article possessed by the
defendant was neither used nor intended to be used in the advancement of an
unlawful gambling activity.
(Neb. RS 28-1108)
   (E)   Proof of possession of any gambling device shall be prima facie
evidence of possession thereof with knowledge of its contents and character.
(Neb. RS 28-1109)
   (F)   It shall be no defense to a prosecution under any provision of this
section relating to gambling that the gambling is conducted outside this city
and is not in violation of the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is
conducted.
(Neb. RS 28-1110)
   (G)   In addition to any other penalty, a sentencing court may order that
any money, securities, negotiable instruments, firearms, conveyances or
electronic communications devices as defined in Neb. RS 28-833, or any
equipment, components, peripherals, software, hardware or accessories related
to electronic communications devices or any gambling devices, be forfeited as a
part of the sentence imposed if it finds by clear and convincing evidence
adduced at a separate hearing in the same prosecution, conducted pursuant to
Neb. RS 28-1601, that any or all such property was derived from, used or
intended to be used to facilitate a violation of this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1111)
   (H)   In any prosecution for an offense defined in this section, when the
defendant’s status as a player constitutes an excusing condition, the fact that
the defendant was a player shall constitute an affirmative defense.
(Neb. RS 28-1112)
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
      (1)   Apply to or prohibit wagering on the results of horseraces by the
parimutuel or certificate method when conducted by licensees within the
racetrack enclosure at licensed horserace meetings;
      (2)   Prohibit or punish the conducting or participating in any bingo,
lottery by the sale of pickle cards, lottery, raffle or gift enterprise when
conducted in accordance with the State Bingo Act, Neb. RS 9-201 et seq., the
State County and City Lottery Act, Neb. RS 9-601 et seq., the State Lottery and
Raffle Act, Neb. RS 9-401 et seq., the State Pickle Card Lottery Act, Neb. RS
9-301 et seq., the State Small Lottery and Raffle Act, Neb. RS 9-501 et seq.,
the State Lottery Act, Neb. RS 9-801 et seq. or Neb. RS 9-701; or
      (3)   Apply to or prohibit the operation of games of chance, whether
using a gambling device or otherwise, by authorized gaming operators within
licensed racetrack enclosures or the participation or playing of such games of
chance, whether participated in or played using a gambling device or otherwise,
by individuals 21 years of age or older within licensed racetrack enclosures as
provided in the State Racetrack Gaming Act, Neb. RS 9-1101 et seq.
(Neb. RS 28-1113)
   (J)   In any prosecution under this section in which it is necessary to
prove the occurrence of a sporting event, a published report of its occurrence
in any daily newspaper, magazine or other periodically printed publication of
general circulation shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the occurrence of the event.
(Neb. RS 28-1117)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.05 THEFT.
   (A)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   The definitions found in Neb. RS 28-509 shall apply; and
      (2)   The offenses described in divisions (B) through (G) shall exist
when the value of the thing involved is under $500, or another amount as set
out by the Master Fee Schedule.
   (B)   (1)   A person commits theft if he or she takes or exercises control
over movable property of another with the intent to deprive him or her thereof.
      (2)   A person commits theft if he or she transfers immovable property of
another or any interest therein with the intent to benefit himself or herself
or another not entitled thereto.
      (3)   Except as provided for rental or lease of a motor vehicle in Neb.
RS 28-511(4), it shall be presumed that a lessee’s failure to return leased or
rented movable property to the lessor after the expiration of a written lease
or written rental agreement is done with intent to deprive if such lessee has
been mailed notice by certified mail that such lease or rental agreement has
expired and he or she has failed within ten days after such notice to return
such property.
(Neb. RS 28-511)
   (C)   A person commits theft if he or she obtains property of another by
deception as defined in Neb. RS 28-512.
(Neb. RS 28-512)
   (D)   (1)   A person commits theft if he or she obtains property of another
by threatening to:
         (a)   Inflict bodily injury on anyone or commit any other criminal
offense;
         (b)   Accuse anyone of a criminal offense;
         (c)   Expose any secret tending to subject any person to hatred,
contempt or ridicule or to impair his or her credit or business repute;
         (d)   Take or withhold action as an official or cause an official to
take or withhold action;
         (e)   Bring about or continue a strike, boycott or other collective
unofficial action, if the property is not demanded or received for the benefit
of the group in whose interest the actor purports to act; or
         (f)   Testify or provide information or withhold testimony or
information with respect to another’s legal claim or defense.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution based on divisions (D)
(1)(b), (D)(1)(c) or (D)(1)(d) above that the property obtained by threat of
accusation, exposure, lawsuit or other invocation of official action was
honestly claimed as restitution or indemnification for harm done in the
circumstances to which such accusation, exposure, lawsuit or other official
action relates or as compensation for property or lawful services.
(Neb. RS 28-513)
   (E)   A person who comes into control of property of another that he or she
knows to have been lost, mislaid or delivered under a mistake as to the nature
or amount of the property or the identity of the recipient commits theft if,
with intent to deprive the owner thereof, he or she fails to take reasonable
measures to restore the property to a person entitled to have it.
(Neb. RS 28-514)
   (F)   (1)   A person commits theft if he or she obtains services, which he
or she knows are available only for compensation, by deception or threat or by
false token or other means to avoid payment for the service. Services include
labor, professional service, telephone service, electric service, cable
television service or other public service, accommodation in hotels,
restaurants or elsewhere, admission to exhibitions and use of vehicles or other
movable property. When compensation for service is ordinarily paid immediately
upon the rendering of such service, as in the case of hotels and restaurants,
refusal to pay or absconding without payment or offer to pay gives rise to a
presumption that the service was obtained by deception as to intention to pay.
      (2)   A person commits theft if, having control over the disposition of
services of others to which he or she is not entitled, he or she diverts such
services to his or her own benefit or to the benefit of another not entitled
thereto.
(Neb. RS 28-515)
   (G)   A person commits theft if he or she receives, retains or disposes of
stolen movable property of another knowing that it has been stolen, or
believing that it has been stolen, unless the property is received, retained or
disposed with intention to restore it to the owner.
(Neb. RS 28-517)
(Prior Code, § 132.05)
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
steal any money, goods or chattels of any kind whatever. Any person who shall
steal property of any kind, whether the same be entirely in money or property
of the value of less than $300 shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 28-512, 28-514)
(Ord. 265, passed 7-12-1976)
CHAPTER 135: ILLEGAL ALIENS
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Harboring illegal aliens
   
135.03   Issuance of occupancy licenses
   
135.04   Enforcement of harboring and occupancy provisions
   
135.05   Business licenses, contracts or grants; the E-Verify Program
   
135.06   Construction
 
   
135.99   Penalty
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Any person, group of persons, partnership or corporation
that engages in any activity, enterprise, profession or occupation for
financial gain, benefit or livelihood, and shall include all such activities,
enterprises, professions or occupations, whether preformed in one or more
establishments by one or more corporate or other organizational units,
including departments or establishments operated through leasing arrangements,
whether for profit or not-for-profit. The term BUSINESS ENTITY shall include,
but not be limited to, contractors, subcontractors, self-employed individuals,
partnerships and corporations. The term BUSINESS ENTITY shall include both
business entities that are required to obtain a license or permit to conduct
business in the city and businesses that are not required to obtain a license
or permit to conduct business in the city.
   BUSINESS LICENSE. Any license, permit, occupation tax registration, business
registration or registration certification issued to a business entity by the
city, including, but not limited to, all such licenses and permits described in
Title XI.
   CITY. The City of Scribner, Nebraska.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single residential unit with living facilities for one or
more persons, including space for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, bathing
and sanitation, whether furnished or unfurnished, that is let or rented for
valuable consideration. There may be more than one rental unit on a premises.
In a multi-family residence or apartment building, each residential unit or
apartment constitutes a separate DWELLING UNIT. The term DWELLING UNIT does not
include a dormitory room at a post-secondary educational institution, a room at
a shelter for the homeless or the abused or a hotel room.
   E-VERIFY PROGRAM. The electronic verification of employment authorization
program of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigration Responsibility Act of
1996, Pub. Law No. 104-208, U.S.C. Title B, § 1324a, and operated by the United
States Department of Homeland Security (or a successor program established by
the federal government).
   ILLEGAL ALIEN. An alien who is not lawfully present in the United States,
according to the terms of 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq. The city shall not conclude
that an individual is an ILLEGAL ALIEN unless and until an authorized
representative of the city has verified with the federal government, pursuant
to 8 U.S.C. § 1373(c), such individual’s immigration status.
   LESSOR. A person who leases or rents a dwelling unit as or on behalf of a
landlord.
   OCCUPANT. A person, age 18 or older, who resides at a dwelling unit. A
temporary guest of an occupant is not an OCCUPANT for the purposes of this
chapter.
   SYSTEMATIC ALIEN VERIFICATION FOR ENTITLEMENTS (SAVE) PROGRAM. The
electronic program created pursuant to the Immigration Reform and Control Act
of 1986 (IRCA), Pub. Law No. 99-603, and the Personal Responsibility and Work
Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (PRWORA), Pub. Law No. 104193, which
enables a federal, state or local government entity to confirm with the United
States Department of Homeland Security an alien’s immigration status (or a
successor program or method of confirmation of immigration status established
by the federal government).
   UNAUTHORIZED ALIEN. An alien who does not have authorization of employment
in the United States, as defined by 8 U.S.C. § 1324a(h)(3). The city shall not
conclude that an individual is an UNAUTHORIZED ALIEN unless and until an
authorized representative of the city has verified with the federal government,
pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1373(c), such individual’s lack of authorization of
employment in the United States.
   UNLAWFULLY PRESENT IN THE UNITED STATES. Unlawfully present in the United
States according to the terms of 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq. The city shall not
conclude that an alien is UNLAWFULLY PRESENT IN THE UNITED STATES unless and
until an authorized representative of the city has verified with the federal
government, pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1373(c), such alien’s immigration status.
   WORK. Any job, task, employment, labor, personal services or any other
activity for which compensation is provided, expected or due, including, but
not limited to, all activities conducted by business entities.
(Ord. 571-18, passed 12-17-2018)
§ 135.02 HARBORING ILLEGAL ALIENS.
   It is unlawful for any person or business entity that owns a dwelling unit
in the city to harbor an illegal alien in the dwelling unit, knowing or in
reckless disregard of the fact that an alien has come to, entered or remains in
the United States in violation of law, unless such harboring is otherwise
expressly permitted by federal law.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, to let, lease or rent a dwelling unit
to an illegal alien, knowing or in reckless disregard of the fact that an alien
has come to, entered or remains in the United States in violation of law, shall
be deemed to constitute harboring. To suffer or permit the occupancy of the
dwelling unit by an illegal alien, knowing or in reckless disregard of the fact
that an alien has come to, entered or remains in the United States in violation
of law, shall also be deemed to constitute harboring.
   (B)   An occupant may not enter into a contract for the rental or lease of a
dwelling unit in the city unless the occupant is either a U.S. citizen or
national, or an alien lawfully present in the United States according to the
terms of 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq. An occupant who is neither a U.S. citizen or
national, nor an alien lawfully present in the United States, who enters into
such a contract shall be deemed to have breached a condition of the lease. An
occupant who is an alien who, subsequent to the beginning of his or her lease,
becomes unlawfully present in the United States shall be deemed to have
breached a condition of the lease.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply only to contracts to let, lease or rent
dwelling units that are entered into and tenancies that begin after the date
that this chapter becomes effective.
   (D)   The legal obligations imposed by this section shall be enforced
through the process described in §§
135.03 and
135.04.
(Ord. 571-18, passed 12-17-2018) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.03 ISSUANCE OF OCCUPANCY LICENSES.
   (A)   Prior to occupying any leased or rented dwelling unit, each occupant,
age 18 or older, must obtain an occupancy license.
   (B)   It is the occupant’s responsibility to submit an occupancy license
application to the City Police Department, pay a fee in an amount as set out by
the Master Fee Schedule to the city and obtain an occupancy license. If there
are multiple occupants seeking to occupy a single rental unit, each occupant
must obtain his or her own license. An applicant for an occupancy license may
designate the owner or manager of the dwelling unit as his or her agent to
collect the required information and submit the required application form(s),
signed by the applicant, to the City Police Department on the applicant’s
behalf. The city may establish a procedure whereby an applicant (or designated
owner or agent) may submit the required application form(s), signed by the
applicant, via facsimile or website portal.
   (C)   The owner or manager of any dwelling unit must notify each prospective
occupant of this requirement and shall not permit occupancy of a dwelling unit
unless the occupant first obtains an occupancy license.
   (D)   Each occupancy license is valid only for the occupant for as long as
the occupant continues to occupy the dwelling unit for which such license was
applied. Any relocation to a different dwelling unit requires a new occupancy
license.
   (E)   Applications for occupancy licenses shall be made upon forms furnished
by the city for such purposes and shall require the following information:
      (1)   Full legal name of occupant;
      (2)   Mailing address of occupant;
      (3)   Address of dwelling unit for which occupant is applying, if
different from mailing address;
      (4)   Name and business address of dwelling unit owner or manager;
      (5)   Date of lease commencement;
      (6)   Date of birth of occupant;
      (7)   Occupant’s country or citizenship;
      (8)   Full legal name and date of birth of each minor dependent residing
with occupant; and
      (9)   (a)   In cases in which the applicant is a United States citizen or
national, a signed declaration that the applicant is a United States citizen or
national on a form provided by the city, which notifies the applicant that
knowingly making any false statement or claim that he or she is, or at any time
has been, a citizen or national of the United States, with the intent to obtain
a state benefit or service is a crime under 18 U.S.C. § 1015(e); or
         (b)   In cases in which the applicant is not a United States citizen
or national, an identification number assigned by the federal government that
the occupant believes establishes his or her lawful presence in the United
States (examples include, but are not limited to: resident alien card number;
visa number; “A” number; 1-94 registration number; employment authorization
number; or any other number on a document issued by the U.S. government). If
the alien does not know of any such number, he or she shall so declare. Such a
declaration shall be sufficient to satisfy this requirement.
   (F)   Upon receipt of a complete, signed application and the payment of the
application fee as set forth above, the city shall immediately issue an
occupancy license. The city shall not deny an occupancy license to any occupant
who submits a completed application and pays the application fee.
   (G)   All information contained in occupancy license applications shall be
maintained as confidential by the city, except that the information provided on
an application may be disclosed to other government entities where authorized
by law, pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1373.
   (H)   It shall be a violation of this section for a lessor to lease or rent
a dwelling unit without obtaining and retaining a copy of the occupancy license
of every known occupant of the dwelling unit.
   (I)   It shall be a violation of this section for a lessor to lease a
dwelling unit without including in the terms of the lease a provision stating
that occupancy of the premises by a person, age 18 or older, who does not hold
a valid occupancy license constitutes an event of default under the lease.
   (J)   It shall be a violation of this section for a landlord or any agent of
a landlord with authority to initiate proceedings to terminate a lease or
tenancy to knowingly permit an occupant to occupy a dwelling unit without a
valid occupancy license. It is a defense to a prosecution under this division
(J) that the landlord or agent has commenced and diligently pursued such steps
as may be required under the applicable law and lease provisions to terminate
the lease or tenancy.
   (K)   The lease or rental of a dwelling unit without obtaining and retaining
a copy of the occupancy license of every known occupant, age 18 or older, shall
be a separate violation for each occupant in a dwelling unit for which no
license is obtained and retained, and for each day of such occupancy, beginning
on the forty-sixth day after the date of a revocation notice under §
135.05 .
(Ord. 571-18, passed 12-17-2018) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.04 ENFORCEMENT OF HARBORING AND OCCUPANCY PROVISIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the City Police
Department (hereinafter “Department”) shall enforce the requirements of this
chapter as follows.
   (A)   Promptly after issuance of an occupancy license to any occupant who
has not declared himself or herself to be either a citizen or a national of the
United States, the Department shall, pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1373(c), request
the federal government to ascertain whether the occupant is an alien lawfully
present in the United States. The Department shall submit to the federal
government the identity and immigration status information contained on the
application for the occupancy license, along with any other information
requested by the federal government. The Department may enter into a memorandum
of understanding to use the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements
(SAVE) Program operated by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security or utilize
any other process or system designated by the federal government.
   (B)   If the federal government reports that the occupant is not lawfully
present in the United States, the Department shall send a deficiency notice to
the occupant, at the address of the dwelling unit shown on the application for
occupancy license. The deficiency notice shall state that on or before the
sixtieth day following the date of the notice, the occupant may seek to obtain
a correction of the federal government’s records and/or provide additional
information establishing that the occupant is lawfully present in the United
States. If the occupant provides such additional information, the Department
shall promptly submit that information to the federal government. The occupant
may also submit information directly to the federal government.
   (C)   If the federal government notifies the Department that it is unable to
conclusively ascertain the immigration status of the occupant, or that the
federal government’s ascertainment of immigration status is tentative, the
Department shall take no further action until final ascertainment of the
immigration status of the occupant is received from the federal government. The
Department shall not attempt to make an independent determination of any
occupant’s immigration status. If the federal government notifies the
Department that more information is required before the federal government can
issue a final ascertainment of the occupant’s immigration status, or that the
occupant may contest the federal government’s ascertainment of status, the
Department shall notify the occupant accordingly.
   (D)   No earlier than the sixty-first day after a deficiency notice has been
sent to an occupant, the Department shall again make an inquiry to the federal
government seeking to ascertain the immigration status of the occupant. If the
federal government reports that the occupant is an alien who is not lawfully
present in the United States, the Department shall send a revocation notice to
both the occupant and the lessor. The revocation notice shall revoke the
occupant’s occupancy license effective 45 days after the date of the revocation
notice.
   (E)   The terms of this section shall be applied uniformly, and enforcement
procedures shall not differ based on a person’s race, ethnicity, religion or
national origin.
   (F)   Judicial review shall also be available as follows.
      (1)   Any landlord or occupant who has received a deficiency notice or a
revocation notice may seek pre-deprivation or post-deprivation judicial review
of the notice by filing suit against the city in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      (2)   In the event that such a suit is filed prior to or within 15 days
after the date of the relevant revocation notice, if any, revocation shall be
automatically stayed until final conclusion of judicial review.
      (3)   The landlord or occupant may seek judicial review of the question
of whether the Department complied with the provisions of this chapter or other
relevant provisions of federal, state or city law, or the question of whether
the occupant is an alien not lawfully present in the United States, or of both
such questions.
      (4)   In a suit for judicial review in which the question of whether the
occupant is an alien not lawfully present in the United States is to be
decided, that question shall be determined under federal law. In answering the
question, the court shall defer to any conclusive ascertainment of immigration
status by the federal government.
      (5)   The court may take judicial notice of any ascertainment of the
immigration status of the occupant previously provided by the federal
government. The court may, either sua sponte or at the request of a party,
request the federal government to provide, in automated, documentary or
testimonial form, a new ascertainment of the immigration status of the occupant
pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1373(c). The most recent ascertainment of the
immigration status of an individual by the federal government shall create a
rebuttable presumption as to the individual’s immigration status.
(Ord. 571-18, passed 12-17-2018)
§ 135.05 BUSINESS LICENSES, CONTRACTS OR GRANTS; THE E-VERIFY PROGRAM.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discourage business entities from
knowingly recruiting, hiring for employment or continuing to employ any person
who is an unauthorized alien to perform work within the city.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the hiring of an independent
contractor by a business entity or to the intermittent hiring of casual labor
for domestic tasks customarily performed by the residents of a dwelling. Such
independent contractors or laborers are not employees within the meaning of
this section. This section shall be interpreted to be fully consistent with 8
U.S.C. § 1324a and with all other applicable provisions of federal law.
   (C)   (1)   An authorized representative of any business entity that applies
for any business license or permit in the city, or is awarded a contract for
work to be performed in the city, or applies for any grant or loan from the
city, shall be required to execute an affidavit to the effect that the business
entity does not knowingly employ any person who is an unauthorized alien.
      (2)   The business entity shall also provide documentation confirming
that the business entity has registered in the E-Verify Program. Compliance
with this section shall be a condition of any license or permit granted by the
city, any contract awarded by the city and of any grant or loan given by the
city.
   (D)   All agencies of the city shall register in the E-Verify Program and
use the E-Verify Program to verify the authorization of employment in the
United States of each employee hired after such registration.
   (E)   Every business entity employing one or more employees and performing
work within the city shall register in the E-Verify Program within 60 days
after the effective date of this chapter and shall use the E-Verify Program to
verify the authorization of employment in the United States of each employee
hired after such registration.
   (F)   Any business entity employing one or more employees that begins
performing work within the city later than 60 days after the effective date of
this chapter shall register in the E-Verify Program prior to commencing any
work within the city and shall use the E-Verify Program to verify the
authorization of employment in the United States of each employee hired after
such registration.
   (G)   In the enforcement of this section, at no point shall any city
official attempt to make an independent determination of the authorization of
employment in the United States of any individual employed by a private
business entity in the city.
   (H)   This section shall be enforced by the City Attorney as follows.
      (1)   (a)   If a business entity possesses a license, permit, contract,
loan or grant issued by the city and violates this section, by failing to
register in the E-Verify Program and verify the authorization of employment in
the United States of each employee hired after such registration, the business
entity shall be tried at a public hearing before the City Council.
         (b)   Due process, including notice, the opportunity to present
evidence and to be heard and the right to appeal to the county district court,
shall be accorded to all parties. If the City Council determines that a person
or business entity has violated this section, it may, according to the terms of
such license, permit, contract, loan or grant, revoke the license, cancel the
contract, recall the grant or accelerate the loan and institute an action to
collect any sums due.
      (2)   The City Attorney may bring a civil action against any business
entity suspected of violating this section, by failing to register in the E-
Verify Program and verify the authorization of employment in the United States
of each employee hired after such registration, in a court of competent
jurisdiction in the county. The City Attorney may seek injunctive relief
compelling the business entity to comply with this section.
   (I)   The following judicial review shall also be available.
      (1)   Any business entity that is subjected to enforcement under this
chapter may seek pre-deprivation or post-deprivation judicial review of the
enforcement of this chapter with respect to such business entity in any court
of competent jurisdiction. While such judicial review is occurring, any actions
by the city to revoke a license, permit, contract, loan or grant issued by the
city shall be stayed.
      (2)   Any business entity or employee subject to the terms of this
chapter may seek judicial review of the question of whether the city has
complied with the provisions of this chapter or other relevant provisions of
federal, state or city law in the county court, or in any other court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 571-18, passed 12-17-2018)
§ 135.06 CONSTRUCTION.
   The requirements and obligations of this section shall be implemented in a
manner fully consistent with federal law regulating immigration and protecting
the civil rights of all citizens, nationals and aliens.
(Ord. 571-18, passed 12-17-2018)
§ 135.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
135.03 shall be subject to a fine in an amount as set out by the Master Fee
Schedule for each such violation, upon conviction in the county court.
(Ord. 571-18, passed 12-17-2018)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
   
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Termite inspections
   
150.02   Fences
Building Permits
   
150.15   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.16   Building permit fees
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.30   Determination and definitions
   
150.31   Building Inspector
   
150.32   Standards
   
150.33   Unlawful maintenance
   
150.34   Nuisance; procedure
   
150.35   Failure to comply
   
150.36   Disputes
   
150.37   Appeal
   
150.38   Immediate hazard
 
   
150.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 150.01 TERMITE INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Any building physically removed from a foundation outside of the city
corporate limits for relocation to a lot within the corporate limits shall be
inspected for termite damage prior to any such relocation. Such inspection
shall be at the owner’s expense.
   (B)   Any qualified pest control agency or individual shall make such
inspection. Should any evidence of termites or termite damage be present, the
termites shall be exterminated and the damage shall be repaired at the owners
expense.
   (C)   A written termite inspection report or statement shall be required
before any relocated building may be placed on a permanent foundation within
the city corporate limits. Such statement shall be presented to the City Clerk
at the time of making the required application for a building permit. Such
statement will bear the pest control agency or individual’s seal or signature
and shall attest that no termites are present or that any termites discovered
have been treated.
   (D)   No building permit shall be issued until such time that the inspection
report or statement has been presented to the City Clerk, and in no event shall
a building be allowed to enter the city corporate limits without such written
report or statement.
   (E)   In no event shall this section be interpreted to include buildings
which have never before been secured to a foundation, footings, poles, stakes
or tie downs.
(Ord. 269, passed 7-5-1977) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 FENCES.
   From and after the effective date herein, all fences constructed in the
corporate limits of the city shall be constructed of wood, chain-link fence
material, PVC or resin material or stone or masonry material, including pre-
manufactured sections of panelized fencing kits. Wood fences shall utilize new
building lumber only. Solid metal and used wood are specifically prohibited in
fence construction. Any such solid metal or used wood fences now constructed
and maintained are determined a nuisance and shall be removed within 30 days of
the passage of this section. The good/finished side shall be facing out.
(Ord. 596-22, passed 8-29-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
**** BUILDING PERMITS ****
§ 150.15 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair
of any building within the city’s jurisdiction and the improvement is more than
a certain amount as set out by the Master Fee Schedule, a duplicate of such
permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 150.10) (Ord. 456-04, passed 2-23-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1743
§ 150.16 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   No structure (residential, commercial, industrial or any class) within
the corporate limits of the city, shall be constructed, altered, repaired,
added to or moved until the owner of same shall have first made written
application on forms prescribed by said city for a permit (entitled building
permit) for such construction, alteration, repair, addition or movement.
   (B)   The schedule of fees shall be available in the office of the City
Clerk, shall be applicable and the same shall accompany the application for
building permit when such application is submitted to the City Clerk. All such
fees shall be payable to the city.
(Ord. 245, passed 7-7-1975; Ord. 361, passed 6-26-1989; Ord. 363, passed 10-23-
1989; Ord. 395, passed 10-24-1994) Penalty, see §
150.99
**** DANGEROUS BUILDINGS ****
§ 150.30 DETERMINATION AND DEFINITIONS.
   Any buildings or structures which have any or all of the following defects
are hereby declared to be unsafe or dangerous buildings or structures and a
public nuisance:
   (A)   Having walls or other vertical structural members that list, lean or
buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center of
gravity falls outside the middle third of its base;
   (B)   Showing 33% or more of damage or deterioration of the supporting
member or members, exclusive of the foundation;
   (C)   With improperly distributed loads upon floors or roofs or in which the
same are overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe
for the purpose used;
   (D)   Damaged by fire, wind or other causes so as to have become dangerous
to life, safety or the general health and welfare of the occupants of the
people of the city;
   (E)   Have become dilapidated, decayed, unsafe, unsanitary or which so
utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to decent living that they are
unfit for human habitation or are likely to cause sickness or disease, so as to
work injury to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of those living
therein;
   (F)   Having light, air and sanitation facilities which are inadequate to
protect the health, safety or general welfare of human beings who live or may
live therein;
   (G)   Having inadequate facilities for egress in the case of fire or panic,
or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other means
of communication;
   (H)   Having parts thereof which are so attached that they may fall and
injure persons or property;
   (I)   Are unsafe, unsanitary or dangerous to the health, safety or general
welfare of the people of the city because of their condition;
   (J)   Having been inspected by the County Health Department or a
professional engineer appointed by the city which are, after inspection, deemed
to be in violation of any provision of the Health Department rules and
regulations or which are structurally unsafe or unsound as found by the
inspection of the professional engineer; and/or
   (K)   Existing in violation of any provision of this subchapter, any
provision of the Fire Prevention Code, any provision of the county health rules
and regulations or other applicable provisions of city ordinances, including,
but not limited to, the building code adopted by the city.
(Ord. 548-16, passed 2-26-2016) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   A specially designated Building Inspector, his or her authorized
representatives or a professional engineer shall, at the direction of the City
Council:
   (A)   Inspect any building, wall or structure about which complaints are
filed by any person to the effect that a building, wall or structure is or may
be existing in a dangerous or unsafe manner;
   (B)   Inspect any building or structure within the jurisdictional area of
the city for the purpose of determining whether any conditions exist which
render such place a dangerous or unsafe building or structure within the terms
of this subchapter;
   (C)   Report to the City Council the results of the inspection; and
   (D)   Appear at all hearings and testify as to the condition of the unsafe
or dangerous building or structure.
(Ord. 548-16, passed 2-26-2016)
§ 150.32 STANDARDS.
   In the event that it is determined that any building or structure is unsafe
or dangerous, the following standards shall be followed in substance in
determining whether the structure or building should be repaired, vacated or
demolished.
   (A)   If the unsafe or dangerous building or structure can reasonably be
repaired so that it will no longer exist in violation of any of the terms or
provisions of this subchapter, it shall be ordered to be repaired.
   (B)   If the unsafe or dangerous building is in such condition as to make it
dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of its occupants, it
shall be ordered to be vacated.
   (C)   (1)   In any case where an unsafe or dangerous building or structure
cannot be repaired so that it will no longer exist in violation of the terms or
provisions of this subchapter, it shall be demolished.
      (2)   In all cases where the unsafe or dangerous building is a fire
hazard existing or erected in violation of the applicable fire codes and
regulations, or any other provision of an ordinance of this city, or statute of
the state, it shall be demolished.
(Ord. 548-16, passed 2-26-2016)
§ 150.33 UNLAWFUL MAINTENANCE.
   It is hereby determined unlawful to maintain a dangerous building within the
corporate limits of the city or within its zoning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 548-16, passed 2-26-2016) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.34 NUISANCE; PROCEDURE.
   If the specially designated Building Inspector or his or her representatives
or professional engineer finds that a building or structure is unsafe or
dangerous and a nuisance, the City Council shall:
   (A)   Notify the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent or other persons
having an interest in the building or structure that it has been found to be an
unsafe or dangerous building. The notice will indicate whether the owner must
vacate, repair or demolish the building or structure;
   (B)   Set forth in the notice a description of the building or structure
deemed unsafe or dangerous, accompanied by a statement of the particulars which
make the building or structure unsafe or dangerous and an order requiring the
same to be put in such condition as to comply with the terms of this subchapter
within such length of time, not exceeding 30 days, as is reasonable; and
   (C)   Direct a city employee to place a sign on the building or structure
found to be unsafe or dangerous on its exterior near the main entrance which
shall set forth that the building or structure is unsafe or dangerous for
occupancy and use.
(Ord. 548-16, passed 2-26-2016)
§ 150.35 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   In case any owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent or other person having
an interest in the building or structure shall fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with the notice by or on behalf of the city to repair, rehabilitate or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe or dangerous and a
public nuisance, and fails to request a hearing on such determination, the city
may proceed with the work specified in the notice to the property owner. A
statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted to the City Council,
which is authorized to levy the cost as a special assessment against the
property. Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and shall
be collected in the manner provided for special assessments under state
statutes.
(Ord. 548-16, passed 2-26-2016)
§ 150.36 DISPUTES.
   (A)   In the event that the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent or
other person having an interest in the building or structure disagrees with or
disputes the information contained in the notice, such person shall notify the
City Clerk with a written statement that sets forth the reasons for the
disagreement or dispute and the relief requested. This written request shall be
made within 14 days of the mailing of the notice as provided herein. If written
notice is received by the City Clerk within 14 days of the mailing or delivery
of notice, a hearing shall be held before the City Council, either at a special
meeting or at a regularly scheduled monthly meeting. The Clerk shall notify the
person requesting the hearing, in writing, of the time, place and date of such
hearing.
   (B)   The hearing before the City Council shall be informal and not governed
by the State Rules of Evidence. Such hearing shall be quasi-judicial in nature,
and its decision shall be based on the evidence presented at the hearing. The
person requesting the hearing may be represented by legal counsel or other
representative, may present witnesses and offer evidence and may examine and
copy, at his or her own expense and not less than three business days before
the hearing, the records of the city regarding the inspection and notice. The
City Council need not make a written finding of fact and may make its
pronouncement orally at the hearing. The decision of the Council shall be final
unless appealed. Failure of the person to attend the hearing shall relieve the
Council of any further procedures before action is taken as set forth in a
notice.
(Ord. 548-16, passed 2-26-2016)
§ 150.37 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City Council may appeal the
decision to the county district court. This appeal shall and must be taken
within 30 days of the pronouncement of the Council’s decision.
(Ord. 548-16, passed 2-26-2016)
§ 150.38 IMMEDIATE HAZARD.
   In the event the building constitutes an immediate hazard to the life or
safety of any persons and must be demolished to protect their health or safety,
the specially appointed Building Inspector or professional engineer designated
by the City Council shall report such facts to the Council. Upon receipt of
such report, the city, by and through the Council, may immediately contract for
the immediate demolition of the unsafe or dangerous building without requiring
bids. The cost of such emergency vacation and demolition of unsafe or dangerous
buildings or structures shall be levied, equalized and assessed, as are other
special assessments.
(Ord. 548-16, passed 2-26-2016)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or other legal entity maintaining a dangerous
building within the corporate limits of the city or its zoning jurisdiction, as
provided in §§
150.30 through
150.38, shall be guilty of violation of §§
150.30 through
150.38 and shall be fined in a sum not to exceed an amount as set out by the
Master Fee Schedule. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 548-16, passed 2-26-2016)
CHAPTER 151: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
City Property
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Streets, alleys, walks, malls and other improvements
   
151.03   Maintenance and control
   
151.04   Regulation of obstructions
   
151.05   Regulation of snow, ice and other encroachments
   
151.06   Poles, wires and pipelines
   
151.07   Guttering and eave spouts
   
151.08   Prohibited obstructions
   
151.09   Cutting into paving, curb or sidewalk
   
151.10   Heavy equipment
Sidewalks
   
151.25   Requirement to keep clean
   
151.26   Construction at owner’s initiative
   
151.27   Repair
Streets and Alleys
   
151.40   Grading, paving and other improvements
   
151.41   Improvements without petition or creation of district
   
151.42   Names and numbers
   
151.43   Driveway approaches
   
151.44   Excavation
   
151.45   Mixing concrete
   
151.46   Harmful liquids
**** CITY PROPERTY ****
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY SUPERINTENDENT. The city official with general charge,
direction, and control of streets and sidewalks.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curblines and adjacent
property lines.
§ 151.02 STREETS, ALLEYS, WALKS, MALLS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council may grade, partially or to an established
grade, change grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel,
macadamize, remacadamize, widen or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or re-
lay existing pavement, or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public grounds
or public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the city
corporate area and the area adjoining the city; construct or reconstruct
pedestrian walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler systems,
fountains, decorative water ponds, lighting systems and permanent facilities;
and construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space.
      (2)   These projects may be funded at public cost or by the levy of
special assessments on the property especially benefited in proportion to such
benefits, except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431.
   (B)   The City Council may by ordinance create improvement districts, to be
consecutively numbered, which may include two or more connecting or
intersecting streets, alleys or public ways, and may include two or more types
of the improvements authorized under this section in a single district in one
proceeding.
   (C)   All of the improvements which are to be funded by a levy of special
assessment on the property especially benefited shall be ordered as provided in
Neb. RS 17-510 through 17-512, except as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 17-509.
(Neb. RS 17-509)
   (D)   (1)   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of the record title
representing more than 60% of the front footage of the property directly
abutting upon the street, streets, alley, alleys, public way or public grounds
proposed to be improved, shall be presented and filed with the City Clerk,
petitioning therefore, the City Council shall be ordinance create a paving,
graveling or other improvement district or districts, and shall cause such work
to be done or such improvement to be made, and shall contract therefore, and
shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent
to such street, streets, alley or alleys, especially benefitted thereby in such
district in proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of such improvement.
      (2)   Whenever the City Council shall deem it necessary to make any
improvements allowed by statute, the City Council shall by ordinance create a
paving, graveling or other improvement district or districts, and after the
passage, approval and publication or posting of such ordinance, shall publish
notice of the creation of any such district or districts for six days in a
legal newspaper of the city, if a daily newspaper, or for two consecutive
weeks, if the same be a weekly newspaper.
      (3)   If the owners of the record title representing more than 50% of the
front footage of the property directly abutting on the street, streets, alley
or alleys to be improved, shall file with the City Clerk within 20 days after
the first publication of said notice, written objections to the creation of
such district or districts, said improvements shall not be made as provided in
said ordinance; but said ordinance shall be repealed. If said objections are
not filed against the district in the time and manner aforesaid, the City
Council shall forthwith cause such work to be done or such improvements to be
made, and shall contract therefore, and shall levy assessments on the lots and
parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such street, streets, alley or
alleys especially benefitted thereby in such district in proportion to such
benefits, to pay the cost of such improvements.
(Ord. 319, passed 3-30-1980)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on improvements, assessments and bonds, see Neb. RS 17-513
through 17-524, 18-1751, 19-2401 and 19-2408 through 19-2415
§ 151.03 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The City Council shall have the care, supervision and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within the city
and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 151.04 REGULATION OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   The city may remove all obstructions from the sidewalks, curbstones,
gutters and crosswalks at the expense of the person placing them there or at
the expense of the city and require and regulate the planting and protection of
shade trees in and along the streets and the trimming and removing of such
trees.
   (B)   The city may regulate the building of bulkheads, cellar and basement
ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways, awnings, hitching posts and
rails, lampposts, awning posts, all other structures projecting upon or over
and adjoining, and all other excavations through and under the sidewalks in the
city.
(Neb. RS 17-555)
§ 151.05 REGULATION OF SNOW, ICE AND OTHER ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall have the power to prevent and remove all encroachments,
including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon all sidewalks,
streets, avenues, alleys and other city property.
(Neb. RS 17-557)
   (B)   (1)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after five
days’ notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such
notice, to remove all encroachments from sidewalks as provided in division (A)
above, the city, through the proper officers, may cause such encroachments to
be removed, and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the Street Fund. The
City Council shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the
encroachment against the abutting property as a special assessment.
      (2)   The special assessment shall be known as a special sidewalk
assessment and, together with the cost of notice, shall be levied and collected
as a special assessment in addition to the general revenue taxes and shall be
subject to the same penalties as other special assessments and shall draw
interest from the date of the assessment. Upon payment of the assessment, the
assessment shall be credited to the Street Fund.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
§ 151.06 POLES, WIRES AND PIPELINES.
   (A)   Poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines and other appurtenances
of public service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the
streets, alleys and common grounds of the city. Application for location of
such appurtenances shall be made to the City Council in writing. Approval by
the Council shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipelines or other appurtenances shall at all times erect and locate
their appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be designated by
the Council.
   (B)   (1)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines and other
appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the Council. Any such removal or relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the Council and the City Clerk shall notify
any and all companies affected.
      (2)   The companies shall, within 24 hours after receiving notice, at
their own expense cause the poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines or
other appurtenances to be removed or relocated. The Council shall designate
another location as closely as possible where the appurtenances may be reset or
placed.
   (C)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines or other
appurtenances shall be reset, placed or erected in such a manner that they will
not interfere with the water system; the sewerage system; any poles, wires,
conduits, mains, lines or other appurtenances of any public utility; any
adjacent buildings; or travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines and appurtenances
shall be confined to the alleys of the city.
§ 151.07 GUTTERING AND EAVE SPOUTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any dwelling house
or business building within the limits of the city where the dwelling or
building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper guttering and
eave spouts to receive the wastewaters that collect on the sidewalks and
streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or business building
shall be constructed to drain into the alleys, or shall be buried beneath the
sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be impossible to
drain the eave spouts into the alley.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.08 PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Trees and shrubs growing upon or near the lot line, or upon
public ground, and interfering with the use or construction of any public
improvements shall be deemed an obstruction under this subchapter. Such trees
and shrubs and their roots may be removed by the municipality at the expense of
the owner of the property upon which the tree is located should the owner fail
or neglect, after notice, to do so.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation
to obstruct or encumber, by fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise,
any of the streets, alleys or sidewalks.
      (3)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed
when the owner or occupant of the adjacent property shall permit or suffer to
remain on any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery,
bush or similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line whether there
is a sidewalk abutting or adjoining such premises or not. It shall be the duty
of owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such
similar growth.
      (4)   Whenever any such growth is allowed to grow within two feet of the
lot line contrary to the provisions of this section, the City Council may pass
a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to remove such obstructions within
five days after having been served with a copy of the resolution by the
municipality stating that the municipality will do so and will charge the costs
thereof to the owner or occupant as a special assessment for improvements as
herein provided, or shall collect the same by civil suit brought in the name of
the municipality against the owner or occupant. It shall be the duty of an
owner or occupant engaged in construction of any building or improvement upon
or near the public ways and property to have all excavations or exposures of
any kind protected and guarded by suitable guards or barricades by day and by
warning lights at night.
      (5)   In the event of failure, neglect or refusal to comply with the
provisions of this section, it shall be the duty of the municipality to stop
all work upon the buildings and improvements until suitable guards are erected
and kept in the manner aforesaid.
      (6)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public
ground and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting
property, but so close to the lot line as to interfere with the making of any
public improvement or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility
wires or pipe shall be deemed an obstruction, and such trees, shrubs and roots
may be removed by the municipality pursuant to the procedure prescribed above.
      (7)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
   (B)   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction,
wrecking or repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a
sidewalk along any street, may occupy the public street space with such
building material and equipment as long as is necessary if such persons shall
make application to and receive a permit in writing from the municipal official
in charge of municipal streets to do so, provided that no permit for the
occupancy of the sidewalk space and more than one-third of the roadway of the
public space adjacent to the real estate on which said building is to be
constructed, erected, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired shall be granted, and
provided further that a suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained
within the public space included in the permit which shall be protected and
lighted in the manner required by the official issuing the permit.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 246, passed 10-6-1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555, 17-557 and 17-557.01
§ 151.09 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the City
Council. Before any person obtains a permit, he or she shall inform the City
Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it shall be the duty
of the Municipal Utility Superintendent to inspect the proposed place of entry
into the paving, sidewalk or curb.
   (B)   When cutting into any paving, curb or sidewalk, it shall be the duty
of the party to comply with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Council or the City Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the
opening made, he or she shall inform the Municipal Utility Superintendent, who
shall supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done in closing the
opening.
   (C)   It shall be discretionary with the Council to order the Municipal
Utility Superintendent, under the supervision and inspection of the City
Engineer or the committee of the Council on the streets and alleys, to do the
cutting and closing of the paving, curb or sidewalk and charge the costs
thereof to the party who obtained the permit. The Council may consent to the
cutting and closing of the paving, curb or sidewalk by the party holding the
permit.
   (D)   Before any permit is issued by the Council, the applicant for the
permit shall deposit with the City Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the
Council for all paving, curb or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a
per-square-foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by
the city for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb or sidewalk in the event
the work is done by the city. If the Council elects to require the applicant to
replace the paving, curb or sidewalk, the deposit shall be retained by the city
until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the Municipal Utility
Superintendent or of the committee of the Council on streets and alleys.
   (E)   In addition to making the deposit, the applicant shall, before any
permit is issued, execute a bond to the city with a good and sufficient surety,
to be approved by the Council, in a sum set by resolution.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.10 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or operate heavy equipment
across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing on
any unpaved street without first having protected such curb, gutter, bridge,
culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank sufficient in
strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such curb, gutter,
bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
71.11, it shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate or convey over or
across any paved street a vehicle, machine or implement with sharp discs or
with sharp wheels that bear upon the pavement; with wheels that have cutting
edges; with wheels that have lugs, any protruding parts or bolts thereon that
extend beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure
or damage any pavement, gutter or curb, except that where heavy vehicles,
structures and machines move along paved or unpaved streets, the city police
are hereby authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving
of such vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and allowed.
**** SIDEWALKS ****
§ 151.25 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner
of any vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet,
mud, ice or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any
snow, sleet, ice, mud or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk.
   (B)   Unless the City Council has provided otherwise, all sidewalks within
the Business District shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of
a storm unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the
night, in which case, the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the
following day, and sidewalks within the residential areas of the city shall be
cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.26 CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER’S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the City Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed.
   (B)   The Municipal Utility Superintendent shall issue the desired permit
unless good cause appears why the permit should be denied, except that if it is
desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed
location, grade or elevation, the Municipal Utility Superintendent shall submit
the application to the City Council for determination as to whether the permit
should be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
or cause to be constructed, such sidewalk at any other location, grade or
elevation than so designated by the city.
   (C)   All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the established grade
or elevation and if there is no established grade, then on the grade or
elevation indicated by the Municipal Utility Superintendent.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.27 REPAIR.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council may construct and repair sidewalks, or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks, in such manner as the Mayor and
City Council deems necessary and assess the expense thereof on the property in
front of which such construction or repairs are made, after having given
notice:
      (1)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality; and
      (2)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the occupant
in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such premises ten
days prior to the commencement of such repair or construction.
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   State that the governing body has ordered repair of the sidewalk;
      (2)   Contain the municipality’s estimate of the cost of the repair;
      (3)   Notify the property owner that he or she may, within ten days after
the date of publication of the notice, notify the municipality that he or she
will repair the sidewalk within 30 days after such date of publication; and
      (4)   Notify the property owner that if he or she fails to so notify the
municipality within the ten days or, having so notified the municipality, fails
to repair the sidewalk within the 30 days, the municipality will cause the
sidewalk to be repaired and the expense thereof to be assessed against the
property.
   (C)   (1)   Before the municipality imposes any special assessments for
sidewalk repair, a copy of the notice that is required to be published shall be
mailed to the last-known address of all nonresident property owners as shown on
the current tax rolls at the time such notice is first published.
      (2)   The Municipal Clerk shall mail the notice by certified mail with
return receipt requested.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division (C), NONRESIDENT PROPERTY OWNER
means any person or corporation whose residence and mailing address as shown on
the current tax rolls is outside the boundaries of the county in which the
property subject to assessment is located and who is a record owner of the
property.
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be repaired in conformity with such plans and
specifications as may be approved by the governing body.
   (E)   Assessments made under this section shall be made and assessed in the
manner provided in Neb. RS 17-524.
(Prior Code, § 94.22) (Ord. 467-05, passed 2-28-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-310, 13-312, 13-314 and 17-522
**** STREETS AND ALLEYS ****
§ 151.40 GRADING, PAVING AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The city has the power to provide for the grading and repair of any street,
avenue or alley and the construction of bridges, culverts and sewers. No
street, avenue or alley shall be graded unless the grading is ordered to be
done by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-508)
Statutory reference:
   Acquisition of additional land or easement, see Neb. RS 18-1705
   Boundary street with county or another municipality, see Neb. RS 18-2005
   Limited street improvement districts, see Neb. RS 19-2416
§ 151.41 IMPROVEMENTS WITHOUT PETITION OR CREATION OF DISTRICT.
   (A)   The municipality may, without petition or creating a street
improvement district, grade, curb, gutter and pave:
      (1)   Any portion of a street otherwise paved so as to make one
continuous paved street, but the portion to be so improved shall not exceed two
blocks, including intersections, or 1,325 feet, whichever is the lesser;
      (2)   Any unpaved street or alley which intersects a paved street for a
distance not to exceed one block on either side of such paved street; and
      (3)   Any side street or alley within its corporate limits connecting
with a major traffic street for a distance not to exceed one block from such
major traffic street.
   (B)   Such improvements may be performed upon any portion of a street or any
unpaved street or alley not previously improved to meet or exceed the minimum
standards for pavement set by the municipality for its paved streets. In order
to defray the costs and expenses of these improvements, the municipality may
levy and collect special taxes and assessments or issue paving bonds as
provided in Neb. RS 18-2003.
(Prior Code, § 94.41) (Ord. 318, passed 3-3-1980)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2001 through 18-2004
§ 151.42 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The City Council may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or provide
a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business purposes
and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the City Council
may require. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Utility Superintendent, upon
the erection of any new building, to assign the proper numbers to the building
and give notice to the owner and occupant of the same.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.43 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Municipal Utility Superintendent may require the owner of property
served by a driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-
of-way to repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken
or otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to
cause damage to or interfere with any street structure, including pavement or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of the owner or
the agent of the owner, directing the repair or replacement of the driveway
approach. If, within 30 days of mailing the notice, the property owner fails or
neglects to cause the repairs or replacements to be made, the Municipal Utility
Superintendent may cause the work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by the approach.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.44 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Municipal Utility Superintendent authorizing those excavations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.45 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.46 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Definitions
   
152.05   Land to which this chapter applies
   
152.06   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
152.07   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
152.08   Compliance
   
152.09   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.10   Interpretation
   
152.11   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.12   Establishment of zoning districts
   
152.13   Amendments to this chapter
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.25   Enforcement Officer; administration
   
152.26   Application for permit
   
152.27   Variance and appeals procedures
   
152.28   Conditions for variances
Standards for Floodplain Development
   
152.40   General standards
   
152.41   Flood Fringe Overlay District
   
152.42   Floodway Overlay District
   
152.43   Nonconforming use
 
   
152.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt zoning regulations designed to protect the public
health, safety and general welfare. The legislature, in Neb. RS 31-1001 through
31-1022, R.R.S. 1943, as amended, has further assigned the responsibility to
adopt, administer and enforce floodplain management regulations to the county,
city or village with zoning jurisdiction over the flood-prone area.
(Ord. 616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the city, are subject to inundation which results in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by:
      (1)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities; and/or
      (2)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to others, which are inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected
horn flood damages.
   (C)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards. This chapter uses a reasonable
method of analyzing flood hazards which consists of a series of interrelated
steps.
      (1)   Selection of a regulatory flood which is based upon engineering
calculations which permit a consideration of such flood factors as its expected
frequency of occurrence, the area inundated, and the depth of inundation. The
base flood is selected for this chapter. It is representative of large floods
which are reasonably characteristic of what can be expected to occur on the
particular streams subject to this chapter. It is in the general order of a
flood which could be expected to have a 1% chance of occurrence in any one
year, as delineated on the Federal Insurance Administration’s Flood Insurance
Study, and illustrative materials dated March 3, 2011, as amended.
      (2)   Calculation of water surface profiles based on a hydraulic
engineering analysis of the capacity of the stream channel and overbank areas
to convey the base flood.
      (3)   Computation of the floodway required to convey this flood without
increasing flood heights more than one foot at any point.
      (4)   Delineation of floodway encroachment lines within which no
obstruction is permitted which would cause any water surface increase along the
floodway profile.
      (5)   Delineation of floodway fringe, i.e., that area outside the
floodway encroachment lines, but which still is subject to inundation by the
base flood.
(Ord. 616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
152.02(A) by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
   (3)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for intended
purposes because of flood hazard; and
   (4)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
§ 152.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTUARIAL RATES or RISK PREMIUM RATES. are those rates established by the
Federal Insurance Administrator pursuant to individual community studies and
investigations which are undertaken to provide flood insurance in accordance
with 42 U.S.C. § 4014 and the accepted actuarial principles. Actuarial rates
include provisions for operating costs and allowances.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the City Administrator’s interpretation of
any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the flood plain within a community
subject to one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. Elevation indicated in the official flood plain study
as the elevation of the 100-year flood.
   BASE FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. an elevation two feet higher than the water
surface elevation of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with a
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water. “Channel flow,” thus, is that water which is flowing within the
limits of a confined channel.
   COMMUNITY. Any state, area or political subdivision thereof which has
authority to adopt and enforce flood plain management regulations for the areas
within its jurisdiction.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1,1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as “existing structures.”
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION . A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The usual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The area of the floodplain, outside of the floodway, that on
the average is likely to be flooded once every 100 years (i.e., that has a 1%
chance of flood occurrence in any one year).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the flood insurance study has delineated the flood hazard boundaries and the
zones establishing insurance rates applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the flood
boundary floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see definition of “flooding”).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plan, flood control works and flood management
regulations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM.
      (1)   Those physical structural works constructed specifically to modify
flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area within a community subject
to a “special flood hazard.” Such a system typically includes levees or dikes.
      (2)   These specialized modifying works are those constructed in
conformance with sound engineering standards,
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures, including utility and sanitary
facilities, which would preclude the entry of water, Structural components
shall have the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
the effect of buoyancy.
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, clogged bridge openings and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement), An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, “new construction”
means structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of the floodplain management regulation adopted by a community
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   100-YEAR FLOOD or BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood having a 1% chance of
annual occurrence.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district(s). The original zoning
district designation does not change.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved after December 31,1974, or on or after the community’s initial FIRM
dated November 1, 1979, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved on or before December 31, 1974, or before the community’s initial FIRM
dated November 1, 1979, whichever is later.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)    Four-hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348), includes
substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The “actual start” means the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, tire actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before “start of construction” of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCES. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
§ 152.05 LAND TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city
identified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) dated March 3, 2011, as
numbered and unnumbered A Zones (including AE, AO and AH Zones) and within the
Zoning Districts FW and FF established in §
152.12. In all areas covered by this chapter no development shall be permitted
except upon the issuance of a floodplain permit to develop, granted by the City
Council or its duly designated representative under such safeguards and
restrictions as the City Council or the designated representative may
reasonably impose for the promotion and maintenance of the general welfare,
health of the inhabitants of the community and where specifically noted in §§
152.40 through
152.42.
(Ord. 616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
§ 152.06 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of the Floodway and Flood Fringe Overlay Districts
shall be determined by scaling distances on the official zoning map or on the
flood insurance rate map or floodway map. Where interpretation is needed to the
exact location of the boundaries of the districts as shown on the official
zoning map, as for example where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make the necessary interpretation. In such cases where the interpretation is
contested, the Planning Commission will resolve the dispute. The regulatory
flood elevation for the point in question shall be the governing factor in
locating the district boundary on the land.
   (B)   The person contesting the location of the district boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to present his or her case to the Planning
Commission and to submit his or her own technical evidence, if he or she so
desires.
(Ord. 616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
§ 152.07 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   No person, firm or corporation shall initiate any floodplain development or
substantial improvement or cause the same to be done, without first obtaining a
separate permit for development, as defined in §
152.04.
(Ord.616-25, passed 12-22-2025) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 COMPLIANCE.
   Within identified special flood hazard areas of this community, no
development shall be located, extended, converted or structurally altered
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 616-25, passed 12-22-2025) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existent easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All
other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the
extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
§ 152.10 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
§ 152.11 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside
Floodway and Flood Fringe District boundaries or land uses permitted within
such districts will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall
not create liability on the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof
for any flood damages that may result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
§ 152.12 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Along watercourses where a floodway has been established, the mapped
floodplain areas are hereby divided into the two following districts: a
Floodway Overlay District (FW) and a Flood Fringe Overlay District (FF) as
identified in the flood insurance study No. 31053CV000C, dated April 17, 2020,
and accompanying map(s). Within these districts, all uses not meeting the
standards of this chapter and those standards of the underlying zoning district
shall be prohibited.
(Ord.616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
§ 152.13 AMENDMENTS TO THIS CHAPTER.
   The regulations, restrictions and boundaries set forth in this chapter may
from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed or appealed to reflect any
and all changes in the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq., provided, however, that no such action may be taken
until after a public hearing in relation thereto, at which parties in interest
and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and
place of such hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city. At least seven days shall elapse between the date of this
publication and the public hearing. A copy of such amendments will be provided
to the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The regulations of this chapter are
in compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations as
published in 44 C.F.R. and the State Floodplain Management Act, being Neb. RS
31-1001 et seq.
(Ord.616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 152.25 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator of the community is hereby designated as
the City Council’s duly designated enforcement officer under this chapter. The
Floodplain Administrator is authorized and directed to administer, implement
and enforce all provisions of these regulations. If the local Floodplain
Administrator position is unfilled, the City Engineer shall assume the duties
and responsibilities herein.
   (B)   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Review all development permit applications to assure that sites are
reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of this chapter
have been satisfied;
      (2)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies from which prior approval is required;
      (3)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine
whether such proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (4)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Water,
Energy and Environment prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse,
and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency;
      (5)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (6)   Verify, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new
or substantially improved structures in special flood hazard areas;
      (7)   Verify, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which new or substantially improved structures
have been floodproofed; and
      (8)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Building Inspector and Floodplain Administrator shall be presented
certification from a registered professional engineer or architect.
(Ord.616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
§ 152.26 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first file an
application in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every such
application shall:
   (A)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the floodplain
development permit;
   (B)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done by
lot, block, tract and house and street address or similar description that will
readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or development;
   (C)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended;
   (D)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed construction;
   (E)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent who may be
required to submit evidence to indicate such authority; and
   (F)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord.616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
§ 152.27 VARIANCE AND APPEALS PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Appeal. Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is
denied by the Floodplain Administrator, the applicant may apply for such permit
or variance directly to the Planning Commission of the city.
   (B)   Variances.
      (1)   The Planning Commission as established by the city shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      (3)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Planning Commission or
any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the district court as provided in Neb.
RS 19-912 (1943).
      (4)   In passing upon such applications, the Planning Commission shall
consider all technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this chapter and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
(Ord.616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
§ 152.28 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level; provided, that divisions (B) through (F) below have
been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (C)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels along the floodway profile during the base flood
discharge would result.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and sufficient
cause, a determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant and a determination that the granting of
a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to
public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on
or victimization of the public or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
   (F)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature of a
community official that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure
below the base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and such
construction below the base flood level increases risks to life and property.
Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all variance actions
as required by this chapter.
(Ord.616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
**** STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT ****
§ 152.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   No permit for development shall be granted for new construction,
substantial improvements and other development(s), including the placement of
manufactured homes within all numbered and unnumbered A Zones (including AE, AO
and AH Zones) unless the conditions of this section are satisfied.
   (B)   All areas identified as unnumbered A Zones on the FIRM are subject to
inundation of the base flood; however, the water surface elevation was not
provided. The unnumbered A Zones shall be subject to all development provisions
of §
152.41. If flood insurance study data is not available, the community shall
utilize any base flood elevation or floodway data currently available from
federal, state or other sources.
   (C)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within special flood hazard areas unless the
applicant has demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial
improvement, when combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated
developments or substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any location as shown on the
flood insurance study.
   (D)   New construction, subdivision proposals, substantial improvements,
prefabricated buildings, placement of manufactured homes and other developments
shall require:
      (1)   Design or anchorage to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   New or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage
systems be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into
the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters, and on-site waste
disposal systems be located so as to avoid impairment or contamination;
      (3)   Construction with materials resistant to flood damage, utilizing
methods and practices that minimize flood damages, and with electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding;
      (4)   All utility and sanitary facilities be elevated or floodproofed up
to the regulatory flood protection elevation so that any space below the
regulatory flood protection elevation is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy; and
      (5)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development, including
landfill, may be permitted within the identified floodplain unless the
applicant for the land use has demonstrated that the proposed use, when
combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated uses, will not
increase the water surface elevation of the 100-year flood more than one foot
on the average cross-section of the reach in which the development or landfill
is located as shown in the official floodplain study incorporated by reference.
   (E)   (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in times of
flooding, buoyant, flammable, explosive or could be injurious to human, animal
or plant life is prohibited.
      (2)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
   (F)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new development, including
manufactured home parks or subdivisions, are required to assure that all such
proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood damage, all public
utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems are
located, elevated and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage,
adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood hazards and
proposals for development (including proposals for manufactured home parks and
subdivision) of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is lesser, include within such
proposals the base flood elevation.
(Ord.616-25, passed 12-22-2025) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.41 FLOOD FRINGE OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Any use permitted in this section shall be permitted
in the Flood Fringe Overlay District. No use shall be permitted in the district
unless the standards of §
152.40 are met.
   (B)   Standards for the Flood Fringe Overlay District.
      (1)   Require new construction or substantial improvements of residential
structures to have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Require new construction or substantial improvements of
nonresidential structures to have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above one foot above the base flood elevation or, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, to be floodproofed so that below
that level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards
of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the
Building Inspector and Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
152.25(B)(7).
      (3)   Require for all new construction and substantial improvements that
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria: a minimum of two openings having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be not higher
than one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers,
valves or other coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters.
      (4)   Within AH Zones adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes
shall be required in order to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall comply with the following.
         (a)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist floatation,
collapse or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in accordance
with local building codes or FEMA guidelines. In the event that over-the-top
frame ties to ground anchors are used, the following specific requirements (or
their equivalent) shall be met:
            1.   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of
the manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate
locations and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one
additional tie per side;
            2.   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
            3.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying
a force of 4,800 pounds; and
            4.   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
         (b)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within special flood hazard areas on the community’s
FIRM on sites: outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new
manufactured home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage”
as the result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the
lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above one foot above the base
flood elevation; and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system in accordance with the provisions of division (B)(5)(a) above.
         (c)   Require that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
special flood hazard areas on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the
provisions of division (B)(5)(b) above be elevated so that either:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above one
foot above the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (B)(5)
(a) above.
      (6)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within the special flood
hazard areas on the community’s official map shall either: be on the site for
fewer than 180 consecutive days; be fully licensed and ready for highway use;
or meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring requirements
for “manufactured homes” of this chapter. A recreational vehicle is ready for
highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site
only by quick-disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions.
      (7)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
152.05 are areas designated as AO Zones. These areas have special flood hazards
associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply within AO Zones.
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as one foot above the depth number
specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number
is specified).
         (b)   All new construction and substantial improvements of
nonresidential structures shall:
            1.   Have the lowest floor elevated above the highest adjacent
grade at least as high as one foot above the depth number specified in feet on
the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified); or
            2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Such certification
shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
152.25(B)(7).
         (c)   Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes shall be
required in order to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord.616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
§ 152.42 FLOODWAY OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Only uses having a low flood damage potential and not
obstructing flood flows shall be permitted within the Floodway District to the
extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance and provided they do
not require structures, fill or storage of materials or equipment. No use shall
increase the flood levels of the base flood elevation. The following are
recommended uses for the Floodway District:
      (1)   Agricultural uses, such as general farming, pasture, nurseries,
forestry;
      (2)   Residential uses, such as lawns, gardens, parking and play areas;
      (3)   Nonresidential areas, such as loading areas, parking and airport
landing strips;
      (4)   Public and private recreational uses, such as golf courses, archery
ranges, picnic grounds, parks, wildlife and nature preserves;
      (5)   Railroads, streets, bridges and public utility wire and pipe lines
for transmission and local distribution;
      (6)   Fences (especially wire fences for agricultural purposes), walls or
other appurtenances may be constructed which would not constitute an
obstruction or debris-catching obstacle for the passage of floodwater; and
      (7)   Storage yards for equipment and material properly anchored to
prevent moving into bridges or other debris-catching areas or removable within
limited time available after flood warning or are not subject to major damage.
   (B)   Conditional uses. The following uses of land or structures are
considered conditional uses in the Floodway District:
      (1)   Structures accessory to the uses listed in division (A) above;
      (2)   Extraction and storage of sand, gravel and other materials;
      (3)   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves and water control
structures;
      (4)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines and
pipelines; and
      (5)   Recreational vehicles either on individual lots of record or in
commercial type campgrounds, subject to the exemptions and provisions of §
152.41(B)(6) related to recreational vehicles.
   (C)   Standards for the Floodway Overlay District. New structures for human
habitation are prohibited. All encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development must be prohibited unless
certification by a registered professional engineer or architect is provided
demonstrating that the development shall not result in any increase in water
surface elevations along the floodway profile during occurrence of the base
flood discharge. These uses are subject to the standards of this subchapter. In
Zone A unnumbered, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any flood elevation
and floodway data available through federal, state or other sources in meeting
the standards of this section.
(Ord.616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
§ 152.43 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the Floodplain Administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of 12 months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or regulations or the
cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places, provided that the
alteration shall not preclude its continued designation.
(Ord.616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $500, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved
in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city or other appropriate
authority from taking such other lawful action is as necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord.616-25, passed 12-22-2025)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   Purposes
   
153.003   Jurisdictional area
   
153.004   Compliance
   
153.005   Classification of districts
   
153.006   Zoning map
   
153.007   Amendments
   
153.008   Definitions
District Regulations
   
153.020   Agricultural District (A)
   
153.021   Residential District (R)
   
153.022   Commercial District (C)
   
153.023   Industrial District (I)
   
153.024   Floodplain District (FP)
   
153.025   Historical Sites District (H)
   
153.026   Signs
   
153.027   Central Business District
Conditional Uses
   
153.040   Authorization to grant or deny conditional uses
   
153.041   Application for a conditional use
   
153.042   Public hearing on a conditional use
   
153.043   Recess of the hearing by governing body
   
153.044   Action on a conditional use
   
153.045   Notification of action
   
153.046   Standards governing conditional uses
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
153.060   Off-street parking and loading to be provided
   
153.061   Continuing obligation
Supplemental Provisions
   
153.075   District boundaries
   
153.076   Accessory uses
   
153.077   Standards governing home occupations
   
153.078   Projections from buildings
   
153.079   Maintenance of minimum requirements
   
153.080   General exception to lot size requirements
   
153.081   Exceptions to yard requirements
   
153.082   General exception to building height limitations
   
153.083   Access
   
153.084   Vision clearance
   
153.085   Screening
   
153.086   Fences, walls and hedges in Residential Districts
   
153.087   Extractive industries, salvage junkyards, kennels and animal
hospitals
   
153.088   Animals within the city limits and Residential Districts
   
153.089   Swimming pools
   
153.090   Buildings on the same lot
   
153.091   Drive-in facilities
   
153.092   Storage and parking of mobile homes, trailers and commercial vehicles
   
153.093   Design and regulatory procedure for mobile home park development
   
153.094   General design standards for special services
   
153.095   Requirements prior to sale of part of a lot or part of a tract of
land
   
153.096   Metal roofing guidelines
Nonconforming Uses
   
153.110   Continuation of nonconforming use or structure
   
153.111   Nonconforming structure
   
153.112   Discontinuance of a nonconforming use
   
153.113   Termination of certain nonconforming uses
   
153.114   Change of nonconforming use
   
153.115   Destruction of a nonconforming use
   
153.116   Completion of building
   
153.117   Nonconforming lots of record
   
153.118   Nonconforming signs
   
153.119   District changes
Planned Unit Developments
   
153.130   Generally
   
153.131   Application
   
153.132   Types of planned unit developments
   
153.133   Zoning change
   
153.134   PUD-R, Residential
   
153.135   PUD-C, Commercial
   
153.136   PUD-I, Industrial
   
153.137   Submission of the preliminary plan
   
153.138   Explanatory information with preliminary plan
   
153.139   Preliminary review or proposal
   
153.140   Public hearing
   
153.141   Planning Commission action
   
153.142   Final plan
   
153.143   Information on final plan
   
153.144   Planning Commission action on final plan
   
153.145   Filing and recording
   
153.146   Permit
   
153.147   Changes in plan
   
153.148   Time limit
   
153.149   Development standards
Board of Adjustment
   
153.160   Establishment; powers and duties
   
153.161   Variances
   
153.162   Action on a variance
   
153.163   Appeals from the Board
Duties and Fees
   
153.175   Duties of officials
   
153.176   Fees
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.190   Enforcement
   
153.191   Form of petitions, applications and appeals
   
153.192   Permits on unplatted land
   
153.193   Permits in areas of known flooding
   
153.194   Temporary permits
   
153.195   Time limit on a permit for a conditional use or variance
   
153.196   Interpretation
 
   
153.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Scribner,
Nebraska.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.002 PURPOSES.
   The several purposes of this chapter are: to encourage the most appropriate
use of land; to conserve and stabilize the value of property; to aid in the
rendering of fire and police protection; to provide adequate open space for
light and air; to lessen the congestion on streets; to give an orderly growth
to the municipality; to prevent undue concentrations of population; to
facilitate adequate provisions for community utilities and facilities, such as
water, sewerage, electrical distribution systems, transportation, schools,
parks and other public requirements; and in general to promote public health,
safety and general welfare.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.003 JURISDICTIONAL AREA.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all land and buildings within the
corporate limits of the city, as presently exists or as hereafter established,
and any unincorporated territory lying outside of but within one mile of the
nearest point of the municipality’s limits (as shown on maps entitled “Zoning
Map of Scribner, dated           , 2009.”
   (B)   No determination, nor rule, nor requirements of these regulations,
shall be extended of applied so as to prohibit, prevent or interfere with the
conduct of existing farming, livestock operations, business or industry.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.004 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or premises shall hereafter be used or occupied and no
structure or part thereof shall be erected, moved, reconstructed, extended or
altered contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.005 CLASSIFICATION OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the municipality is divided into zones
designated as follows.
Districts Abbreviated Designations
Districts                 Abbreviated Designations
Agricultural District     (A)
Central Business District (CB)
Commercial District       (C)
Floodplain District       (FP)
Historical Sites District (H)
Industrial District       (I)
Residential District      (R)
 
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.006 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The location and boundaries of the districts designated in §
153.005 are hereby established as shown on maps entitled “Zoning Map of
Scribner” dated           , 2009 and signed by the Chairperson of the City
Board and City Clerk hereinafter referred to as the “zoning map.”
   (B)   The zoning map and all notations thereon are hereby made a part of
this chapter.
   (C)   The signed copy of the zoning map containing the zoning districts
designated at the time of adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter
shall be maintained without change on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.007 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Authorization and hearing.
      (1)   An amendment may be initiated by the City Clerk, by a motion of the
Planning Commission or by written petition of any person addressed to the
governing body. The governing body shall act on such petitions within 90 days
of receipt. Having once considered a petition, the governing body will not
consider substantially the same petition for one year.
      (2)   An amendment may be initiated by the governing body, by a motion of
the Planning Commission or by written petition of any property owner addressed
to the governing body. The governing body shall act on such petitions within 90
days of receipt. Having once considered a petition, the governing body will not
consider substantially the same petition for one year.
      (3)   All proposed amendments shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission and its recommendation shall be forwarded to the governing body.
   (B)   Minimum size of parcel. No amendment changing the zoning
classifications of any lot, parcel or tract of land shall be adopted unless
such lot, parcel or tract has 100 feet of frontage on a public street, or has
10,000 square feet of area, or abuts on a lot, parcel or tract of land that has
the same zoning classification as that which is proposed from the property
which is the subject of the proposed amendment.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009; Ord. 603-23, passed 11-27-2023)
§ 153.008 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE. A structure or use incidental and subordinate to
the main use of the property, including a home occupation, and which is located
on the same lot with the main use.
   ACCESSORY USE BUILDINGS. Subordinate buildings that are incidental to the
main/principal building on the premises in Residential Districts. Customary
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS include, but are not limited to, detached garages, storage
sheds and garden houses. Shipping containers are not defined or allowed as
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The designated administrator of the municipality to
administer the regulations within this chapter. The ADMINISTRATOR shall be
designated by the municipality.
   ALLEY. A tract of land dedicated for public use along the side of or in the
rear of lots intended to provide a secondary means of access to and from
streets and such lots.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. See DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building between floor and ceiling which is
partly below and partly above grade, but so located that the vertical distance
from the grade to the floor below is greater than the vertical distance from
the grade to the ceiling.
   BILLBOARD. See SIGN.
   BUILDING. A structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure or
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind, excluding fences.
   BUILDING COVERAGE. Any area or a portion of lot which is covered by all
buildings on that lot.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the lowest point of
finished grade on the lot within 25 feet of the building to the uppermost point
of the roof.
   BUSINESS OR PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. The office of an engineer, planner,
dentist, doctor, attorney, real estate broker, insurance broker, architect or
other similar professional persons, and any office used primarily for
accounting, correspondence, research, editing or administration.
   CAMPING UNIT. Any pick-up camper, motor home, travel trailer, tent trailer
or similar mobile unit not exceeding either eight feet in body width or 32 feet
in body length and designed specifically for recreational and vacation
purposes.
   CAMPING UNIT CAMPGROUND. Any plot of improved property utilized for camping
and parking of camping units as herein defined. Such a CAMPING UNIT CAMPGROUND
shall be referred to as a CAMPGROUND for the purposes of this chapter.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. A parcel of land or an area of water or a combination of
both land and water within any site designated as a planned unit development.
COMMON OPEN SPACE does not include streets, alleys, parks, off-street parking
and loading areas, public open space or other facilities dedicated by the
developer or public use. COMMON OPEN SPACE shall be substantially free of
structures, but may contain such improvements that are approved as part of the
planned unit development and are appropriate for the recreation of residents of
the planned unit development.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. An official map or street plan, the future land use map
or plan, or any other long range plan or map of the municipality.
   CORNER LOT. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection or
upon two parts of the same street and where, in either case, the interior angle
formed by the intersection of street lines does not exceed 135 degrees.
   COUNTY. The County of Dodge, Nebraska.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Supervisors.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land devoted to housing
and usable open space.
   DISTRICT. An area or areas within the incorporated part of the municipality
and its jurisdictional area for which the regulations and requirements
governing use, lot and bulk of building and premises are uniform.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENTS. An establishment which is designed to provide,
wholly or in part, service to customers while they remain in their automobiles
parked upon the premises.
   DRIVEWAY. An all-weather-surfaced vehicle access-way from a village street
to a garage or parking area adjacent to, or within close proximity (ten feet or
less) of a habitable structure.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-UNIT. A building containing two or more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, ONE-UNIT. A detached building containing one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, RANCH AND FARM. Residential dwellings appurtenant to agricultural
operations, including living quarters for persons employed on the premises (but
not including labor camps or dwellings for transient labor), guest houses not
rented or otherwise conducted as a business and private garages, stables and
barns.
    DWELLING, SINGLE-UNIT. A detached principal building other than a mobile
home designed for or used as a dwelling exclusively by one family as an
independent living unit.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms designed for occupancy by one family and
not having more than one cooking facility.
   EASEMENT. The authorization by a property owner for the use by the public, a
corporation or persons, of any designated part of his or her property for
specific purposes.
   EMPLOYEES. All persons, including proprietors, working on the premises
during the largest shirt at peak season.
   ESSENTIAL GOVERNMENTAL OR PUBLIC UTILITIES SERVICE. The erection,
construction, alteration or maintenance by public utilities or municipal
departments of underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water
transmission distribution systems, including poles, wires, mains, drains,
sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic
signals, hydrants and other similar equipment and accessories of adequate
service by such public utilities or municipal departments or commissions or for
the public health or safety or general welfare.
   FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage,
legal adoption or guardianship living together in a dwelling unit in which
board and lodging may also be provided for not more than four additional
persons, excluding servants; or a group of not more than five persons who need
not be related by blood, marriage, legal adoption or guardianship living
together in a dwelling unit.
   FEED LOTS. The confined feeding of food, fur or pleasure animals in
buildings, lots, pens, pools or ponds which normally are not used for raising
crops or for grazing animals. For the purpose of this chapter, the term FEED
LOT shall include the confined feeding of: 150 or more feeder or fat cattle;
100 or more beef cows; 100 or more dairy cattle; 500 or more swing; 2,000 or
more sheep; 3,000 or more turkeys; or 10,000 or more chickens, ducks or geese.
   FENCE, SIGHT OBSCURING. A free-standing structure of metal, masonry,
composition or wood or any combination thereof resting on or partially buried
in the ground and rising above purposes or a dense evergreen planting.
   FRONTAGE. The portion of a lot, parcel, tract or block abutting upon a
street.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or portion of a main building used
for the parking or temporary storage of vehicles or used by occupants of the
main building.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building other than a private garage used for the care and
repair of motor vehicles or where such vehicles are parked or stored for
compensation, hire or sale.
    GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. A building or premises on or in which the
principal use is the retail sale of gasoline, oil or other fuel for motor
vehicles which may include as an incidental use only, facilities used for
polishing, greasing, washing or otherwise cleaning or light servicing of motor
vehicles, but may not include liquefied petroleum gas distribution facilities
or facilities for major repairs for motor vehicles.
   GOVERNING BODY. The elected governing body of the city.
   GRADE (GROUND LEVEL). The average of the finished ground level at the center
of all walls of the building. In case walls are parallel to and within five
feet of a sidewalk, the above-ground level should be measured at the sidewalk.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation carried on within a dwelling or accessory
building by members of the family occupying the dwelling, provided the
residential character of the building is maintained and the occupation is
conducted in such a manner as not go give an outward appearance, nor manifest
any characteristic of a business in the ordinary meaning of the term, nor
infringe upon the right of the neighboring residents to enjoy the peaceful
occupancy of their homes.
   HOSPITAL. An establishment which provides sleeping and eating facilities to
persons receiving medical, obstetrical or surgical care and nursing service on
a continuous basis.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging is provided for guests for compensation
and in which no provision is made for cooking in the guest rooms.
   JUNKYARD (SALVAGE). Any lot, parcel or tract used for storage, keeping, sale
or abandonment of junk and/or for the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of
three or more unlicensed motor vehicles or other junk or parts thereof.
   KENNEL. A lot or building in which four or more dogs or cats at least four
months of age are kept commercially for board, propagation or sale.
   LOT. A parcel or tract of land which is occupied by a structure together
with the yards and other open spaces required by this chapter.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance from the midpoint of the front lot line
to the midpoint of the rear lot line.
   LOT DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot which runs through a block from the street to
street and which has two non-intersecting sides abutting on two or more
streets.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
    LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. In the case of an interior lot, the lot line separating the
lot from the street other than an alley, and in the case of a corner lot, the
shortest lot line along a street other than an alley.
   LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front
lot line, and in the case of an irregular, triangular or other shaped lot, a
line ten feet in length within the lot paralleled to and at a maximum distance
from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line not a front or rear lot line.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance on a horizontal plane between the side lot lines of
a lot, measured at right angles to the line establishing the lot depth at the
established building setback line.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed to be transported after fabrication and
exceeding either eight feet in body width or 32 feet in body length. Such a
structure is built on a chassis and retains the chassis on which it was built.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more mobile homes,
occupied or intended to be occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are
located for periods of longer than 90 days, regardless of whether or not a
charge is made for such accommodation.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for
the accommodation of one mobile home.
   MODULAR HOME. A structure designed to be transported after fabrication and
located as a permanent addition to, and becoming part of, the real property.
Such a structure must meet minimum construction requirements of the Uniform
Building Code or similar requirements as accepted by the Federal Housing
Administration or the Veteran’s Administration. Such structure must be set on a
permanent foundation and is subject to all local building, zoning and housing
regulations. Any such MODULAR HOME meeting the requirements herein defined is
not considered a MOBILE HOME.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings on the same lot containing guest
units with separate entrances from the building exterior and consisting or
individual sleeping quarters.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Scribner, Nebraska.
   NET DEVELOPMENT AREA. All land area in a planned unit development less land
in slopes in excess of 15%.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE OR USE. A lawful existing structure or use at the
time this chapter or any amendments thereto becomes effective which does not
conform to the requirements of the zone in which it is located.
   PARKING, OFF-STREET. Parking of motor vehicles off the public right-of-way.
   PARKING SPACE. A rectangular area containing not less than 200 square feet
with maneuvering and access space required for a standard American automobile
to park within the rectangle.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   PLAN, FINAL. A map and supporting materials of the approved preliminary
plan.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   A project of a single owner or a group of owners acting jointly,
involving a related group of residences or businesses, or industries and
associated uses, planned as a single entity and therefore subject to
development and regulation as one land use unit rather than as an aggregation
of individual buildings located on separate lots.
      (2)   The PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT includes usable, functional, open
space for the mutual benefit of the entire tract and is designed to provide
variety and diversity through the variance of normal zoning and subdivision
standards so that maximum long-range benefits can be gained and the unique
features of the development or site is preserved and enhanced, while still
being in harmony with the surrounding neighborhood.
      (3)   Approval of a PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT does not eliminate the
requirements of subdividing. A preliminary plat and a final plat must be
submitted and processed through the subdivision procedures as provided in the
subdivision regulations of the municipality or county (if applicable).
   PLAN, PRELIMINARY. The map or maps of a planned unit development and
specified supporting materials, drawn and submitted.
   PREMISES. A general term meaning part or all of any lot, parcel or tract or
part or all of any building or structure or group of buildings or structures
located thereon.
   PROPERTY LINE. The boundary of any lot, parcel or tract as the same is
described in the conveyance to the owner, and shall not include the streets or
alleys upon which said lot, parcel or tract may abut.
   PUBLIC HEARING. A meeting called by a public body for which public notice
has been given and which is held in a place in which the general public may
attend to hear issues and express their opinions.
   PUBLIC OR CENTRAL WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.
      (1)   A public sewerage system that is used or designed to be used for
collection, treatment (preliminary and secondary) and discharge of domestic
sewage, industrial or commercial wastes from two or more residential units; two
or more mobile home spaces in mobile home subdivisions or mobile home parks;
two or more lots or properties located in platted subdivisions; or two or more
industrial or commercial properties.
      (2)   A public water supply system which serves two or more residential
units; two or more mobile home spaces in residential units; two or more mobile
home spaces in mobile home subdivisions or mobile home parks; two or more lots
or properties located in platted subdivisions; or two or more industrial or
commercial properties.
   RETAIL. Sale to the ultimate consumer for direct consumption and/or use and
not for resale.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. All streets, roadways, sidewalks, alleys and all other
areas reserved for present or future use by the public, as a matter of right,
for the purpose of vehicular or pedestrian travel.
   SCREENING. Decorative fencing, evergreen vegetation or earth berms
maintained for the purpose of concealing from view the area behind such
screening. When fencing is used for SCREENING, it shall be not less than six
nor more than eight feet in height.
   SERVICE DRIVE. A driveway entering a street from a drive-in business
establishment or an off-street parking area, excluding residential driveways,
serving fewer than ten dwelling units.
   SETBACKS. See YARD; YARD, FRONT; YARD, REAR; and YARD, SIDE.
   SIGN. A presentation or representation, other than a house number, by words,
letters, figures, designs, pictures or colors publicly displayed so as to give
notice relative to a person, a business, an article or merchandise, a service,
an assemblage, a solicitation or a request for aid or other type of
advertising. This includes the board, metal or surface upon which the sign is
painted, included or attached. Each display surface of a sign shall be
considered to be a SIGN.
   STORY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way which
provides for public use for the purpose of vehicular and pedestrian traffic and
the placement of utilities and including the terms ROAD, HIGHWAY, LAND, PLACE,
AVENUE, ALLEY or other similar designations.
   STRUCTURE. Built or constructed, an edifice or building of any kind or any
piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts jointed together in
some definite manner and which requires location on the ground or which is
attached to something having a location on the ground, such as a permanent
foundation.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change to the supporting members of a structure,
including foundations, bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders
or any structural change in the roof.
    SUBDIVISION. The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or
more sites, or other divisions of land for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of ownership or building development, except that the division of land
shall not be considered to be a SUBDIVISION when the parcel of land created is
more than five acres in area.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any permanent underground pool.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a structure is designed.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A subordinate use which is customarily incidental to the
principal building or to the principal use of the lot.
   USE, CONDITIONAL. A use which may be permitted in a zoning district upon
favorable action by the governing body.
   USE, NONCONFORMING. A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the
time this chapter or an amendment hereto became effective and which does not
now conform with the use regulations applicable in the zoning district in which
it is located.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The main use of land or structures as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
   USE REGULATIONS. The provisions of this chapter which identify permitted and
conditional uses, impose use limitations, require adherence to performance
standards and regulate accessory uses.
   USE, TEMPORARY. A use which, by nature and intent, exists for a short time
only.
   VISION CLEARANCE AREA.
      (1)   A triangular area on a lot at the intersection of two streets or a
street and a railroad, two sides of which are lot lines measured from the
corner intersection of the lot lines to the distance specified in this chapter.
The third side of the triangle is a line across the corner of the lot joining
the ends of the other two sides.
      (2)   Where the lot lines at the intersections have rounded corners, the
lot lines will be extended in a straight line to a point of intersection.
      (3)   The VISION CLEARANCE AREA contains no planting, walls, structures
or temporary or permanent obstructions exceeding three and one-half feet in
height measured from the top of the curb or existing grade.
   YARD. An open space on a lot which is unobstructed from the ground upward
except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard between side lot lines and measured horizontally at
right angles to the front lot line from the from the front lot line to the
nearest point of the main building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending between side lot lines and measured
horizontally at right angles to the rear lot line from the rear lot line to the
nearest point of the main building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between a building and the side lot line measured
horizontally at right angles to the side lot line from the side lot line to the
nearest point of the main building.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009; Ord. 518-11, passed 12-27-2011; Ord. 558-16,
passed 10-24-2016)
**** DISTRICT REGULATIONS ****
§ 153.020 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (A).
   This district is comprised of areas which are primarily in a natural state
or areas utilized for growing of crops, raising of livestock and other similar
farming, ranching and resource conservation activities. This district is
designed to be utilized in the extraterritorial jurisdictional area of the
municipality.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   General farming and ranching, including raising of grains, fruits,
vegetables, grasses, hay and livestock. Animals may be permitted only in
compliance with §
153.088;
      (2)   Management of natural wildlife habitats and reserves, both public
and private;
      (3)   Ranch and farm dwelling;
      (4)   Recreational facilities operated by public entity; and
      (5)   Accessory buildings and uses. Mobile homes and single family
dwellings shall be permitted on a farm or ranch within the district; provided,
that they are used for relatives or farm workers of the farm or ranch.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   One unit dwellings;
      (2)   Commercial auction yards and barns;
      (3)   Commercial production and husbandry of poultry, fish and small
animals. Animals may be permitted only in compliance with §
153.088;
      (4)   Sale and distribution of agricultural products and produce by the
farm owner or operator;
      (5)   Commercial greenhouses;
      (6)   Public schools, vocational schools, business schools, private
schools, hospitals, rest homes, nursing homes and convalescent homes;
      (7)   Utility installations, such as electric substations, sewer lift
stations, telephone exchanges, gas regulators and major transmission lines (not
including utility offices, repair, storage or production facilities);
      (8)   Sewage disposal, water supply and treatment and solid waste
disposal facilities;
      (9)   Public facilities, uses and buildings;
      (10)   Feed lots (animals may be permitted only in compliance with §
153.088);
      (11)   Cemeteries;
      (12)   Extraction of natural resources;
      (13)   Radio, television and microwave transmitting or relay stations and
towers;
      (14)   Feed mills, fertilizer plants and anhydrous ammonia storage tank
facilities or plants;
      (15)   Storage of trucks and implements;
      (16)   Public and private riding academies, provided that no stable,
building or structure in which horses or other animals are kept may be kept
closer than 300 feet from any Residential District. Animals may be permitted
only in compliance with §
153.088;
      (17)   Public campgrounds;
      (18)   Private lakes, outdoor recreation facilities and campgrounds;
      (19)   Golf courses;
      (20)   Home occupations;
      (21)   Veterinarian facilities, kennels and animal hospitals;
      (22)   Confined hog feeding; and
      (23)   Fuel storage tanks.
    (C)   Lot size.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: one acre or 7,500 square feet when central water
and sewer facilities are provided as a part of a subdivision or planned unit
development; and
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 200 feet or 60 feet when central water and sewer
facilities are provided as a part of a subdivision or planned unit development.
   (D)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Minimum front yard: 50 feet contiguous to all county roads and
state highways and 35 feet contiguous to all other roads and streets;
      (2)   Minimum side yard: 50 feet contiguous to all county roads and state
highways, 35 feet contiguous to all other roads and streets and seven feet from
the property line; and
      (3)   Minimum rear yard: 50 feet contiguous to all county roads and state
highways, 35 feet contiguous to all other roads and streets and 25 feet from
the property line.
   (E)   Lot coverage. The total coverage of all buildings shall not occupy
more than 20% of the lot area.
   (F)   Height of buildings. Maximum height for structure intended for human
occupancy, 35 feet; all others, no restrictions.
   (G)   Location requirements for specified new or expanded uses in this
district. The following uses must be located one-quarter mile or further from
the nearest occupied residential (excluding owner or operator), commercial or
industrial building or public school as measured from the nearest edge of the
lot lines:
      (1)   Feed lots;
      (2)   Commercial auction yards and barns;
      (3)   Commercial production and husbandry of poultry, fish and small
animals; and
      (4)   Feed mills, packing plants, fertilizer plants and anhydrous ammonia
storage tank facilities or plants.
   (H)   Location requirements for residential and school development
pertaining to existing feed lots. No residence or school may be constructed
closer than one-quarter mile to an existing feed lot, auction yard or confined
feeding operation.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.021 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R).
   This district is composed of certain quiet, low-density residential areas of
the municipality and its jurisdictions plus certain open areas where similar
residential development should occur. The regulations for this district are
designed to stabilize and protect the essential characteristics of the
district, to promote and encourage a suitable environment for family life and
to prohibit activities of a commercial nature.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agricultural uses limited to raising of crops and farm animals,
however, farm animals located within the residential zone of the City of
Scribner will be permitted only when in compliance with §
153.088;
      (2)   One-unit dwellings, including one-unit modular dwellings if said
dwellings comply with community codes;
      (3)   Public schools;
      (4)   Churches, chapels, temples and synagogues;
      (5)   Accessory buildings and uses;
      (6)   Recreational uses;
      (7)   Public utility installations except sewer treatment facilities; and
      (8)   Public buildings.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Private hospitals, rest homes, nursing homes, vocational, private
and business schools;
      (2)   Sewage disposal treatment facilities;
      (3)   Extraction of natural resources;
      (4)   Mobile home parks (see §
153.093);
      (5)   Boarding houses and dormitories;
       (6)   Two-unit dwellings;
      (7)   Multi-family dwellings;
      (7)   Mortuaries;
      (8)   Home occupations; and
      (10)   Nursery or day care schools.
   (C)   Lot size.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: the minimum lot area shall be 7,000 square feet
per dwelling unit; and
      (2)   Minimum lot width: the minimum lot width shall be 60 feet for an
interior lot and 75 feet for a corner, or shall be a minimum of 45 feet when
facing a cul-de-sac or curve.
   (D)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Minimum yard setbacks contiguous to all county roads and state
highways: 50 feet; and
      (2)   Minimum yard setbacks contiguous to all other roads and streets:
         (a)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet;
         (b)   Minimum side yard: eight feet;
         (c)   Minimum rear yard: 25 feet;
         (d)   The entrance side of a garage or carport shall be at least 25
feet from the access street, except that in case of an alley, the entrance
shall be at least five feet from the rear lot line or a minimum of 15 feet from
the rear lot line if vehicle access is perpendicular to an alleyway; and
         (e)   Minimum side yard: 12 feet on corner lots only.
   (E)   Lot coverage. The total coverage of all buildings shall not occupy
more than 40% of the lot area.
   (F)   Height of buildings.
      (1)   Maximum height for principle uses: 35 feet, except as a part of a
planned unit development maximum height shall be 50 feet; and
      (2)   Maximum height for accessory uses: 20 feet.
   (G)   Location requirements for residential and school areas as pertaining
to existing feed lots. No residential or school structure may be constructed
within one quarter mile of an existing feed lot as measured from the nearest
edge of the feed lot line to the edge of the proposed structure. This excludes
residential structure of feed lot owners or operators.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009; Ord. 558-16, passed 10-24-2016; Ord. 568-18,
passed 4-23-2018; Ord. 603-23, passed 11-27-2023) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.022 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C).
   This district is intended to provide a full range of retail sales and
services, including opportunities for a complete variety of comparative
shoppers’ goods, plus activities not basically conducted within an enclosed
structure, such as used car lots and the like. The regulations for this
district are designed to stabilize and protect the essential characteristics of
the district, to promote and encourage a suitable environment for providing
service to the people of the retail trade area and to prohibit activities of an
industrial nature. The regulations are designed to permit development of
commercial and business functions plus certain public facilities which are
needed to serve the occupants of the district.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Establishments for the retailing of convenience and shoppers’ goods
and for a wide variety of commercial uses and personal services, including, but
not limited to, variety, supermarket, hardware, sporting goods, shoe, drug,
clothing, department and major comparison stores, barber and beauty shops, dry
cleaning outlets, self-service laundries, shoe repair shops and similar service
activities;
      (2)   Business school;
      (3)   Building materials retail outlet only;
      (4)   Gasoline service stations (see §
153.093);
      (5)   Mobile home, automobile, boat, truck or trailer storage, sales,
repair and rental;
      (6)   Agricultural implement sales and service;
      (7)   Mortuaries and funeral chapels;
      (8)   Medical and dental clinics;
      (9)   Business and professional offices;
      (10)   Financial institutions;
      (11)   Membership clubs;
      (12)   Churches, chapels, temples and synagogues;
      (13)   Greenhouses;
      (14)   Hotels and motels or boarding houses, including restaurants and
other incidental commercial uses inside the principle building;
      (15)   Automobile parking lots;
      (16)   Eating and drinking establishments;
      (17)   Indoor amusement and entertainment establishments;
      (18)   Miniature golf courses, outdoor amusement and entertainment
establishments not including a drive-in theater;
      (19)   One-unit dwelling when incidental to the principal permitted use;
      (20)   Parks, playfields and playgrounds;
      (21)   Public utility uses, facilities, services and buildings;
      (22)   Accessory buildings and uses;
      (23)   Auditorium, exhibit or hall or other public assembly room;
      (24)   Bus passenger station;
      (25)   Custom dressmaking or tailor shops;
      (26)   Locksmith, jewelry or watch repair;
      (27)   News or novelty stands;
      (28)   Movie theaters, except outdoor type;
      (29)   Bakery;
      (30)   Printing shops;
      (31)   Bowling center;
      (32)   Vocational and private schools (see §
153.093);
      (33)   Car wash facilities;
      (34)   Lumber and building material sales facilities; and
      (35)   Studio: art, music, dance, health, photography or broadcasting.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Drive-in theater and drive-in establishments offering goods and
services to customers waiting in parked motor vehicles;
      (2)   Veterinarian facilities and animal hospitals;
      (3)   Wholesale activities;
      (4)   Private campgrounds;
      (5)   Second-hand store or pawn shop; and
      (6)   Dwellings, provided they shall be governed by the requirements of
the (R) District.
   (C)   Lot size.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 4,000 square feet; and
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 50 feet.
   (D)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   No minimum requirements except as provided for residential
structures which shall be governed by (R) District requirements.
      (2)   The minimum yard dimensions of the Residential Districts shall
apply on the side of a lot abutting a Residential District.
      (3)   There shall be no side yard requirements for nonresidential uses
except as provided above.
   (E)    Lot coverage.
      (1)   In a (C) District, the total coverage of all buildings shall not
occupy more than 80% of the lot area, except for residential buildings.
Approval of the governing body is required for a building to exceed 60% of the
lot area.
      (2)   The governing body of the city, considering the need for off-street
parking, differing highway and road constraints and regulations, topography,
differing traffic congestion and the health, safety and the welfare of the
community, and upon any recommendation of the Planning Commission, may require
appropriate setback requirements and adequate off-street parking for individual
parcels prior to issuing any building permits in a Commercial District.
   (F)   Height of buildings.
      (1)   Maximum height for principle uses: 60 feet; except that within 100
feet of the (R) District, no structure shall exceed 35 feet in height; and
      (2)   Maximum height for accessory uses: 20 feet.
   (G)   Use limitations.
      (1)   All business establishments shall be retail, service or wholesale
establishments dealing directly with consumers.
      (2)   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to
avoid casting direct light on any property located in a residential or mobile
home district.
      (3)   All business, service, repair, processing, storage or merchandise
display on property abutting or facing a lot in a Residential District shall be
conducted wholly within an enclosed building unless screened from the
Residential District by a sight-obscure fence permanently maintained at least
six feet in height.
      (4)   Openings to structure on sides adjacent to or across the street
from a Residential District shall be prohibited if such access or openings will
cause glare, excessive noise or other adverse effects on residential
properties.
      (5)   Motor vehicles, boat or trailer rental or sales lots shall be
drained and surfaced with crushed rock or pavement except in those portions of
the lot maintained as landscape area.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.023 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I).
   This district provides for non-offensive types of industry, warehousing,
processing and manufacturing activities. The regulations of this district are
intended to provide standards of external effective con1patible with the
surrounding or abutting districts.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Facilities for the manufacturing, fabrication, processing or
assembly of products; provided, that such facilities are completely enclosed
and provided that no effects from noise, smoke, glare, vibration, fumes or
other environmental factors are measurable at the property line;
      (2)   All other facilities for the manufacturing, fabrication, processing
or assembly of products; provided, that such facilities are not detrimental to
the public health, safety or general welfare; and provided, that the following
performance standards are met.
         (a)   Smoke. No operation shall be conducted unless it conforms to the
state standards established pertaining to smoke emissions.
         (b)   Particulate matter. No operation shall be conducted unless it
conforms to the state standards established pertaining to emission of
particulate matter.
         (c)   Dust, odor, gas, fumes, glare or vibration. No emission of these
matters shall result in a concentration at or beyond the property line which is
detrimental to the public health, safety or general welfare or which causes
injury or damage to property.
         (d)   Radiation hazards and electrical disturbances. No operation
shall be conducted unless it conforms to state standards established pertaining
to radiation control.
         (e)   Noise. No operation shall be conducted in a manner so that any
noise produced is objectionable due to intermittence, beat frequency or
shrillness. Sound levels of noise radiating from property line at a distance of
25 feet or more therefrom shall not exceed 75 db(A).
         (f)   Water pollution. No water pollution shall be emitted by the
manufacturing or other processing. In a case in which potential hazards exist,
it shall be necessary to install safeguards acceptable to the state.
      (3)   General research facilities;
      (4)   Indoor eating and drinking establishments on the same lot as, and
incidental to, any use allowed by right or special review;
      (5)   Automobile parking lots;
      (6)   Sales, service and storage of mobile homes, campers, boats,
bicycles, motor vehicles, motorized equipment and accessories for such
vehicles;
      (7)   Commercial uses (excluding retail stores), including, but not
limited to, the following: lumber yards, nursery, stock production and sales,
yard equipment and supply dealers, firewood operations, building contractors
and equipment, transportation centers, service garages, wholesale operations,
household equipment and appliance repair, rental establishments, car washes,
bulk cleaning and laundry plants, cold storage lockers and printing services;
provided, that adequate safeguards are taken to protect adjoining properties
from objectionable or harmful substances, conditions or operations. Animals may
be permitted only in compliance with §
153.088;
      (8)   Public utility uses, facilities, services and buildings;
      (9)   Accessory buildings and uses; and
      (10)   Gasoline service stations (see §
153.093).
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Retailing establishments;
      (2)   Professional services;
      (3)   Administrative and executive offices;
      (4)   General business and professional offices;
      (5)   Vocational schools;
      (6)   Animal hospitals and kennels;
      (7)   Outdoor amusement and entertainment establishments;
      (8)   Extraction of natural resources;
      (9)   Drive-in theaters; and
      (10)   Junkyards.
   (C)   Lot size.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 10,000 square feet; and
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 80 feet.
   (D)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Minimum front yard: 30 feet;
      (2)   Minimum side yard: ten feet; and
      (3)   Minimum rear yards: ten feet.
   (E)   Lot coverage.
      (1)   The total coverage of all buildings shall not occupy more than 80%
of the lot area, except for residential buildings. Approval of the governing
body of the city is required for a building or structure to exceed 60% of lot
area.
      (2)   The governing body of the city, considering the need for off-street
parking, differing highway and road constraints and regulations. topography,
differing traffic congestion and the health, safety and the welfare of the
community, and upon any recommendation of the Planning Commission, may require
appropriate setback requirements and adequate off-street parking for individual
parcels prior to issuing any building permits in an Industrial District.
   (F)   Height of buildings.
      (1)   Maximum height for principle uses: 60 feet; except that within 100
feet of the (R) District, no structure shall exceed 35 feet in height; and
      (2)   Maximum height for accessory uses: 25 feet.
   (G)   Use limitations.
      (1)   All operations, activities and storage shall be conducted wholly
inside of a building or buildings, unless the nearest point of such operation
or activity is more than 200 feet from the boundary of any other zoning
district other than an (I) District and except that storage may be maintained
outside the building and side yards or rear yards if such storage area is
separated from public streets and other property (except property located in an
(I) District) by screening of not less than six feet in height.
      (2)   Servicing and maintenance of vehicles shall be permitted only when
such is necessary to the conduct of a permitted use.
      (3)   If a lot in an (I) District adjoins a Residential District,
screening shall be provided at the lot lines sufficient to protect, on a year
around basis, the privacy of adjoining residential uses.
      (4)   No building shall be used for residential purposes except that a
watchperson or owner of the use may reside on the premises.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.024 FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT (FP).
   The Floodplain District is designated for the purpose of protecting the
citizen and his or her property from danger of flood, to aid the natural
drainage of the land and to maintain vegetative lands for recreation and
ecological balance.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   General farming and ranching, including raising of grains, fruits,
vegetables, grasses, hay and livestock;
      (2)   Management of natural wildlife habitats and reserves, both public
and private; and
      (3)   Recreational facilities (park, playfields and playgrounds) operated
by a public entity.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Utilities, electrical and other transmission lines;
      (2)   Temporary structures and buildings pertaining to permitted and
conditional uses;
      (3)   Accessory buildings and structures used as private garages, sheds,
fences and similar structures; and
      (4)   Extraction of natural resources.
   (C)   Lot size.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: none; and
      (2)   Minimum lot width: none.
   (D)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Minimum front yard: none;
      (2)   Minimum side yard: none; and
      (3)   Minimum rear yard: none.
   (E)   Lot coverage. The total coverage of all buildings shall not occupy
more than 20% of the lot area.
   (F)   Height of buildings.
      (1)   Temporary structures must conform to height requirements pertaining
to principle structures in adjoining districts.
      (2)   Accessory buildings and structures must conform to height
requirements pertaining to accessory structures in adjoining districts.
   (G)   Special provisions. When any part of the Floodplain District has been
designated as an established floodway by an applicable Natural Resource
District, any structure permitted by said District shall be permitted;
provided, that such permitted structure shall not be used in violation of
division (B) above, nor shall variation from any other section of this chapter
be permitted.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.025 HISTORICAL SITES DISTRICT (H).
   The Historical Site District is designated for the purpose of protecting and
preserving the historical structures and sites in the municipality and its
jurisdiction. Such districts may be designated by the Planning Commission and
uses restricted as deemed necessary and prudent by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.026 SIGNS.
   All signs adjacent to interstate and primary highways must comply with the
rules and regulations of the Department of Roads, in accordance with the
provisions of Neb. RS Chapter 34, Article 9. Signs shall not be erected or
maintained in such a manner as to obscure, or otherwise physically interfere
with an official traffic sign, signal or device, or in such a manner as to
obstruct or interfere with a driver’s view of approaching, merging or
intersecting traffic. All signs shall be maintained in a neat and presentable
condition. In the event their use shall cease, they shall be removed promptly
and the area restored to a condition free from refuse and rubbish. After 30
days’ notice and failure to do so, the municipality shall remove the sign and
assess the charges to the owner. Signs shall be of a kind and character not
unsightly. In the event of a complaint on the character or kind of sign being
maintained, the decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be final as to
compliance of the sign with these provisions, which decisions shall be made
after an investigation and report by the Planning Commission, if deemed
desirable by the Board.
   (A)   Free-standing signs in the (A), (FP) (H) and (R) Districts.
      (1)   Signs permitted in the (A), (FP), (H) and (R) Districts shall be
erected and maintained at least 15 feet from the street line or road.
      (2)   Each property owner may erect one sign not to exceed six square
feet in total area.
   (B)   Free-standing signs in the (C) and (CB) District.
      (1)   Signs permitted in the (A), (FP), (H) and (R) Districts; and
      (2)   Signs identifying a retailing and service establishment area. One
sign not exceeding 50 square feet in area. Signs shall be limited to those
identifying the establishment, except that no business sign shall be located
within 50 feet of a lot in a Residential District, a public park or a school
residential property or on streets.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.027 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   This district is intended to provide a full range of retail sales and
services, including opportunities for a complete variety of comparative
shoppers’ goods, plus activities not basically conducted within an enclosed
structure, such as used car lots and the like. The regulations for this
district are designed to stabilize and protect the essential characteristics of
the district, to promote and encourage a suitable environment for providing
service to the people of the retail trade area and to prohibit activities of an
industrial nature. The regulations are designed to permit development of
commercial and business functions plus certain public facilities which are
needed to serve the occupants of the district.
   (B)   In all aspects, Central Business District (CB) is the same as
Commercial District (C), except the minimum lot width is 25 feet, the minimum
lot area is 2,000 square feet and the lot coverage in the Central Business
District is 100% of the lot area, except for residential buildings.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
**** CONDITIONAL USES ****
§ 153.040 AUTHORIZATION TO GRANT OR DENY CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   (1)   Uses designated in this chapter as conditional uses shall be
permitted upon approval by the governing body all in accordance with the
standards and procedures specified in this subchapter. The governing body will
receive a recommendation by the Planning Commission prior to acting upon any
application for a conditional use.
      (2)   In permitting a conditional use, the governing body may specify
other conditions found necessary to protect the best interest of the
surrounding property or neighborhood or the municipality and its jurisdiction
as a whole. These conditions may include increasing the required lot size or
yard dimensions, increasing street widths, controlling the location and number
of vehicular access points to the property, increasing the number of off-street
parking or loading spaces required, limiting the number of signs, limiting the
coverage or height of buildings because of obstruction to view and reduction of
light and air to adjacent property, requiring screening and landscaping where
necessary to reduce noise and glare and maintain the property in a character in
keeping with the surrounding area, and requirements under which any future
enlargement or alteration of the use shall be reviewed by the governing body
and new conditions imposed.
   (B)   Change in use, expansion or contraction of site area or alteration of
structures or uses classified as conditional existing prior to the effective
date of this chapter shall conform to all regulations pertaining to conditional
uses.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.041 APPLICATION FOR A CONDITIONAL USE.
   (A)   A request for a conditional use or modification of any existing
conditional use may be initiated by a property owner or his or her authorized
agent by filing an application with the City Clerk by written letter. The
application shall be accompanied by a site plan, drawn to scale, showing
locations of all utilities, rights-of-way and roadways.
   (B)   (1)   The governing body may require other drawings or material
essential to an understanding of the proposed use and its relationship to
surrounding properties.
      (2)   The property owner shall provide payment for all costs incurred by
the municipality as a result of the conditional use request.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.042 PUBLIC HEARING ON A CONDITIONAL USE.
   A proposed conditional use shall be considered by the governing body at a
public hearing held within 45 days after filing of the application. The City
Clerk shall give notice of the hearing in the following manner:
   (A)   By publication of a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in
the municipality not less than 20 days prior to the date of the hearing; and
   (B)   By sending notices by mail not less than ten days prior to the date of
the hearing to all abutting property owners. Failure to receive such notice
shall not invalidate any proceedings in connection with the application for a
conditional use.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.043 RECESS OF THE HEARING BY GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body may recess a hearing on a request for a conditional use
in order to obtain additional information or to serve further notices upon
other property owners or persons whom it decides may be interested in the
proposed governing body shall announce the time and date when the hearing will
be resumed.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.044 ACTION ON A CONDITIONAL USE.
   The governing body may approve, or approve conditionally or disapprove a
request for a continual use. A file containing a written record of the action
taken by the governing body with regard to conditional uses shall be maintained
by the governing body.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.045 NOTIFICATION OF ACTION.
   The City Clerk shall notify the applicant for a conditional use in writing
of the governing body’s action within seven days after the decision has been
rendered.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.046 STANDARDS GOVERNING CONDITIONAL USES.
   A conditional use shall ordinarily comply with the standards of the district
concerned for uses permitted outright except as specifically modified in
granting the conditional permit (see §§
153.092 and
153.093).
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
**** OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING ****
§ 153.060 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING TO BE PROVIDED.
   (A)   At the time of erection of a new structure or at the time of
enlargement or change in use of an existing structure within any district in
the municipality and its jurisdiction, off-street parking spaces shall be
provided in this section unless greater requirements are otherwise established.
   (B)   Where square feet are specified, the area measured shall be the floor
area primary to the functioning of the particular use of property and shall
exclude: stairwells; elevator shafts; hallways; ornamental balconies; space
occupied by heating, air conditioning or other utility equipment; and space
devoted to off-street parking or loading.
   (C)   The number of employees of a new or expanding business shall be
estimated in a manner approved by the Board of Adjustment and the number of
employees of an established business shall be determined from an examination of
the payroll.
Use Standard
Use                                   Standard
Commercial
(1) Rental store                      One space per 125 square feet of floor
                                      space.
(2) Service or repair shop            One space per 400 square feet of floor
                                      area.
(3) Offices                           One space per 300 square feet of floor
                                      area plus one space per two employees.
(4) Medical and dental clinic         One space per 200 square feet of floor
                                      area plus one space per two employees.
(5) Eating or drinking establishment  One space per 100 square feet of floor
                                      area.
(6) Mortuaries                        One space per four seats or eight feet
                                      of bench length in chapels.
Commercial amusements
(1) Stadium; arena; theater           One space per four seats or eight feet
                                      of bench length.
(2) Bowling alley                     Five spaces per alley plus one space per
                                      two employees.
(3) Dance hall; skating rink          One space per 100 feet of floor area
                                      plus one space per two employees.
Commercial/Residential uses
(1) Hotel                              
(2) Motel                              
                                      One space per two guest rooms plus one
                                      space per two employees.
                                      One space per guest room or suite plus
                                      one additional space for owner or
(3) Club; lodge                       manager.
                                      Spaces to meet the combined requirements
                                      of the uses being conducted such as
                                      hotel, restaurant, auditorium and the
                                      like.
Industrial
(1) Manufacturing establishment       One space per employee.
                                      One space per employee plus one space
(2) Wholesale establishment           per 700 square feet of patron serving
                                      area.
Institutions
(1) Convalescent hospital; nursing    One space per two beds for patients or
home; sanitarium; rest home; home for residents.
aged
(2) Hospital                          Three spaces per two beds.
Places of Public Assembly
(1) Church                            One space per four seats or eight feet
                                      of bench length in the main auditorium.
(2) Library; reading room             One space per 400 feet of floor area
                                      plus one space per two employees.
(3) Preschool nursery                 Two spaces per teacher.
(4) College; vocational school        One space per five seats in a classroom.
(5) Other auditoriums                 One space per four seats or eight feet
                                      of bench length.
Residential uses
(1) One-family dwellings and multi-   Two spaces per dwelling unit which may
family dwellings                      include the garage and driveway leading
                                      to the garage.
(2) Residential hotel; rooming or     Four spaces per five guest
boarding house                        accommodations plus one additional space
                                      for owner.
(3) Housing restricted to aged,       One-half space per unit.
disabled and the like
                                      One space per occupant for the first 20
(4) Dormitories and other lodging     occupants and a total number of spaces
facilities and rooms for unmarried    equal to 75% of the total number of
students                              occupants or 20 spaces, whichever is
                                      greater.
 
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.061 CONTINUING OBLIGATION.
   (A)   (1)   The provision and maintenance of off-street parking and loading
spaces is a continuing obligation of the property owner.
      (2)   Building or other permits shall not be issued until plans are
presented that show property that is and will remain available for exclusive
use as off-street parking and loading space.
   (B)    (1)   All required off-street parking, loading spaces and drive
approaches (that part of the drive extending from the property to the street
surfacing) shall be hard surfaced with concrete.
      (2)   The City Council may waive this requirement in the Agricultural,
Commercial and Industrial Districts.
   (C)    Off-street parking and loading spaces are not required in Central
Business District, except for residential uses.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009; Ord. 570-18, passed 6-25-2018)
**** SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 153.075 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified, district boundaries are lot lines or the
center line of streets, alleys, railroad rights-of-way or such lines extended.
Where a district divides a land parcel under a single ownership into two
districts, then the entire parcel shall be zoned for the less restrictive use
by the adjustment of the boundaries, provided the boundary adjustment is a
distance of less than 20 feet.
   (B)   If the adjustment involves a distance of more than 20 feet, the
procedures for a district change shall be followed.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.076 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses shall comply with all requirements for the principle
use except where specifically modified by this chapter and shall also comply
with the following limitations.
      (1)   A greenhouse or hothouse may be maintained accessory to a dwelling
only if there are no sales from the premises.
      (2)   A guest house may be maintained in a Residential District accessory
to a dwelling, provided there are no kitchen facilities in the guest house and
provided such guest house of the principle dwelling, and not as a rental unit
for permanent occupancy.
   (B)   The following uses of land are permitted in each zoning district
(unless restricted to particular zoning districts) subject to the specific
regulations and time limits which follow, and to the other applicable
regulations of the district in which the use is permitted:
      (1)   Christmas tree sales in any Commercial or Industrial District for a
period not to exceed 60 days. Display of Christmas trees need not comply with
the yard and setback requirements of this chapter, provided that no tree shall
be displayed within 30 feet of the intersection of the curbline of any two
streets;
      (2)   Contractor’s office and equipment sheds or trailers (containing no
sleeping or cooking accommodations) accessory to a construction project, and to
continue only during the duration of such project;
      (3)   Real estate offices incidental to a new housing development to
continue only until the sale or lease of all lots in the development;
      (4)   Seasonal sale of farm produce grown on the premises, to continue
for not more than four months per year. Structures incidental to such sale need
not comply with the applicable front yard requirements if the structures are
removed or moved back of the required front yard setback line at the end of the
season during which they are used; and
      (5)   Promotional activities of retail merchants involving the display of
goods and merchandise may be conducted outside of enclosed buildings for a
period of not more than two consecutive weeks in any three month period and
retail business may display only merchandise that is for sale within the
building in the area immediately adjacent to the building subject to the
following conditions.
         (a)   No portion of the display shall be on public owned property.
         (b)   No required off-street parking space or loading area will be
utilized for such display, storage or dispensing.
         (c)   These provisions shall in no way be deemed to authorize the
outdoor displays of, or the sales of, used furniture, used appliances, used
plumbing, used house wares, used building materials or similar display or sale
in any Business District.
   (C)   Only two accessory use buildings shall be permitted on an owner’s
property.
   (D)   Detached garages shall comply with front and side yard requirements of
the zoning district, where located. Detached garages may be located within five
feet of the rear lot line with parallel access or a minimum of 15 feet from
rear lot line if vehicle access is perpendicular to an alleyway but shall not
be located within or upon any easement.
   (E)   Detached accessory use buildings larger than 64 square feet, other
than garages, shall be located in the rear yard and shall comply with the side
yard requirements of the zoning district where located.
   (F)   Detached accessory buildings larger than 64 square feet may be located
within five feet of the rear lot line, shall be securely anchored to the ground
and shall not be located within or over any easement.
   (G)   Detached accessory use buildings smaller than 180 square feet shall be
securely anchored to the ground and shall be located in the rear yard, shall
comply with side yard requirements and shall be located entirely within the
rear yard but shall not be closer than five feet to the rear lot line.
   (H)   Accessory use buildings shall not be used for dwelling purposes.
   (I)   Accessory use buildings shall not be located closer than ten feet of
the principal building.
   (J)   Exterior building materials and architectural designs used for
accessory buildings exceeding 180 square feet shall be comparable to, similar
to or architecturally harmonious with the existing main residential structure
and compatible with the character of the surrounding residential areas, unless
specifically allowed by a conditional use permit.
   (K)   Compatible or similar to or architecturally harmonious with the
existing main residential structure or compatible with the character of the
surrounding residential areas shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Use of non-reflective exterior materials of a color, material and
scale comparable to existing structures in the residential area;
      (2)   A minimum roof pitch with a vertical rise of two and one-half
inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run; and
      (3)   Roof construction of non-reflective material which consists of or
simulates the appearance of asphalt, wood shingles, tile rock or metal roofing,
so long as the same is constructed in accordance with metal roof installation
guidelines.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009; Ord. 558-16, passed 10-24-2016)
§ 153.077 STANDARDS GOVERNING HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations shall be governed by the following regulations.
   (A)   Home occupations shall not occupy more than 20% of the total floor
area of the main building or, if located in an accessory building, shall not
occupy more than 15% of the total lot area.
   (B)   Home occupations shall be operated entirely from an enclosed structure
with no exterior storage of materials or equipment.
   (C)   The home occupation shall not change the dwelling’s residential
character.
   (D)   The operation shall not substantiality increase traffic in the area.
   (E)   The operation shall not be objectionable due to odor, dust, smoke,
noise, vibration or other similar causes.
   (F)   One sign mounted flush on the dwelling units may be displayed.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.078 PROJECTIONS FROM BUILDINGS.
   Cornices, caves, canopies, sunshades, gutters, chimneys, flues, belt
courses, leaders, sills, pilasters, lintels, ornamental features and other
similar architectural features may project not more than three feet into a
required yard or into required open space as established by coverage standards.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.079 MAINTENANCE OF MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   No lot area, yard or other open space, or required off-street parking or
loading area existing on or after the effective date of these regulations shall
be reduced in area, dimension or size below the minimum required by this
chapter, not shall any lot area which is required by this chapter for one use
can be used as the lot area, yard or other open space or off-street parking or
loading area requirement for any other use.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.080 GENERAL EXCEPTION TO LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If, at the time of passage of this chapter, a lot or the aggregate of
contiguous lots or land parcels held in a single ownership, has an area or
dimension which does not meet the lot size requirements of the district in
which the property is located, the lot or aggregate holdings may be occupied by
any use permitted outright in the district subject to the other requirements of
the district, and subject to the other requirements of the district, and
providing, if there is an area deficiency, residential use shall be limited to
a single-family residence.
   (B)   The minimum lot size requirements of (A) and (R) Districts shall not
apply to utility installations such as electric substations, sewer lift
stations, telephone exchanges, gas regulators and major transmission lines (not
including utility offices, repair, storage or production facilities).
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.081 EXCEPTIONS TO YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following exception to the front yard requirement for a dwelling
is authorized for a lot in any district.
   (B)   If there are dwellings on both abutting lots with front yards of less
than the required depth for the district, the depth of the front yard for the
lot may be the average front yard of the abutting dwellings.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.082 GENERAL EXCEPTION TO BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   The following type of structures or structural parts are not subject to the
building height limitations of this chapter: chimneys; tanks; church spires;
belfries; domes; monuments; fire and hose towers; observation towers;
transmission towers; masts; aerials; cooling towers; elevator shafts; and other
similar projections.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.083 ACCESS.
   All lots shall abut a street, other than an alley, for a width of at least
35 feet.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.084 VISION CLEARANCE.
   Vision clearance areas shall be provided with the following distance
establishing the size of the vision clearance area.
   (A)   In a Residential District, the minimum distance shall be 30 feet. At
alley intersections in a Residential District, the minimum distance shall be
ten feet.
   (B)   In all other districts, the minimum distance shall be 15 feet, or at
intersections, including an alley, ten feet, except that when the angle of the
intersection between streets is less than 30 degrees, the distance shall be 25
feet.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.085 SCREENING.
   Junkyards (salvage yards) shall be screened with an eight foot high opaque,
solid fence or earth berm so as to provide visual and aural separation between
such use and adjacent areas. All extractive industries shall be screened by
means of plant materials, earth mounding or solid fencing at least six feet in
height to provide visual and aural separation between such use and adjacent
areas.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.086 FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Generally. The requirements of this section apply to fences, walls and
hedges in the residential districts of the city as set forth in the official
Zoning District Map.
   (B)   Application. This section applies to all fences, walls and hedges with
a height of 30 inches or more, above finished grade.
   (C)   Permit required. Any owner or authorized agent who intends to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, relocate or demolish a fence or wall shall
first make application to the City Building Inspector and obtain the required
permit. The fee for such permit shall be the same as provided in the Uniform
Building Code Ordinance of said city and shall be paid to the city at the time
the permit is issued.
   (D)   Height.
      (1)   The maximum height of a fence, wall or hedge within a required
front yard or street side yard setback shall be 36 inches, however, a 42-inch
chain link fence or equivalent providing clear vision upon which no vegetation
will be permitted to grow is permissible under this section. The maximum height
of any fence, wall or hedge outside of a required front or street side yard
shall be six feet.
      (2)   Fence height shall also be in compliance with the following vision
clearance zone: Exceptions: Except on corner lots, a fence, wall or hedge shall
not exceed three feet in height, 30 feet each way from the corner of a lot
where two streets intersect; 15 feet each way from the corner of a lot where an
alley and/or driveway and a street intersect; or a driveway and alley
intersect; provided, however, a 42-inch chain link fence or equivalent
providing clear vision upon which no vegetation will be permitted to grow is
permissible under this section.
   (E)   Openness. Fences located in a required front yard or street yard
setback shall not exceed more than 50% opacity. All other fences, walls or
hedges built on residential property outside of required front or street side
yards may exceed 50% opacity.
   (F)   Materials.
      (1)   Materials used for fences and walls shall be durable and of a
character commonly used in residential applications, including:
         (a)   Weather-resistant or pre-finished (painted or stained and
sealed) wood;
         (b)   Ornamental wrought iron or powder-coated aluminum, except on
fences/walls that are used for screening purposes;
         (c)   Masonry (brick, stucco finished concrete, split face concrete
masonry units or stone), but not unfinished concrete block; and
         (d)   Chain link.
      (2)   Barbed wire is only permitted in Residential Rural Districts
outside the city limits where enclosing lots or tracts used exclusively for
crop production or animal husbandry.
   (G)   Fence/wall orientation and maintenance.
      (1)   Orientation. It is strongly encouraged that all fence runs be
finished and identical on both sides of the fence. In the event the fence is
not finished and identical on both sides of the fence, the finished side shall
face outward toward neighboring properties or adjacent rights-of-way.
      (2)   Maintenance. Fences and walls shall be maintained in an upright
position, not more than five degrees from vertical orientation, and in good
condition (e.g., free of rust, peeling paint or coatings, missing or broken
pickets, wood rot or graffiti).
   (H)   Protective fences around swimming pools. An outdoor swimming pools,
including an in-ground, above-ground or on-ground pool, hot tub or spa, in all
zoning districts shall be surrounded by a barrier in accordance with the most
recently adopted version of the building code, and any local amendments
thereto.
   (I)   Local restriction and drainage.
      (1)   No fence or wall shall be built on any lot or tract outside the
surveyed lot lines.
      (2)   No fence or wall shall be built which obstructs the flow of water
in natural drainage courses or drainageways created within easements.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009; Ord. 612-25, passed 7-28-2025) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.087 EXTRACTIVE INDUSTRIES, SALVAGE JUNKYARDS, KENNELS AND ANIMAL
HOSPITALS.
   Extractive industries, salvage junkyards, kennels and animal hospitals shall
be located a minimum of 300 feet from any Residential District.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.088 ANIMALS WITHIN THE CITY LIMITS AND RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   No horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine, poultry, fowl or other
livestock, or small animals when said small animals are raised or kept for
commercial purposes, nor any wild animals, shall be kept within the city
limits.
   (B)   In Residential Districts outside the city limits, the following rules
shall apply.
      (1)   Cows, horses, sheep, goats, poultry or other fowl shall not be kept
on lots having an area of less than one acres, and under no circumstances shall
they be kept for commercial uses.
      (2)   Domestic rabbits shall not be kept on lots having an area of less
than one-half acres.
      (3)   Animal runs or barns and chicken or fowl pens shall be located on
the rear half of the lot but not closer than 70 feet from the front lot line
nor closer than 50 feet from any residence.
      (4)   Animals, chickens and fowl shall be properly caged or housed, and
proper sanitation shall be maintained at all times. All animal or poultry food
shall be stored in metal or other rodent-proof containers.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.089 SWIMMING POOLS.
   A swimming pool may be permitted in any district as an accessory use subject
to the following additional requirements.
   (A)   No public or private swimming pool may be located in any required
front yard or side yard abutting a street.
   (B)   Every swimming pool must be completely surrounded by a fence or wall
not less than 48 inches in height with no openings large enough to permit
children to pass through other than gates or doors that can be fastened to
protect against entry. A dwelling house or accessory building may be used as
part of such required enclosure.
   (C)   All gates or doors opening through such enclosures must be equipped
with a self-closing and self-latching device for keeping the gate or door
securely closed at all times when not in actual use.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.090 BUILDINGS ON THE SAME LOT.
   Only one principal building for residential use shall be permitted on any
lot. More than one principal building for residential use or any multi-family
use for more than two-family use may only be approved as part of a planned unit
development under §§
153.130 through
153.149.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009; Ord. 570-18, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 153.091 DRIVE-IN FACILITIES.
   (A)   Any use permitted in a zoning district which intends to conduct a
portion or all of its business with persons desiring to remain in their
automobiles, or which allows products to be consumed on the premises outside
the principal building, and which is not subject to the conditional use
reviewed in provisions of §§
153.040 through
153.046, or is not part of a planned unit development under §§
153.130 through
153.149, must submit a site plan to be reviewed and approved by the governing
body.
   (B)   In reviewing and approving the site plan for such a use, the governing
body must be satisfied that the traffic circulation on and adjacent to the site
conforms to the following criteria.
      (1)   Traffic circulation shall be arranged so that internal pedestrian
and vehicular movements are compatible and traffic hazards are minimized.
      (2)   Traffic circulation, ingress and egress shall be arranged so as to
avoid hazardous or adverse effects on adjacent sites and streets.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.092 STORAGE AND PARKING OF MOBILE HOMES, TRAILERS AND COMMERCIAL
VEHICLES.
   Commercial vehicles and trailers of all types, including camping units,
travel and hauling trailers and mobile homes, shall not be parked or stored on
any lot occupied by a dwelling or on any lot in any Residential District,
except in accordance with the following provisions.
   (A)   Not more than one commercial vehicle, not to exceed one and one-half
tons rated capacity for each family living on the premises, shall be permitted;
and, in no case shall a commercial vehicle used for hauling explosives,
gasoline or liquefied petroleum products be permitted.
   (B)   Not more than one camping unit, travel or hauling trailer per family
living on the premises shall be permitted. Said trailer or camping unit shall
not be parked or stored for more than one week unless it is located behind the
front yard building lines.
   (C)   A mobile home shall not be stored in any required front or side yard.
   (D)   Automobile vehicles, trailers or vehicles of any kind, required to be
registered and licensed by laws of the state, which are without current license
plates, shall not be parked or stored other than in completely enclosed
building, provided however, that one such vehicle may be stored on the lot
outside of any enclosed building if it under a canvas cover and located behind
the front yard and not in side yard building lines.
   (E)   Repair and body shops may not be operated on any such lots.
   (F)   Vehicles and machinery that are being salvaged or used for parts may
only be kept in junkyards, which may not be located in any Residential
District.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009; Ord. 570-18, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 153.093 DESIGN AND REGULATORY PROCEDURE FOR MOBILE HOME PARK DEVELOPMENT.
   A plan, drawn to scale, of the general design of the mobile home court, and
showing the location of all rental lots, off-street parking, utilities and
accessory streets shall accompany any application for a conditional use permit.
Information and plan submittal shall meet the requirements set forth for §§
153.130 through
153.149.
   (A)   Park size.
      (1)   The minimum park size shall be two acres with a maximum size of
four acres.
      (2)   The maximum density shall be nine mobile homes per acre, excluding
minimum perimeter setback areas.
      (3)   Site development standards are as follows.
         (a)   Setbacks. Each mobile home park shall have a minimum perimeter
setback of 30 feet from adjacent nonresidential uses, and 50 feet from adjacent
residential uses, and 30 feet from any public street right-of-way. No space for
a dwelling unit or any other structure shall be permitted in the required
setback.
         (b)   Setback landscaping. All area contained within the required
setbacks except sidewalks and private drives shall be landscaped and screened
in conformance with this section. Screening shall be provided in conformance
with this for any common property line.
         (c)   Impervious coverage. Impervious coverage for a mobile home park
shall not exceed 50% of the total site area.
         (d)   Open space. Each mobile home park shall provide a minimum of 400
square feet of open recreational space per unit. Such space shall be provided
at a central location accessible from all parts of the park by pedestrians.
Required perimeter setback or buffers shall not be credited toward the
fulfillment of this requirement.
         (e)   Separation and setbacks for accessory buildings. An accessory
building on a mobile home space maintains a minimum rear and side yard setback
of five feet. A minimum distance of ten feet shall be provided between any
mobile home and an unattached accessory building. Required perimeter setback or
buffers shall not be credited toward the fulfillment of this requirement.
      (4)   Landscaping and screening requirements are as follows.
         (a)   Opaque barrier. A six-foot opaque barrier shall be provided
which visually screens as follows:
            1.   A solid wood and/or masonry fence or wall at least six feet in
height;
            2.   A landscaping screen, using evergreen or deciduous materials,
capable of providing a substantially opaque, hedge-like barrier and attaining a
minimum height of six feet within three years of planting;
            3.   A landscaped earth berm with a maximum slope of three to one,
rising no less than six feet above the existing grade; and
            4.   Any combination of these methods that achieves a cumulative
height of six feet.
         (b)   Locations of screening wall. A screening wall or fence shall be
installed no closer to adjoining use than one-half the width of the required
perimeter setback.
         (c)   Screening; effect on drainage. Screening shall not adversely
affect surface water drainage.
         (d)   Permitted interruptions of screening. Screening may be
interrupted to provide access drives to service area or, for loading purposes,
to buildings. Such breaks or interruptions shall not exceed 20% of the length
of the required screened area.
         (e)   Tree planting. One tree of an approved species with a minimum
caliper size of two inches shall be planted and maintained for each 500 square
feet of required landscaped area. Existing trees approved for preservation
shall be counted toward satisfaction of this requirement.
   (B)   Rental lot size. The minimum lot size for a mobile home placed upon a
rental lot within a mobile home park shall be 4,000 square feet for single wide
units and 6,000 square feet for double-wide units. Minimum lot width shall be
50 feet with a minimum lot length of 80 feet.
   (C)   Setback requirements for mobile homes placed in a mobile home park.
      (1)   The minimum distance between mobile homes and attached accessory
structures placed in a mobile home park shall be 20 feet measured by a straight
line between any two adjacent mobile homes.
      (2)   The minimum distance of a mobile home to the nearest public street
shall be 30 feet as measured from the rental lot line abutting the public
right-of-way to the nearest wall of the mobile home.
      (3)   The minimum distance of a mobile home to the nearest accessory
street located within the mobile home park shall be ten feet as measured from
the edge of the street to the nearest wall of the mobile home.
   (D)   Garages, carports. accessory buildings. Any additions to or accessory
uses to buildings for the mobile home shall be constructed in conformance with
setback requirements as required of the mobile home in division (A) above.
   (E)   General design standards-mobile home parks.
      (1)   Accessory roads through the mobile home park shall be 20 feet wide
or wider.
      (2)   Parking drives for mobile homes shall be ten feet wide or wider.
      (3)   There shall be two off-street parking spaces provided per mobile
home.
      (4)   Sewerage treatment and water facilities shall be provided in
accordance with regulations established by the State Department of Health and
as agreed to by the governing body.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009; Ord. 570-18, passed 6-25-2018) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.094 GENERAL DESIGN STANDARDS FOR SPECIAL SERVICES.
   (A)   Gasoline service stations shall have at least 10,000 square feet of
lot area and all surfaces associated with the sale of gasoline shall be on an
all-weather material.
   (B)   Pre-school or nursery schools not associated with the public school
system shall maintain a minimum of 100 square feet of play area per child.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.095 REQUIREMENTS PRIOR TO SALE OF PART OF A LOT OR PART OF A TRACT OF
LAND.
   (A)   Prior to the sale or prior to any development of a tract of land or
any part of a lot, the owner or owners of any continuous tract of land or lot
of less than one acre and sizable enough to locate a multiple number of
dwellings (two dwellings or more) shall submit six copies of their preliminary
plan, including the utilities, of the whole tract of land to the City Clerk’s
office at least ten days prior to the Planning Commission meeting.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall recommend to the governing body the
necessary or advised procedure to properly develop the whole tract of land or
lot. The governing body shall either approve, disapprove or modify the Planning
Commission’s recommendations.
   (C)   In no event shall the necessary and prescribed procedure for a tract
of less than one acre exceed in scope, detail and degree the requirements of §§
153.130 through
153.149 for planned unit developments exceeding one acre.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.096 METAL ROOFING GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Residential zoning.
      (1)   Standing seam steel roofing sheets shall be allowed subject to the
following standards.
         (a)   Roofing will be a minimum of 29-gauge with one-inch rib height.
         (b)   All metal roofing will be factory finished solid color.
         (c)   No metal roofs shall be painted or repainted after installation.
         (d)   All metal roofing shall be installed with hidden fasteners
(clips) and attached to manufactured trim, flashing and vents per
manufacturers’ recommendations.
         (e)   Only factory manufactured trim, flashing and vents will be
allowed.
         (f)   Darker colors are encouraged to minimize glare and reflection.
         (g)   The metal shingles designed to mimic lap shingles or tile
previously allowed or excluded from the prohibitions set out in the provisions
of this division (A)(1) shall continue to be allowed.
         (h)   The flat roof sections covered by a continuous, seamed or welded
sheet previously allowed or excluded from the prohibitions set out in the
provisions of this division (A)(1) shall continue to be allowed.
         (i)   Reflective metal roofs can be constituted as a public nuisance,
which may force removal at the owner’s expense.
      (2)   Permits must specify a particular type or form of roofing or
siding.
         (a)   No vertical sheet siding is allowed.
         (b)   Steel siding does not constitute metal roofing applied to
sidewalls.
         (c)   Any roofing or siding must be of uniform color, except for trim
areas.
         (d)   This does not apply to metal window trim, soffit, fascia or
associated trim.
         (e)   Steel or aluminum horizontal lap siding is allowed along with
appropriate trim.
         (f)   Any generally recognized steel ribbed roof sheets are
specifically not to be used in a residentially zoned area.
         (g)   This does not apply to commercially built utility sheds no
larger than eight feet by 12 feet or to approved commercially built car ports.
   (B)   Commercial zoning.
      (1)   Metal roof sheeting is allowed on all commercially zoned areas.
Recommended product is standing seam or high ribbed.
      (2)   Facades and frontages may also be covered with or trimmed with
metal.
      (3)   All metal buildings are allowed given zoning restrictions are
followed.
      (4)   By following zoning boundaries, building exteriors are kept
aesthetically autonomous and conflicts are eliminated.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009; Ord. 520-12, passed 2-28-2012; Ord. 522-12,
passed 7-23-2012; Ord. 531-13, passed 8-26-2013; Ord. 541-14, passed 12-22-
2014)
**** NONCONFORMING USES ****
§ 153.110 CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING USE OR STRUCTURE.
   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, a nonconforming structure or
use may be continued and maintained in reasonable repair but shall not be
altered or extended. A complete record of the location, value, nature and
extent of all nonconforming uses shall be made and kept by the Administrator.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.111 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.
   A structure conforming as to use, but nonconforming as to height, setback or
coverage, may be altered or extended; provided, that the alteration or
extension does not result in an increased violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.112 DISCONTINUANCE OF A NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   If a nonconforming use is discontinued from use for a period of 12
months, further use of the property shall be for a conforming use.
   (B)   If a nonconforming use involving a mobile home is discontinued from
use, further use of the property shall be for a conforming use.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.113 TERMINATION OF CERTAIN NONCONFORMING USES.
   A use which is nonconforming with respect to provision for screening shall
provide screening within a period of five years from the date of passage of
this chapter.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.114 CHANGE OF NONCONFORMING USE.
   If a nonconforming use is changed, it may be changed to a use similar to the
original nonconforming use subject to the approval of the Planning Commission
and the governing body.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.115 DESTRUCTION OF A NONCONFORMING USE.
   If a nonconforming structure or a structure containing a nonconforming use
is destroyed by fire, explosion or act of God, a future structure or use on the
property shall conform to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.116 COMPLETION OF BUILDING.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall require any change in the plans,
construction, alteration or designated use of a building which is under
construction at the time of adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.117 NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   In any district in which one-unit dwellings are permitted, a single-
family residence and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single
lot of record which exists as such at the time of adoption of this chapter.
Such a lot must have been in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage
with other lots under the same ownership.
   (B)   This provision shall apply even though such lots fail to meet the
requirements of the district; provided, that the requirements of the district
for minimum yard dimensions shall be met unless a variance to said requirements
has been granted by the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.118 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   No such sign may be enlarged or altered in such a manner as to
increase its nonconformity; however, any sign or portion thereof may be altered
to decrease its nonconformity.
   (B)   If any such sign or nonconforming portion thereof be destroyed by any
means, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the applicable
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   If any such sign should for any reason be moved from its location, it
shall conform to the provisions of the district in which it is located after it
is moved.
   (D)   The right to operate and maintain any nonconforming signs shall
terminate within three years after the adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.119 DISTRICT CHANGES.
   Whenever the boundaries of a district shall be changed, this subchapter
shall also apply to any nonconforming uses created as a result of the change.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
**** PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS ****
§ 153.130 GENERALLY.
   In view of the trend toward the development of group houses, planned
neighborhoods, shopping centers or other planned developments intended for
greater convenience of utility, which may necessitate variations from existing
regulations, such variations may be permitted, provided the development plan
meets all the requirements specified in this subchapter.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.131 APPLICATION.
   The owner or owners of any continuous tract of land, excluding land in
Agricultural District (A), of not less than one not more than ten acres, shall
submit an application to the Planning Commission for planned unit development.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.132 TYPES OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   The following types of planned unit development may be established by
placing a PUD overlay over the applicable existing zoning district or
districts. The overlays are as follows.
 
PUD-C Commercial  Permitted in District (C)
PUD-I Industrial  Permitted in District (I)
PUD-R Residential Permitted in District (R)
 
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.133 ZONING CHANGE.
   A zoning change is not required; however, each planned unit development
requires a public hearing and the development plan must be approved by the
governing body.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.134 PUD-R, RESIDENTIAL.
   The total number of dwelling units permitted in a planned unit development
shall equal the number of residences normally allowed within similar
boundaries. Multiple unit dwellings and commercial centers are allowable in the
PUD-R, as authorized by the Planning Commission and the governing body.
Commercial centers shall be subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   Such centers, including parking, shall be included as an integral part
of the PUD and shall not occupy more than 1.5% of the total area of the PUD.
   (B)   Except as stated in §
153.131, all requirements applicable to the (C) District and to the PUD-
C District are applicable to the commercial center in the PUD-R District.
   (C)   Such commercial centers shall be limited to categories reasonably
necessary to efficiently serve residents of the planned unit development in
which it is located.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.135 PUD-C, COMMERCIAL.
   Residential development is permitted when part of the overall development;
however, it must meet the requirements of residential uses normally required in
the (R) District.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.136 PUD-I, INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Residential uses are not permitted in planned unit industrial
developments.
   (B)   There shall be no retail uses unless they are accessory in nature and
are intended and designed to serve the group development. There shall be no
outside storage unless screened as required by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   No storage and industrial operation within 100 feet of residential
development shall be permitted.
   (D)   Building height shall not be greater than the height limitation
established for the district in which the development is located.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.137 SUBMISSION OF THE PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   The developer(s) shall prepare a preliminary plan together with improved
plans and other supplementary material as may be required to indicate the
general program and objectives of the project, and shall submit 18 copies of
the preliminary plan to the City Clerk’s office at least ten days prior to the
Planning Commission meeting.
   (A)   Scale. The preliminary plan shall be drawn on a sheet 18 by 24 inches
or a multiple thereof at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet.
   (B)   General information. The following general information shall be shown
on the preliminary plan:
      (1)   Proposed name of the PUD;
      (2)   Date, north point and scale of drawing;
      (3)   Clearly state the map is a preliminary plan;
      (4)   Location of the PUD and the names of adjacent subdivisions or the
name of the adjacent property owners; and
      (5)   Names and addresses of the owner, developer and engineer or
surveyor, landscape architect or any other persons involved in the planning of
the proposed development.
   (C)   Existing conditions. The following existing conditions shall be shown
on the preliminary plan:
      (1)   The location, width and names of all existing or platted streets
within or adjacent to the tract, together with easements, railroad right-of-way
and other important features such as section lines and corners, municipality
boundary lines and monuments;
      (2)   Location and direction of all water courses and areas subject to
flooding;
      (3)   Natural features such as rock outcropping, marshes, wooded areas
and isolated, preservable trees;
      (4)   Existing uses of the property, including location of all existing
structures to remain on the property after the development;
      (5)   The location within the development and in the adjoining streets
and property of existing sewers, water mains, culverts, drain pipes and the
electric and gas lines proposed to serve the property to be developed; and
      (6)   Zoning on and adjacent to the tract.
   (D)   Proposed plan of land partitioning. The following information shall be
included on the preliminary plan:
      (1)   Streets showing location, width, names and approximate grades. The
relationship of all streets to any projected streets as shown on any
development plan adopted by the Planning Commission, or, if there is no
complete development plan, as suggested by the Planning Commission to assure
adequate area traffic circulation;
      (2)   Easements, showing width and purpose;
      (3)   Lots, showing approximate dimensions, minimum lot sizes and
proposed lot and block numbers; and
      (4)   Sites, if any, allocated for various uses when more than one use is
involved.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.138 EXPLANATORY INFORMATION WITH PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   The following information shall be submitted in separate statements and maps
accompanying the preliminary plan or if practicable, shall be shown on the
preliminary plan:
   (A)   Improvements to be requested of the municipalities and the approximate
time such requested will be made;
   (B)   Detailed improvements to be made by the developer and the approximate
time such improvements are to be completed; and
   (C)   Other information that may be pertinent to the development.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.139 PRELIMINARY REVIEW OR PROPOSAL.
   Within two days after being submitted, the Administrator shall furnish the
specified number of copies of the preliminary plan and supplemental material to
appropriate municipal departments and to each of the following:
   (A)   County Engineer: one copy;
   (B)   Fire Department: one copy to each, if necessary;
   (C)   Park Department: one copy;
   (D)   Utility companies serving the proposed preliminary plan: one copy to
each:
      (1)   Electric;
      (2)   Gas;
      (3)   Telephone; and
      (4)   Water and sewer.
   (E)   School District Administrator: one copy; and
   (F)   State Department of Roads, if development is adjacent to a state
highway: one copy.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.140 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Within 60 days after receiving the preliminary plan for the proposed planned
unit development, the Planning Commission will review the plan and the reports
of the agencies specified in §
153.139 and will establish a public hearing date. Notice of the time, place and
purpose of the public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality not less than 20 days prior to the date of
hearing.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.141 PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
   Within 30 days after the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall
approve, approve conditionally or disapprove the plan.
   (A)   If the preliminary plan is disapproved or approved conditionally, the
reason for such action shall be stated in writing and transmitted to the
applicant. A second copy shall be filed in the Planning Commission files.
   (B)   (1)   If the plan conforms to all the standards, or after the
applicant and Planning Commission agree upon any revisions which shall be filed
with the Planning Commission on a revised copy, the applicant may proceed with
preparation of a final plan.
      (2)   These agencies will be given at least ten days to review the plans,
suggest revisions and return the plans to the Administrator’s office.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.142 FINAL PLAN.
   Within six months after tentative approval of the preliminary plan, the
developer shall cause the final plan to be prepared in conformance with the
preliminary plan as tentatively approved. At least five days prior to the
meeting of the Planning Commission, the developer shall submit the original
drawing of the final plan prepared on a linen in India Ink and three prints of
the final plan and supplementary information to the municipality. On the final
plan, space for the date and signatures of the following shall be included:
   (A)   Owners and developers of tract to be developed;
   (B)   Chairperson of Planning Commission; and
   (C)   Chairperson of the city.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.143 INFORMATION ON FINAL PLAN.
   The final plan shall include all the information required on the preliminary
plan with any changes or additions as previously required by the Planning
Commission when tentatively approved. The following information shall also be
included on, or accompany, the final plan:
   (A)   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having any
recorded title interest in the tract, consenting to the preparation and
recording of the final plan; and
   (B)   A certificate signed by the engineer or surveyor responsible for any
surveys made during preparation of the plan.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.144 PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION ON FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall review and act upon the final plan
within 60 days after it has been submitted for final approval. The Planning
Commission shall review and examine the final plan to determine that the plan
as shown is substantially the same as it appeared on the approved preliminary
plan and that there has been compliance with any conditions that might have
been attached to the preliminary plan.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may approve and shall send the final plan to
the governing body for official action, either approval or disapproval.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.145 FILING AND RECORDING.
   After the plan is duly approved and signed, the linen shall be made part of
the permanent file of the Zoning Administrator, and the zoning map shall be
corrected to show the attachment of the planned unit development.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.146 PERMIT.
   After filing and recording the final plan, the Planning Commission shall
notify the Administrator, in writing, to issue a permit for the planned unit
development.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.147 CHANGES IN PLAN.
   A building permit shall not be issued for any building which does not
conform to the plan, except that a reasonable adjustment to location and gross
floor area of individual buildings may be granted after a review by the
Planning Commission. If the Planning Commission does not approve the
adjustment, then the developer shall proceed in accordance with the final plan.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.148 TIME LIMIT.
   The developer shall make a reasonable effort to commence construction of the
proposed planned unit development within one year from the date of approval.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.149 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall apply to all planned unit developments.
   (A)   The tract must be a continuous parcel, one acre or more, under one
ownership or held jointly by two or more owners, or a group of owners who
combine to have a planned unit development.
   (B)   The proposed development shall be designed to produce an environment
of a stable and desirable character, not out of harmony with its surrounding
neighborhood and shall not conflict with the comprehensive plan or any parts
thereof.
   (C)   Buildings within a PUD may be relieved of district regulations
concerning yard size, setback, height, bulk and other requirements where such
requirements interfere with the overall development.
   (D)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with
the district.
   (E)   Signs shall be permitted in accordance with the district.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
**** BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT ****
§ 153.160 ESTABLISHMENT; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment for the city shall be established in
accordance with § 5, L.B. 317, 1st Session, 84th Legislature, Nebraska, and
hereinafter called the Board.
   (B)   The Board shall have the powers and duties ascribed by state law.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.161 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board may authorize variances from the requirements of this
chapter where it can be shown that, owing to special and unusual circumstances
related to a specific piece of property, the literal interpretation of this
chapter would cause undue or unnecessary hardship, except that no variance
shall be granted to allow the use of property for purposes not authorized
within the district in which the proposed use would be located.
   (B)   In granting a variance, the Board may attach conditions which it finds
necessary to protect the best interests of the surrounding property or
neighborhood and to otherwise achieve the purposes of this chapter. No variance
shall be granted unless it can be shown that all of the following conditions
are met:
      (1)   The strict application of this chapter would produce undue
hardship;
      (2)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
      (3)   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the charter of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance;
      (4)   The granting of such variance is based upon reasons of demonstrable
and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for purposes of
convenience, profit or caprice;
      (5)   The hardship does not result from the action of the owner of the
property; and
      (6)   The granting of such variance will not confer on the owner of such
property any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same district.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.162 ACTION ON A VARIANCE.
   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the conditions
or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the property is
not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably practical the
formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an amendment to the
ordinance.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.163 APPEALS FROM THE BOARD.
   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision of
the Board, may seek review of such decision by the district court in the manner
provided by the laws of the state and particularly by Neb. RS Chapter 23.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
**** DUTIES AND FEES ****
§ 153.175 DUTIES OF OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter that all questions of interpretation
and enforcement shall be first presented to the Administrator, and that such
questions shall be presented to the Board of Zoning Adjustment only on appeal
from the decision of the Administrator, and that recourse from the decision of
the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be to the courts as provided by law and
particularly by Neb. RS Chapter 23.
   (B)   It is further the intent of this chapter that the duties of the
governing body, as such, in connection with this chapter shall include hearing
and deciding questions of interpretation and enforcement that may arise. The
procedure for deciding such questions shall be as stated in this section and
this chapter. Under this chapter, the governing body shall have only the duties
of:
      (1)   Considering and adopting or rejecting proposed amendments or the
repeal of this chapter, as provided by law;
      (2)   Establishing a schedule of fees and charges as stated in §
153.176; and
      (3)   The fees associated with getting a building permit for construction
of a new residential house is waived up to an amount as set out by the Master
Fee Schedule. Any fee due over said amount will be due the city by the builder
or homeowner.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.176 FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The governing body shall establish a schedule of fees, charges
and expenses and a collection procedure for zoning permits, certificates of
zoning compliance, appeals, amendments to the official zoning map and other
matters pertaining to this chapter.
      (2)   The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the
administrator and the Municipal Clerk and may be altered or amended only by the
governing body.
   (B)   Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in
full, no action shall be taken on any application or appeal.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 153.190 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Administrator designated by the governing body shall have the power and
duty to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.191 FORM OF PETITIONS, APPLICATIONS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   All permits, petitions, applications and appeals provided for in this
chapter shall be made on forms provided for the purpose or as otherwise
prescribed by the Planning Commission or governing body in order to assure the
fullest practical presentation of pertinent facts and to maintain a permanent
record.
   (B)   All applications for building and occupancy permits shall be
accompanied by plans and specifications, drawn to scale, showing the actual
shape and dimensions of the lot to be used and/or built upon; the exact sizes
and locations on the lot of the buildings and other structures, existing and
proposed; the existing and intended use of each building, structure or part
thereof; the number of families to be accommodated, if any; and such other
information as is needed to determine conformance with the provisions of this
chapter and of the building code.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.192 PERMITS ON UNPLATTED LAND.
   There shall be no building permit issued on a plot which does not consist of
a platted lot or lots duly approved and recorded, except that on 20 acres or
more where the use of said land is entirely for agricultural purposes, a
building permit may be issued.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.193 PERMITS IN AREAS OF KNOWN FLOODING.
   There shall be no building permits issued for a structure to be used for
human habitation on a plot of land which is subject to flooding, except that a
permit may be issued if the grade elevation of such structure is located not
less than three feet above the highest official or known flood elevation.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.194 TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   The Administrator shall issue temporary permits for buildings to be
constructed and used for storage incidental to construction of buildings on the
property and for signs advertising a subdivision or tract of land or the lots
thereon.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.195 TIME LIMIT ON A PERMIT FOR A CONDITIONAL USE OR VARIANCE.
   A building permit for a conditional use or for a use involving a variance
shall be void after six months from the day of issuance if no construction has
taken place.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.196 INTERPRETATION.
   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter or of any
other resolution or regulation, the provisions which are more restrictive shall
govern.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   The owner or owners of any building or buildings or premises or part thereof
where anything in violation of this chapter exists or is placed or maintained;
and any architect, builder or contractor who assists in the commission of any
such violation; and all persons or corporations who violate or maintain any
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or who fail to comply
therewith or with any requirements thereof or who build in violation of any
statement of plan submitted and approved thereunder shall, for each and every
violation or noncompliance, be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 for each offense,
or other such amounts as set out by the Master Fee Schedule. Every person
violating or contributing in any way to be the violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each day during
which such violation continues and may be punished therefor as herein provided.
(Ord. 509-09, passed 11-23-2009)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
   
I.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
   
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
   
III.   ANNEXATIONS
   
IV.   STREET VACATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
248      4-5-1976    Granting a natural gas franchise to Nebraska Natural Gas
                     Company.
249      4-5-1976    Granting a non-exclusive electric light and power
                     franchise to Nebraska Public Power District.
329      7-6-1982    Granting a cable television franchise to Kable Systems I.
365      11-26-1990  Granting franchise for transmission lines to Nebraska
                     Public Power District.
403-97   2-17-1997   Amends Ord. 365; granting franchise for transmission lines
                     to Nebraska Public Power District.
414-99   2-22-1999   Granting a non-exclusive cable television franchise to
                     Great Plains Cable Television, Inc.
560-17   11-13-2017  Granting a non-exclusive cable television franchise to
                     Great Plains Cable Television, Inc.
                    
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     11-7-1977Rezoning the following described real estate from
272                 Residential to Commercial: Lots 6 and 7 and the south half
                     of Lot 8, Block 8, First Addition.
                     5-7-1984Rezoning the following described real estate from
336                 Residential to Commercial: Lots 4 and 5, Block 12, Second
                     Addition.
393                 10-24-1994Extending zoning jurisdiction in all directions
                     to a point one mile outside the corporate city limits.
431-01   10-11-2001  Rezoning a parcel of land from Agricultural to Commercial.
                     Rezoning the following described real estate from
555-16   6-27-2016   Commercial to Residential: Lots 6 and 7 and the south half
                     of Lot 8, Block 8.
                     Rezoning the following described real estate from
                     Commercial to Residential: Block 45, 8th Addition and
567-18   5-29-2018   adjoining former C & NW railroad right-of-way all located
                     in the northeast quarter and southeast quarter of Section
                     31, Township 20 North, Range 7 east of the 6th P.M.
                     Rezoning the following described real estate from
575-19   5-28-2019   Agricultural and Industrial to Commercial: Lots 6 and 7,
                     Block 12.
                     Rezoning the following described real estate from
579-19   6-24-2019   Agricultural and Industrial to Commercial: Lot 11,
                     excluding north 53 feet of Block 37, Sixth Addition.
                    
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing the following described property to the city:
496-08   4-28-2008   Lots 3, 4, 5 and 6, of Robinson s Subdivision, of the east
                     half of the northeast quarter of Section 36, in Township
                     20 North, Range 6 East of the 6th P.M.
530-13   4-22-2013   Annexing the following described property to the city: Tax
                     Lot 15; Tax Lot 16; and Tax Lot 39.
                     Annexing the following described property to the city:
611-25   - -2024     County Road 13 Boulevard from U.S. Highway No. 275 to the
                     southern corporate limits of the city.
                    
 
TABLE IV: STREET VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
535-14   3-24-2014   7th Street and Fairacres Road street right-of-way
                     vacation.
566-18   5-29-2018   Vacating a portion of the east/west Logan Street/Fairacres
                     Road adjoining Block 45 of the city.
576-19   4-22-2019   Vacating Fulton Street from Baker Street to Bridge Street
                     adjoining Block 12.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cites Code Section
Neb. RS Cites          Code Section
9-201 et seq.          113.01;
                       134.04
9-236                  113.01;
                       113.02
9-239                  113.02
9-301 et seq.          113.01;
                       134.04
9-401 et seq.          134.04
9-501 et seq.          113.01;
                       134.04
9-601 et seq.          113.01;
                       134.04
9-642.01               113.01
9-701                  134.04
9-801 et seq.          134.04
9-1101 et seq.         134.04
10-101—10-143        35.08
10-606—10-612        35.08
Chapter 11, Article 1  32.41
11-101                 33.26
11-104(2)              33.25
12-401—12-403        32.05;
                       91.01
12-403                 91.02
13-310                 151.27
13-312                 151.27
13-314                 151.27
13-505                 35.23
13-506                 35.22
13-507                 35.22
13-508                 35.23
13-509                 35.23
13-518—13-522        35.23
13-606                 35.02
13-2001—13-2043      55.01
13-2016.01             93.22
13-2020                55.02;
                       55.06
16-305                 30.02
16-311                 30.02
16-502                 31.04
16-691.01              35.07
16-714—16-716        35.06
17-103                 34.05
17-104                 30.32;
                       34.05
17-105                 33.04;
                       33.11
17-106                 33.05
                       30.15;
17-107                 31.01;
                       32.42;
                       34.05
17-108.02              31.02;
                       34.05
17-110—17-117        30.15
                       31.11;
17-121                 32.04;
                       93.01;
                       93.02
17-129                 131.01
17-140                 111.01;
                       111.02
17-142                 131.02
17-147                 32.20
17-148                 30.33
17-149                 54.01
17-150                 31.10
17-501                 32.08
                       10.99;
17-505                 30.45;
                       31.08
17-508                 151.40
17-509                 151.02
17-510—17-512        151.02
17-513—17-524        151.02
17-522                 151.27
17-524                 151.27
                       94.002;
                       94.026;
                       94.044;
                       94.046;
17-526                 94.047;
                       94.049;
                       94.051—
                       94.053;
                       94.075
17-531                 53.002
17-532                 53.021
17-534                 53.002
17-536                 53.038
17-537                 53.015;
                       53.016
17-538                 50.06
17-540                 35.07
17-541                 31.09
17-542                 53.016;
                       53.019
17-547                 94.002;
                       94.003
17-548                 94.060
                       92.01;
17-549                 92.02;
                       92.22
17-550                 92.20
                       93.16;
                       93.19;
17-555                 131.02;
                       151.04;
                       151.08
                       92.22;
17-556                 131.01;
                       133.50
                       131.02;
17-557                 151.05;
                       151.08
17-557.01              151.05;
                       151.08
17-563                 133.05
17-567                 151.03
17-568                 31.10
17-568.01              31.10
17-568.02              35.01
17-602                 34.02
17-607                 35.05
17-608                 35.07
17-609                 35.07
                       30.46;
17-613                 30.49;
                       30.50;
                       35.01
                       10.15;
17-614                 30.46;
                       30.47;
                       30.51
17-615                 30.49
17-616                 30.47;
                       33.11
17-701                 35.20
17-702                 35.04;
                       35.36
17-708                 35.03
17-709                 35.03
17-711                 35.03
17-714                 35.03
17-715                 35.03
17-718                 32.20
17-720                 35.06
17-803                 35.07
                       51.15;
17-902                 51.16;
                       51.20
17-902—17-909        51.01
17-919                 31.10
17-925.01              50.06;
                       54.01
17-941                 91.03
17-943                 91.99
17-948                 90.01
17-948—17-952        90.01;
                       90.45
17-949                 90.01;
                       90.46
17-951                 90.01
17-952                 90.01
17-953                 90.31
17-953—17-955        90.30
17-953 et seq.         32.20
17-1001                92.02
17-1261 et seq.        35.07
18-131                 30.48
18-132                 30.45
18-305—18-312        33.41
18-412.01              35.01
18-503                 50.06
18-1705                151.40
                       10.99;
                       92.02;
                       93.15—
                       93.17;
18-1720                93.19;
                       94.050;
                       94.999;
                       112.04;
                       130.03;
                       133.03
18-1722                10.99;
                       94.999
18-1736                72.25
                       72.25;
18-1737                72.26;
                       72.32
18-1741.01(2)          72.33
18-1741.03             72.33
18-1741.04             72.33
18-1741.06             72.33
18-1743                150.15
18-1748                151.43
18-1751                151.02
18-1756                35.01
18-1801—18-1805      35.08
18-2001—18-2004      151.41
18-2003                151.41
18-2005                151.40
18-2801 et seq.        35.20
18-3301                31.10
19-613                 30.02
19-710                 93.17;
                       93.18
19-907—19-910        32.03
19-912.01              32.03
19-915                 30.51
19-922                 30.45
19-925—19-929        32.02
19-929                 32.02
19-1301                35.04
19-1302                35.04
19-1303                35.04
19-1304                35.04
19-1305                53.002
19-1309                35.35
19-1310                35.35
19-1311                35.35
19-1312                35.35
19-2401                151.02
19-2408—19-2415      151.02
19-2416                151.40
19-2428—19-2431      151.02
                       51.15;
19-2701                53.015;
                       54.15
19-2901—19-2909      35.02
19-3101                30.30
19-3701                30.50
20-132                 90.31;
                       90.46
Chapter 23             153.163;
                       153.175
25-1801                50.05
25-2703                30.45
25-21,275              50.05
25-21,276              50.05
25-21,277              50.05
25-21,278              50.05
Chapter 28, Article 3  110.18
28-310                 131.03
28-318                 134.01;
                       134.03
Chapter 28, Article 4  110.18
28-401 et seq.         133.24
28-417                 133.24
28-431                 133.35
28-441                 133.24
28-501                 133.01
28-504                 133.01
28-509                 134.05
28-511                 134.05
28-511(4)              134.05
28-512                 50.07;
                       134.05
28-513                 134.05
28-514                 134.05
28-515                 134.05
28-515.02              50.04
28-517                 134.05
28-519                 91.10;
                       130.01
28-520                 130.02
28-521                 130.02
28-523                 90.02;
                       133.04
28-610                 132.01
Chapter 28, Article 7  110.18
28-710 et seq.         134.01
Chapter 28, Article 8  110.18
28-801                 134.01
28-804                 134.02
28-806                 134.03
28-830                 134.01
28-831                 134.01
28-833                 134.04
28-904                 132.02
28-906                 94.009;
                       94.042
28-908                 31.08
Chapter 28, Article 10 110.18
28-1004                94.008
28-1005                94.008
28-1008                94.007
28-1009                94.007
28-1012                94.007
Chapter 28, Article 11 110.18
28-1101                134.04
28-1102                134.04
28-1103                134.04
28-1104                134.04
28-1107                134.04
28-1108                134.04
28-1109                134.04
28-1110                134.04
28-1111                134.04
28-1112                134.04
28-1113                134.04
28-1117                134.04
Chapter 28, Article 12 110.18
28-1233(3)             92.04
28-1246-28-1250        92.35
28-1250                92.36
28-1321                93.19;
                       130.03
28-1322                131.05
28-1418                133.20
28-1419                133.21
28-1427                133.21;
                       133.22
28-1601                134.04
29-401 et seq.         133.65
29-422                 70.08
29-424                 70.08
29-4003                133.65
29-4013                133.65
31-1001 et seq.        152.13
31-1001—31-1022      152.01
Chapter 32             34.01
                       34.03;
32-101 et seq.         34.04;
                       35.04
32-110                 34.02
32-115                 34.02
32-404(2)              34.04
32-405                 34.03
32-505                 34.01
32-533                 30.15;
                       30.31
32-554                 34.05
32-556                 34.04
32-559                 34.03
32-560                 30.30
32-563                 30.02
32-567—32-572        30.30
32-568(3)              30.01
32-952—32-959        34.03
33-139.01              32.21
Chapter 34, Article 9  153.026
35-102                 31.08;
                       32.21
35-108                 32.21
39-301                 131.02
39-302                 131.02
39-602                 71.10
39-2512                31.09
43-245 et seq.         133.21;
                       134.01
43-248                 134.01
48-101 et seq.         32.21
48-115                 32.21
49-801(16)             10.05
49-1408                33.41
49-1425                33.41
49-1499.03—49-14,103 33.41
49-1499.04             33.41
49-14,102              33.41
49-14,103.01           33.41
49-14,103.02           33.41
49-14,103.03           33.41
49-14,103.04           33.41
49-14,103.05           33.41
49-14,103.06           33.41
51-201                 90.15
51-201—51-219        90.16
51-201.01              90.17
51-202                 32.01
51-204                 32.01
51-205                 90.16
51-207                 90.16
51-209                 90.15
51-211                 90.16—
                       90.18
51-212                 90.17
51-215                 35.04
51-216                 35.04
52-601.01—52-605     133.35
Chapter 53, Article 1  113.01
                       110.17;
                       110.18;
53-101 et seq.         110.19;
                       110.23;
                       110.24
53-103.01—53-103.51  110.01
53-124                 110.19
53-124(5)              110.19;
                       110.22
53-124(6)(iii)         110.36
53-124.11              110.21
53-124.12              110.22
53-125                 110.18
53-131                 110.19
53-131—53-134        110.15
53-132                 110.19
53-133                 110.19
53-134                 110.16;
                       110.19
53-134.03              110.19;
                       110.40
53-134.04              110.19
53-135                 110.20
53-135.01              110.19;
                       110.20
53-148                 110.23
53-174                 110.38
53-178                 110.35
53-179                 110.36
53-180                 110.02
53-183                 110.37
53-184                 110.39
53-186                 133.23
53-1,101               110.24
53-1,121               110.03
54-601                 94.052
54-602                 94.052
                       94.026;
54-603                 94.044;
                       94.046;
                       94.075
54-605                 94.044
54-606                 94.040
54-607                 94.002
54-617                 94.056
55-133                 70.01
60-136                 93.16
60-169                 133.35
60-301 et seq.         72.08;
                       133.35
60-331.01              72.27;
                       72.28
60-376                 133.35
60-3,113               72.25
60-3,113 et seq.       72.258;
                       72.33
60-3,113.02            72.27
60-3,113.03            72.33
60-4,126               73.06;
                       73.07
60-601—60-602        73.04
                       70.01;
60-601 et seq.         70.05;
                       70.06
60-606—60-676        70.01
60-607                 70.01
60-610                 70.01;
                       71.10
60-613                 70.01
60-622.01              73.08
60-624                 70.01;
                       73.07
60-631                 70.01
60-638                 70.01
60-646                 70.01
60-654                 70.01
60-656                 70.01
60-658.01              70.01;
                       71.06
60-661                 70.01
60-669                 70.01
60-670                 70.01
60-671                 70.01
60-672                 70.01
60-676                 70.01
60-678                 73.05
60-681                 70.04
60-682.01              71.06
                       73.06;
60-699                 73.07;
                       73.08
60-6,110               70.05
60-6,113               72.26
60-6,114               70.06
60-6,118               70.01
60-6,119—60-6,121    71.04
60-6,134.01            71.06
60-6,139               71.07
60-6,165               72.45
60-6,166               72.01
60-6,167               72.11
60-6,185               71.25
60-6,186               Ch. 74, Sched. II
60-6,190               Ch. 74, Sched. II
60-6,196—60-6,203    71.09
60-6,201               71.09
60-6,212               71.08
60-6,219               73.03
60-6,250               71.11
60-6,267               71.10
60-6,288               71.11
60-6,288—60-6,290    70.06
60-6,294               70.06
60-6,308               71.07
60-6,310—60-6,312    73.04
60-6,314—60-6,319    73.01
60-6,316               73.02
60-6,335               73.05
60-6,337               73.05
60-6,348               73.05
60-6,351               73.05
60-6,355—60-6,361    73.07
60-6,356               73.05
60-6,356—60-6,361    73.06
60-6,361               73.08
60-6,381               73.08
60-1901                133.35
60-1902                133.35
60-1903                133.35
60-1903.01             133.35
60-1903.02             133.35
60-1904                133.35
60-1905                133.35
60-1906                133.35
60-1907                133.35
60-1908                133.35
60-1909                133.35
60-1911                133.35
60-2410                133.35
69-204                 112.03;
                       112.05
70-624.04              33.41
70-1601                50.01
70-1601—70-1615      50.04
70-1602                50.03
70-1605                50.03
70-1606                50.03
70-1607                50.03
70-1608—70-1614      50.03
70-1615                50.03
70-2001—70-2005      51.61
70-2002                51.61
70-2103                130.02
71-605                 91.06
71-1908—71-1923      133.65
71-4401                94.040
71-4402                94.025;
                       94.043
71-4406                94.027;
                       94.054
71-4603                133.35
72-1237 et seq.        35.07
73-101 et seq.         35.01
73-801 et seq.         35.01
77-2337                35.04
77-2341                35.07
77-2362—77-2364      35.05
77-2364                35.06
77-2365.01             35.05
77-2366                35.05;
                       35.06
77-2386—77-23,106    35.05
77-2386 et seq.        35.05
77-23,109 et seq.      35.07
77-3011 et seq.        134.04
                       35.35;
77-3442                90.01;
                       90.15
77-3443                90.15
77-3444                34.03
81-506                 31.08
81-512                 31.08
81-520.01              92.21;
                       92.22
81-1444                32.41
81-1438—81-1446      31.01
84-1409                33.01
84-1410                33.07
84-1411(4)             33.03;
                       33.06
84-1412                33.08;
                       33.12
84-1413(1)             33.12
84-1413(2)             33.11
84-1413(3)             33.11
84-1413(4)             33.12
84-1413(5)             33.12
84-1413(6)             33.12
                       
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2025 Code
Prior Code        2025 Code
11.01             11.01
30.01             30.30
30.10             30.15
30.20             30.31
30.21             30.32
31.01             31.01
31.02             31.02
31.03             31.03
31.04             31.09
31.06             31.07
31.07             31.08
31.09             31.11
31.10             31.12
32.01             32.01
32.02             32.02
32.03             32.03
32.04             32.04
32.05             32.05
32.06             32.06
32.07             32.07
32.35             32.40
32.36             32.41
32.37             32.42
33.01             33.01
33.02             33.02;
                  33.99
33.03             33.04
33.04             33.05
33.05             33.07
33.06             33.06
33.07             33.12
33.08             33.11
33.09             33.03
33.10             33.08
33.12             33.10
33.45             33.40
34.02             34.03
34.03             34.04
34.04             34.05
34.05             34.06
35.01             35.01
35.02             35.02
35.06             35.05
35.07             35.06
35.32             35.22
35.33             35.23
50.02             50.02
50.07             50.07
50.15             50.20
50.16             50.21
50.17             50.22
50.18             50.23
50.19             50.24
51.01             51.01
51.02             51.02
51.15             51.15
51.16             51.16
51.17             51.17
51.18             51.18
51.19             51.19
51.20             51.20
51.21             51.21
51.22             51.22
51.23             51.23
51.35             51.35
51.36             51.36
51.37             51.37
51.38             51.38
52.01             52.01
52.02             52.02
52.03             52.03
52.04             52.04
52.05             52.05
52.06             52.06
52.07             52.07
52.20             52.20
52.21             52.21
52.22             52.22
52.23             52.23
52.24             52.24
52.25             52.25
52.35             52.40
52.36             52.41
53.01             53.001
53.02             53.002
53.03             53.003
53.04             53.004
53.15             53.015
53.16             53.016
53.17             53.017
53.18             53.018
53.19             53.019
53.20             53.020
53.21             53.021
53.22             53.022
53.35             53.035
53.36             53.036
53.37             53.037
53.38             53.038
53.39             53.039
53.40             53.040
53.41             53.041
53.55             53.055
53.56             53.056
53.57             53.057
53.58             53.058
54.01             54.01
54.15             54.15
54.16             54.16
54.17             54.17
54.18             54.18
54.19             54.19
54.20             54.20
54.21             54.21
54.22             54.22
54.23             54.23
54.35             54.35
54.36             54.36
54.37             54.37
70.02             70.02
70.03             70.03
70.06             70.08
70.07             70.08
70.08             70.08
71.02             71.01
71.03             71.02
71.04             71.03
71.05             71.04
71.06             71.05
71.07             71.06
71.08             71.07
71.09             71.08
72.05             72.02
72.30             72.25
72.31             72.26
72.32             72.27
72.33             72.28
72.34             72.29
72.35             72.30
72.36             72.31;
                  72.99
72.37             72.32
72.38             72.33
73.01             73.01
73.02             73.02
73.03             73.03
73.04             73.04
73.05             73.05
Ch. 74, Sched. I  Ch. 74, Sched. I
Ch. 74, Sched. II Ch. 74, Sched. II
90.25             90.30
90.26             90.31
90.27             90.32
90.40             90.45
90.41             90.46
90.42             90.47
90.43             90.48
91.01             91.01
91.02             91.02
91.03             91.03
91.04             91.04
91.05             91.05
91.06             91.06
91.07             91.07
91.08             91.08
91.09             91.09
91.10             91.10
91.99             91.99
92.01             92.01
92.02             92.02
92.03             92.03
92.04             92.04
92.05             92.05
92.15             92.20
92.16             92.21
92.25             92.35
93.20             93.16
93.24             93.19
93.25             93.20
93.26             93.22
93.27             93.23
94.03             151.08
94.22             151.27
94.41             151.41
95.02             94.003
95.06             94.007
95.07             94.008
95.60             94.075
95.61             94.076
95.62             94.077
95.63             94.078
95.64             94.079
95.65             94.080
95.66             94.081
95.67             94.082
95.68             94.083
95.69             94.084
95.70             94.085
95.71             94.086
95.99             94.999
110.03            110.03
110.04            110.04
110.20            110.15
110.22            110.19
110.23            110.20
110.24            110.22
110.51            110.36
110.52            110.37
110.53            110.38
111.01            111.01
111.02            111.02
111.15            111.15
111.16            111.16
111.17            111.17
111.18            111.18
111.19            111.19
111.20            111.20
111.21            111.21
111.22            111.22
111.23            111.23
111.24            111.24
111.25            111.25
111.26            111.26
113.01            112.01
113.02            112.02
113.03            112.03
113.04            112.04
113.05            112.05
114.01            113.01
114.02            113.01
130.03            130.04
131.03            131.03
131.06            131.04
132.03            134.02
132.05            134.05
133.01            133.01
133.03            133.02
133.04            133.05
133.07            133.23
133.08            133.24
133.40            133.65;
                  133.99
150.10            150.15
153.01            53.070
153.02            53.071
153.03            53.072
153.99            53.999
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
208      11-6-1972   54.36
209      11-6-1972   54.37
-        8-30-1973   35.23
215      8-30-1973   31.02
222      10-1-1973   32.06
226      3-4-1974    53.004
230      12-2-1974   31.08
232      12-2-1974   32.01
234      12-2-1974   71.07
236      12-2-1974   92.36
240      1-6-1975    32.06
245      7-7-1975    150.16
246      10-6-1975   151.08
248      4-5-1976    TSO Table I
249      4-5-1976    TSO Table I
252      7-6-1976    110.36
253      7-12-1976   30.15
254      7-12-1976   30.30
255      7-12-1976   30.32;
                     33.10
258      7-12-1976   31.07
                     33.01—
                     33.03;
                     33.06—
259      7-12-1976   33.08;
                     33.11;
                     33.12;
                     33.99
260      7-12-1976   34.04
261      7-12-1976   35.01
263      7-12-1976   71.12
264      7-12-1976   70.02
265      7-12-1976   134.05
266      7-12-1976   133.05
269      7-5-1977    150.01
272      11-7-1977   TSO Table II
279      11-7-1978   113.03
281      1-2-1979    33.11
283      1-2-1979    113.02
284      1-2-1979    110.36
285      1-2-1979    71.09
286      1-2-1979    32.03
287      1-2-1979    110.37
288      1-2-1979    31.01
289      1-2-1979    34.01
290      1-2-1979    34.06
291      1-2-1979    35.23
292      1-2-1979    35.02
294      1-2-1979    32.04
295      1-2-1979    130.04
297      1-2-1979    133.23
                     72.25—
301      1-2-1979    72.28;
                     72.31;
                     72.99
304      1-2-1979    32.02
311      10-1-1979   30.48
314      3-3-1980    35.01
316      3-3-1980    71.08
317      3-3-1980    73.04
318      3-3-1980    151.41
319      3-30-1980   151.02
321      3-3-1980    110.03
329      7-6-1982    TSO Table I
330      1-3-1983    Ch. 74, Sched. II
336      5-7-1984    TSO Table II
341      12-3-1984   90.33
350      8-4-1986    110.15—
                     110.17
355      1-11-1988   32.08
357      5-2-1988    53.024
361      6-26-1989   150.16
363      10-23-1989  150.16
365      11-26-1990  TSO Table I
368      12-17-1990  30.30
369      12-17-1990  30.02
370      12-17-1990  31.02
371      12-17-1990  71.10
372      12-17-1990  94.007
373      12-17-1990  94.008
375      12-17-1990  113.02
376      5-20-1992   110.36
384      4-26-1993   33.01
385      4-26-1993   33.07
                     72.25—
386      4-26-1993   72.31;
                     72.99
387      4-26-1993   72.32;
                     72.33
391      5-23-1994   112.01—
                     112.05
393      10-24-1994  TSO Table II
395      10-24-1994  150.16
396      1-23-1995   93.22
398      4-24-1995   53.070—
                     53.072
403-97   2-17-1997   TSO Table I
404-97   7-28-1997   94.075—
                     94.086
408-98   10-26-1998  35.05
409-98   10-26-1998  35.06
410-98   10-26-1998  35.01
411-98   10-26-1998  32.02
412-98   10-26-1998  71.06
413-98   10-26-1998  71.06
414-99   2-22-1999   TSO Table I
417-99   12-27-1999  110.36
418-00   1-24-2000   32.07
                     50.07;
                     50.21;
                     50.23;
                     52.01—
423-00   12-27-2000  52.06;
                     52.20—
                     52.25;
                     52.40;
                     52.41
426-01   8-27-2001   ;
                     94.999
                     50.20;
427-01   8-27-2001   50.24;
                     53.020
428-01   8-27-2001   50.20
429-01   8-27-2001   32.40—
                     32.42
431-01   10-11-2001  TSO Table II
                     50.07;
                     50.20—
                     50.23;
                     51.01;
433-01   11-26-2001  51.02;
                     51.15—
                     51.23;
                     51.35—
                     51.38
435-01   12-18-2001  92.02
436-02   5-28-2002   133.24
437-02   5-28-2002   73.05
438-02   6-24-2002   50.23
439-02   8-26-2002   50.23
441-02   10-28-2002  50.23
442-02   12-23-2002  50.23
444-03   5-27-2003   53.055—
                     53.058
447-03   6-23-2003   94.003
448-03   6-23-2003   94.003
                     53.070—
449-03   7-28-2003   53.072;
                     53.999
454-04   2-23-2004   34.03
455-04   2-23-2004   35.05
456-04   2-23-2004   150.15
461-04   8-23-2004   94.075
464-04   10-25-2004  131.04
465-05   1-3-2005    52.07
466-05   2-28-2005   33.07
467-05   2-28-2005   151.27
469-05   2-28-2005   110.19
470-05   2-28-2005   110.20
471-05   2-28-2005   110.22
472-05   2-28-2005   110.04
473-05   2-28-2005   110.36
474-05   4-25-2005   32.07
476-05   9-26-2005   132.03
                     50.23;
479-05   11-28-2005  52.22;
                     53.016;
                     54.15
480-06   2-27-2006   113.01
481-06   2-27-2006   113.01
482-06   5-22-2006   133.65;
                     133.99
483-06   8-28-2006   Ch. 74, Sched. I
                     50.02;
484-06   8-28-2006   50.22;
                     50.24
485-06   8-28-2006   73.05
489-07   8-27-2007   30.01
                     33.02;
490-07   8-27-2007   33.07;
                     33.99
491-07   8-27-2007   54.16
493-07   10-22-2007  33.25
494-07   10-22-2007  35.09
495-07   12-19-2007  31.06
496-08   4-28-2008   TSO Table III
497-08   9-9-2008    31.04
678      10-7-2008   94.058
500-09   3- -2009    73.06;
                     73.99
505-09   9-28-2009   73.07;
                     73.99
506-09   10-26-2009  32.09
                     153.001—
                     153.008;
                     153.020—
                     153.027;
                     153.040—
                     153.046;
                     153.060;
                     153.061;
                     153.075—
                     153.096;
509-09   11-23-2009  153.110—
                     153.119;
                     153.130—
                     153.149;
                     153.160—
                     153.163;
                     153.175;
                     153.176;
                     153.190—
                     153.196;
                     153.999
512-10   7-26-2010   94.075
513-10   11-22-2010  110.04
518-11   12-27-2011  153.008
                     93.15—
523-12   - -2012     93.17;
                     93.99
519-12   2-28-2012   52.22
520-12   2-28-2012   153.096
522-12   7-23-2012   153.096
526-12   9-24-2012   110.36
528-12   10-22-2012  110.36
530-13   4-22-2013   TSO Table III
531-13   8-26-2013   153.096
533-13   10-28-2013  90.03;
                     90.99
535-14   3-24-2014   TSO Table IV
537-14   4-28-2014   33.40
541-14   12-22-2014  153.096
542-15   5-26-2015   93.19;
                     93.99
545-15   11-23-2015  92.35;
                     92.99
546-15   12-21-2015  73.08;
                     73.99
                     150.30—
548-16   2-26-2016   150.38;
                     150.99
551-16   2-29-2016   94.075
                     93.16;
552-16   4-25-2016   93.21;
                     93.99
555-16   6-27-2016   TSO Table II
                     153.008;
558-16   10-24-2016  153.021;
                     153.076
559-17   8-28-2017   110.21
560-17   11-13-2017  TSO Table I
568-18   4-23-3018   153.021
566-18   5-29-2018   TSO Table IV
567-18   5-29-2018   TSO Table II
569-18   5-29-2018   51.17;
                     51.18
                     153.061;
570-18   6-25-2018   153.090;
                     153.092;
                     153.093
                     135.01—
571-18   12-17-2018  135.06;
                     135.99
576-19   4-22-2019   TSO Table IV
575-19   5-28-2019   TSO Table II
579-19   6-24-2019   TSO Table II
582-19   10-28-2019  53.072
583-19   12-23-2019  33.04
584-20   3-30-2020   53.070;
                     53.999
585-20   3-30-2020   52.07
                     55.01—
587-20   5-27-2020   55.06;
                     55.99
                     53.015—
586-20   6-22-2020   53.017;
                     53.023;
                     53.042
588-20.1 8-24-2020   92.22;
                     92.99
                     94.009;
590-20   12-28-2020  94.025—
                     94.027
593-21   9-13-2021   32.06;
                     32.07
592-21   9-27-2021   50.20
596-22   8-29-2022   150.02
599-22   12-27-2022  52.07
590-20   4-24-2023   94.040—
                     94.060
601-23   5-22-2023   50.08
                     50.02;
602-23   5-22-2023   50.22;
                     50.24
595-22   9-25-2023   94.010
605-23   10-23-2023  72.13
603-23   11-27-2023  153.007;
                     153.021
606-23   12-26-2023  133.65
611-25   - -2024     TSO Table III
612-25   7-28-2025   153.086
615-25   12-22-2025  10.99;
                     30.50
                     152.01—
                     152.13;
                     152.25—
616-25   12-22-2025  152.28;
                     152.40—
                     152.43;
                     152.99
                    
 
