LAGUNA NIGUEL, CALIFORNIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through ordinance 2025-239 published 2-17-2026
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ROSTER OF OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF LAGUNA NIGUEL, CALIFORNIA
City Council
Ray Gennawey
Gene Johns
Kelly Jennings
Stephanie Oddo
Stephanie Winstead
Officials
Tamara Letourneau  City Manager
Justin Martin      Assistant City Manager
Marissa Asistin    City Clerk
 
TITLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   1.   CODE ADOPTED
   2.   CITY SEAL
   3.   CITATIONS IN LIEU OF IMMEDIATE ARRAIGNMENT
***** CHAPTER 1: CODE ADOPTED *****
Section
1-1-1   Declaration of purpose
1-1-2   Establishment of municipal code
1-1-3   Contents of code
1-1-4   Outline of code
1-1-5   Maintenance of code
1-1-6   Interpretation of code and other ordinances
1-1-7   Effect of code on past actions and obligations
1-1-8   Partial invalidity of provisions
1-1-9   Territorial limitation
1-1-10   Local signification
1-1-11   Rules of construction
1-1-12   Effect of headings
1-1-13   Meanings of section and division
1-1-14   Acts by deputies
1-1-15   Writing defined
1-1-16   References to ordinances or parts of code
1-1-17   Statute of limitations
1-1-18   Definitions
1-1-19   Violations generally
1-1-20   Aiding or abetting violation
1-1-21   Establishment of offenses as infractions
1-1-22   Penalties
1-1-23   Imprisonment in county jail
1-1-24   Violations deemed public nuisances
1-1-25   Recovery of expenses for abatement of nuisances
1-1-26   Violation of administrative provisions by city officers and employees
1-1-27   Method of service of notices
1-1-28   Proof of service of notices
§ 1-1-1 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that the establishment of a municipal code is
desirable to provide a scheme for the classification and grouping of its
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.001), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-2 ESTABLISHMENT OF MUNICIPAL CODE.
   This code shall be known as the “Laguna Niguel Municipal Code”, and any
ordinance adding to, amending or repealing provisions of this code shall be
known as an addition or amendment to or a repeal of the Laguna Niguel Municipal
Code, or any portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.002), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-3 CONTENTS OF CODE.
   (A)   The Laguna Niguel Municipal Code shall consist of all ordinances
adopted by the City Council which are of a general and permanent nature.
   (B)   The following ordinances which are not considered to be of a general
and permanent nature need not be included within the municipal code:
      (1)   The naming of streets or roads;
      (2)   Ordinances granting, altering or withdrawing franchises;
      (3)   Ordinances levying real property taxes;
      (4)   Ordinances calling an election;
      (5)   Annexation proceedings;
      (6)   Interim zoning measures;
      (7)   Ordinances zoning or rezoning a particular parcel of property; and
      (8)   Such other ordinances of a special or particular subject matter
which the Council considers inappropriate to a compilation of laws of a general
and permanent nature.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-3) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.003), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-4 OUTLINE OF CODE.
   (A)   Ordinances to be included in the municipal code shall be organized and
grouped according to subject matter.
   (B)   Ordinances which are adopted from time to time shall be classified and
organized under the following titles:
      (1)   General Provisions;
      (2)   Administration and Personnel;
      (3)   Revenue and Finance;
      (4)   Reserved;
      (5)   Business and Special Licenses; Business Regulations;
      (6)   Health and Sanitation;
      (7)   Highways, Rights-of-Way and Vehicles;
      (8)   Building Regulations;
      (9)   Planning and Zoning;
      (10)   Animals;
      (11)   Public Morals, Safety and Welfare;
      (12)   Reserved; and
      (13)   Parks and Recreational Facilities.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-4) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.004), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-5 MAINTENANCE OF CODE.
   (A)   Copies. At least three copies of this code, duly certified by the City
Clerk, shall be maintained on file in the office of the City Clerk as official
copies of this code. Additional copies shall be distributed to the departments
of the city as prescribed by the City Manager.
   (B)   Filing of changes. Duly certified copies of each ordinance making a
change in this code shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk in books for
such purpose, duly indexed for ready reference.
   (C)   Updating. At least semi-annually, the City Clerk shall cause changes
in this code to be shown by reproducing the affected pages with the ordinance
number and the date on which such change was adopted. Such reprinted pages
shall be distributed in order that this code may be brought up to date.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-5) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.005), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-6 INTERPRETATION OF CODE AND OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of this code and all other city ordinances shall be construed
to carry out the stated legislative purpose and intent.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-6) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.010), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-7 EFFECT OF CODE ON PAST ACTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Neither the adoption of this code or any part thereof nor the repeal
by this code of any ordinance previously in effect within the territorial
boundaries of the city shall, in any manner:
      (1)   Affect the enforcement of any ordinance for a violation occurring
prior to the effective date of this code;
      (2)   Be construed as a waiver of any license fee or penalty due and
unpaid under such ordinance;
      (3)   Be construed as affecting provisions of such ordinances relating to
the collection of license fees, or civil or criminal penalties imposable
thereunder; and
      (4)   Affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit required to be
posted, filed or deposited pursuant to any such ordinances.
   (B)   All vested rights and obligations arising from such ordinances shall,
moreover, continue in full force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-7) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.020), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-8 PARTIAL INVALIDITY OF PROVISIONS.
   If any chapter, section, sentence, clause or portion of this code is for any
reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-8) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.030), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-9 TERRITORIAL LIMITATION.
   This code shall refer only to the omission or commission of acts within the
territorial limits of the city and that territory outside of the city over
which the city has jurisdiction or control by virtue of the California
Constitution or any other law, or by reason of ownership or control of
property.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-9) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.040), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-10 LOCAL SIGNIFICATION.
   All references in this code to places, acts, persons or things and all else
in relation to this code shall be construed to mean that the references are
applicable to this city, whether the city is mentioned in each particular
section or not.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-10) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.050), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-11 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   Unless the provisions of this code otherwise specifically provide, or the
context of this code indicates to the contrary, the general provisions, rules
of construction and definitions set forth in this subchapter shall govern the
construction of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-11) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.100), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-12 EFFECT OF HEADINGS.
   The title, chapter, subchapter, article and section headings contained in
this code shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect
the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any title, chapter,
subchapter, article or section of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-12) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.110), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-13 MEANINGS OF SECTION AND DIVISION.
   As used in this code, the term SECTION shall mean a section of this code,
unless some other source is specifically set forth. The term DIVISION shall
mean a division of the section in which the term occurs, unless some other
section is expressly set forth.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-13) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.120), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-14 ACTS BY DEPUTIES.
   Whenever a power is granted to or a duty is imposed upon a public officer or
employee, the power may be exercised or the duty may be performed by a deputy
of such officer or employee or by a person otherwise duly authorized pursuant
to law or ordinance, unless this code expressly provides otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.130), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-15 WRITING DEFINED.
   As used in this code, the term WRITING includes any form of recorded message
capable of comprehension by ordinary visual means. Whenever any notice, report,
statement or record is required or authorized by this code, such notice,
report, statement or record shall be made in writing in the English language,
unless this code expressly provides otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-15) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.140), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-16 REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES OR PARTS OF CODE.
   Whenever any reference is made in this code to an ordinance, the reference
shall apply to such ordinance of the city, unless this code expressly provides
otherwise. Whenever any reference is made to any portion of this code or to any
ordinance of the city, the reference shall apply to all amendments and
additions to this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-16) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.150), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-17 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   When a limitation or period of time prescribed in any existing ordinance or
statute for acquiring a right or barring a remedy, or for any other purpose,
has begun to run before this code goes into effect, the time which has already
run shall be deemed a part of the time prescribed as such limitation.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-17) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.160), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-18 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   As used in this code, unless a different meaning is apparent from the
context or is specified elsewhere in the code, the following words, terms and
phrases shall have the meanings designated in this section.
      CALENDAR YEAR. From January 1 through December 31, of any given year.
      CITY. The City of Laguna Niguel.
      CITY MANAGER. The appointed official of the city who occupies the
position of chief administrative officer of the city.
      COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Laguna Niguel.
      COUNCIL MEMBER. A person duly elected to the Council.
      COUNTY. The County of Orange.
      FISCAL YEAR. From July 1 of any given year through June 30 of the
following year.
      GENDER. The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      GOODS. Means and includes wares and merchandise.
      MAY. The term is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month, unless otherwise specifically expressed.
      NUMBER. The singular number includes the plural, and the plural number
includes the singular.
      OATH. Includes affirmation.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Wherever certain hours are named, they shall mean
standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the city.
      OPERATE. Carrying on, keeping, conducting or maintaining.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant, tenant in common or joint tenant, of the whole or a part of such
building or land.
      PERSON. Includes any person, firm, company, corporation, partnership,
association, public corporation or city (except the City of Laguna Niguel), the
County of Orange, any district in the County of Orange, the State of California
or the United States of America, or any department, agency or political
subdivision of such entities, unless this code expressly provides otherwise.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and
evidences of debts.
      POLICE. The agency which performs the appropriate law enforcement
function for the city. The term POLICE CHIEF or CHIEF OF POLICE means the head
of the agency or division which at the time involved has responsibility for
performing the police function for or within the city.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      QUARTERLY. Where used to designate a period of time, means the first
three calendar months of any given year or succeeding period of three calendar
months.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SALE. Includes any sale, exchange, barter or offer for sale.
      SHALL. The term is mandatory.
      STATE. The State of California.
      STREET. Includes all streets, highways, avenues, boulevards, alleys,
courts, places, squares or other public ways in the city which have been or may
hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property so
designated in any law of the state.
      TENANT and OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, includes any person
who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
      TENSE. The present tense includes the past and future tense, and the
future tense includes the present tense.
   (B)   Words and phrases not defined in this code shall be construed
according to the approved usage of the language, or, when appropriate, by
reference to definitions contained in state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-18) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.170), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-19 VIOLATIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to violate any provision or to fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this code, or the provisions of any code
adopted by reference by this code, or any provision of any uncodified city
ordinance. Any person violating any such provisions or failing to comply with
any of the mandatory requirements of this code or any code adopted by reference
by this code or any other city ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
unless such violation is specifically designated in this code as constituting
an infraction; provided that where the City Attorney or other prosecutor
determines that such action would be in the interests of justice, the City
Attorney or other prosecutor may prosecute any such offense as an infraction.
In the event a notice to appear is prepared as a misdemeanor, the City Attorney
or other prosecutor may nonetheless prosecute any such offense as an
infraction.
   (B)   Violators shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day
during any portion of which any violation of any provision of this code, or any
provision of any code adopted by reference by this code, or of any other city
ordinance, is committed, continued or permitted by such person, and may be
punished accordingly.
§ 1-1-20 AIDING OR ABETTING VIOLATION.
   Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful by this code, it shall include
causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or concealing the fact of such
act or omission.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-20) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.210), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-21 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFENSES AS INFRACTIONS.
   Any violation expressly declared to be punishable, in the discretion of the
court, by either a fine, or by a fine or imprisonment, or both, shall become an
infraction for all purposes under any of the following circumstances:
   (A)   Where a judgment imposes a punishment of a fine not exceeding $100.00
in the case of a first offense;
   (B)   When the court grants probation to a defendant without the imposition
of a sentence and, at the time of granting probation, or, on application of the
defendant or probation officer thereafter, the court declares the offense to be
an infraction; or
   (C)   When the City Attorney or any deputy district attorney files in a
court having jurisdiction over misdemeanor offenses a complaint specifying that
the offense is an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-21) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.220), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-22 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Misdemeanors. Any conviction of a misdemeanor under the provisions of
this code shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000.00, or by
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not exceeding six months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Infractions. Any conviction of an infraction under the provisions of
this code shall be punishable for a first conviction by a fine of not more than
$100.00, for a second conviction within a period of one year by a fine of not
more than $200.00 and for a third or any subsequent conviction within a period
of one year by a fine of not more than $500.00.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-22) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.230), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-23 IMPRISONMENT IN COUNTY JAIL.
   Imprisonment for violation of any city ordinance shall be in the county
jail.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-23) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.240), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-24 VIOLATIONS DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   In addition to other penalties provided by law, any condition caused
or permitted to exist in violation of any provision of this code, or any such
threatened violation, shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be summarily
abated as such by the city.
   (B)   Any such violation or threatened violation as referred to in division
(A) above, or any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of
the provisions of any code adopted by reference by this code or of the
provisions of any other city ordinance, shall be deemed a public nuisance,
which may be abated by the City Attorney in a civil judicial action.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-24) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.250), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-25 RECOVERY OF EXPENSES FOR ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any person creating, causing, committing or maintaining a
public nuisance as referred to in §
1-1-24, or other public nuisance as defined under state law or other ordinances
or regulations, has been given notice by or on behalf of the City Attorney or
by any other city officer, employee or policing agent authorized to give such
notice, to abate such nuisance or cease and desist from continuing such
nuisance or violation of law, and such person fails, refuses or neglects to
comply with the notice within the time specified therein, or, if such a time is
not specified, then within a time reasonably sufficient to enable such
compliance, such noncomplying person shall be liable to the city for any and
all costs and expenses involved in the abatement of the nuisance and in
obtaining compliance with or enforcing the law as referred to or encompassed
within the notice.
   (B)   Costs and expenses as referred to in division (A) above may include,
but are not limited to, any and all direct costs and expense related to such
things as personnel salaries and benefits, operational overhead, rent,
interest, fees for experts or consultants, legal costs or expenses, including
attorneys’ fees, claims against the city arising as a consequence of the
nuisance or violation and procedures associated with collecting monies due
under this section.
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) above shall also apply to any person
who received a notice and, as specified therein, abated the nuisance or
violation, but subsequently allowed or was responsible for a recurrence of the
nuisance or violation.
   (D)   The liability of any person for the payment of the costs and expenses
provided for in division (A) above may be waived in whole or in part by the
City Attorney in any case wherein they determine, in their sole discretion,
that the failure or refusal of such person to comply with the notice was based
upon a good faith reliance upon an issue of law or fact specially involved in
the circumstances of the case. Any determination or decision of the City
Attorney in this regard shall be final and conclusive and shall not be subject
to appeal as prescribed in Title 2, Chapter 2.
   (E)   Money due to the city pursuant to this section may be recovered in an
appropriate civil action or by special assessment proceedings against the
parcel of land upon which the nuisance existed, conducted substantially in
accordance with California Government Code, §§ 39574 et seq., relating to weed
abatement assessments.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-25) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.260), passed 12-1-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see §
11-14-1 et seq.
§ 1-1-26 VIOLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS BY CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The violation of or the failure or omission to perform in accordance with
any administrative provision of this code by any officer or employee of the
city shall generally not be considered a criminal act, but may be deemed a
failure to perform the duties or to observe the rules or regulations of the
department, office, commission or board within the meaning of the civil service
ordinances and rules and regulations of the city, if applicable.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-26) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.270), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-27 METHOD OF SERVICE OF NOTICES.
   Whenever a notice is required to be given, or may be given, under any
provision of this code or any provision of any code adopted by reference by
this code or any provision of any ordinance or resolution of the city not
included within this code, such notice may be given as provided in this
section. Unless different or special provisions are otherwise specifically made
in this code or in some other applicable enactment, any such notice may be
given either by personal delivery thereof to the person to be notified, or by
deposit in the United States mail in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid,
addressed to such person to be notified, at the person’s last known residence
or business address as the address appears in the public records or other
records pertaining to the matters to which such notice is directed. Service by
mail shall be deemed to have been completed at the time of deposit in the post
office or in the official receptacle thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-27) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.300), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 1-1-28 PROOF OF SERVICE OF NOTICES.
   Proof of giving any notice may be made by the certificate of any officer or
employee of the city or by the affidavit or declaration under penalty of
perjury of any person over the age of 18 years, which shows service in
conformity with this code or other provision of law applicable to the subject
matter concerned.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-28) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.01.310), passed 12-1-1989)
***** CHAPTER 2: CITY SEAL *****
Section
1-2-1   Adoption
§ 1-2-1 ADOPTION.
   A corporate seal for the city shall be adopted and approved by the City
Council by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.04.010), passed 12-1-1989)
***** CHAPTER 3: CITATIONS IN LIEU OF IMMEDIATE ARRAIGNMENT *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Citations in Lieu of Arraignment
1-3-1   Notice to appear in lieu of arrest
1-3-2   Issuance of citations by designated officers and employees
1-3-3—1-3-10   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Administrative Citations
1-3-11   Legislative purpose and applicability
1-3-12   Definitions
1-3-13   Administrative citation general
1-3-14   Warnings for certain continuing violations
1-3-15   Administrative citation contents
1-3-16   Service procedure
1-3-17   Amount of civil fines
1-3-18   Satisfaction of administrative citation
1-3-19   Reserved
1-3-20   Request for administrative hearing
1-3-21   Waiver of fine deposit
1-3-22   Hearing procedures
1-3-23   Administrative hearing decision
1-3-24   Right to judicial review
1-3-25   Collection of unpaid fines
1-3-26   Administrative rules and regulations
1-3-27   Severability
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. CITATIONS IN LIEU OF ARRAIGNMENT ****
§ 1-3-1 NOTICE TO APPEAR IN LIEU OF ARREST.
   In any case in which a person is arrested for a violation of any provision
of this code and does not demand to be taken before a magistrate, such person
may, in lieu of being taken before a magistrate, be issued a written notice to
appear in court and then may be released, all pursuant to and in accordance
with the procedures prescribed by California Penal Code, §§ 853.6 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.08.010), passed 12-1-1989; Ord. 2006-
142, § 1, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 1-3-2 ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS BY DESIGNATED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the city who have the discretionary duty to
enforce a statute or ordinance may, pursuant to California Penal Code, § 836.5
and subject to the provisions of this section, arrest a person without a
warrant whenever any such officer or employee has reasonable cause to believe
that the person to be arrested has committed an offense in the officer’s or
employee’s presence which they have the discretionary duty to enforce, and to
issue a notice to appear, and to release such person on their written promise
to appear in court, pursuant to California Penal Code, § 853.6. No officer or
employee shall be allowed by their superior to exercise the arrest and citation
authority conferred in this section unless such officer or employee is within a
classification of city officers and employees designated by resolution of the
City Council to exercise such arrest and citation authority as to specified
violations. Any such officer or employee shall be appropriately instructed to
deposit executed citations or notice with the Police Department for filing with
the court, after review for legal sufficiency.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (1.08.050), passed 12-1-1989; Ord. 2006-
142, § 1, passed 2-21-2006)
§§ 1-3-3—1-3-10 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS ****
§ 1-3-11 LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The City Council hereby finds that there is a need for an additional
method of enforcing the provisions of this code.
   (B)   The City Council finds that an appropriate additional method of
enforcement of this code is an administrative citation program as authorized by
California Government Code, § 53069.4.
   (C)   The procedures for the imposition, enforcement, collection and
administrative review of civil fines established in this subchapter shall be in
addition to, and not in lieu of, any criminal, civil or other legal remedy
established by law and available to the city to address violations of this
code.
   (D)   The purpose of issuing administrative citations pursuant to this
subchapter is to encourage voluntary and complete compliance with the
provisions of this code in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the city; to provide a method of holding persons
responsible when they fail or refuse to comply with the provisions of this
code; and to minimize the expense and delay where the otherwise sole remedy is
to pursue responsible persons in the civil or criminal justice system.
   (E)   The issuance of an administrative citation under this subchapter is
solely at the city’s discretion and is one option the city has to address
violations of this code. By adopting this subchapter, the city does not intend
to limit its discretion to utilize any other remedy, civil or criminal, for
such violations that the city may select in a particular case.
   (F)   This subchapter makes any violation of the provisions of this code
subject to administrative citation and civil fine. A violation of this code
includes, but is not limited to, all violations of any ordinance, regulation,
rule or law applicable to the city, and any failure to comply with any
condition imposed by any entitlement, agreement or environmental document
issued or approved under the provisions of this code.
   (G)   Because of the serious blighting conditions that can result affecting
the residents’ health and safety, this subchapter is intended to impose strict
civil liability upon the owners and lessees of real property for all building,
housing, fire and health code and zoning violations that occur upon the subject
premises.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-11) (Ord. 2006-142, § 1, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 1-3-12 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION or CITATION. A written notice to a responsible
person that a violation of this code has occurred and an assessment of civil
fines issued by an enforcement officer of the city.
   BUILDING VIOLATION. Any violation of this code pertaining to building,
plumbing, electrical or other similar structural or zoning regulations set
forth in this code that does not create an immediate danger to health or
safety.
   CITY. The City of Laguna Niguel.
   CITY ATTORNEY. The City Attorney, or their designee.
   CODE. The Laguna Niguel Municipal Code or any ordinance adopted by the City
Council, including, but not limited to, the subdivision code, the zoning code,
the building code and all uniform codes or other codes or regulations of the
state or the county duly adopted by reference or otherwise applicable to the
city.
   CONTINUING VIOLATION. Each day that a violation of this code continues to
exist, which shall constitute a new, separate and distinct violation. Either:
      (1)   A particular violation of the code continuing for more than 24
hours without correction or abatement; or
      (2)   A repeated, consecutive violation of the same offense without
intervening days.
   DIRECTOR or ISSUING DIRECTOR. Director of the Issuing Department or their
designee.
   DIRECTOR OF FINANCE. The City Director of Finance or their designee.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any officer, employee or agent of the city designated
by the City Manager in writing to have the authority and responsibility to
enforce provisions of this code, including, but not limited to, code
enforcement officers, Sheriff’s deputies, building and safety inspectors and
public works inspectors.
   HEARING OFFICER. The person appointed by the City Manager to serve as the
hearing officer for administrative hearings, including for, but not limited to,
administrative citations, nuisance violations and abatement orders.
   ISSUED. Giving a citation to the responsible person and issuance occurs on
the date when a citation is personally served on the responsible person, the
date it is mailed to the responsible person or the date it is posted on real
property where a property related violation occurs.
   ISSUING DEPARTMENT. The city department that has the authority and
responsibility for enforcing the code section(s) designated on a citation as
having been violated.
   NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE. A written notice issued to a responsible person by an
enforcement officer confirming that the violation has been corrected.
   NOTICE OF DECISION. A written notice used to inform a responsible person of
a decision made regarding an administrative citation issued pursuant to this
subchapter.
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION. A written notice to a responsible person advising that
a violation of this code has occurred and warning that an administrative
citation assessing fines will be issued unless the violation is ceased and
abated.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON.
      (1)   Any of the following who may be held liable for a code violation
and issued an administrative citation:
         (a)   A person who causes a code violation to occur;
         (b)   A person who maintains or allows a code violation to continue by
their action or failure to act;
         (c)   A person whose agent, employee or independent contractor causes
a code violation by its action or failure to act;
         (d)   A person who is the owner of, and a person who is a lessee or
sublessee with the current right of possession of, real property where a
property related code violation occurs; and
         (e)   A person who is the on-site manager of a business who normally
works daily at the site when the business is open and is responsible for the
activities at such premises.
      (2)   For purposes of this subchapter, PERSON includes a natural person
or legal entity, and the owners, majority stockholders, corporate officers,
trustees and general partners of a legal entity.
      (3)   For the purposes of this subchapter, there may be more than one
responsible person for a code violation.
      (4)   For the purposes of this subchapter, a minor at least 14 years of
age may be a responsible person subject to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-12) (Ord. 2006-142, § 1, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 1-3-13 ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION GENERAL.
   (A)   Any responsible person may be issued an administrative citation
assessing a civil fine as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   Any enforcement officer, upon determining that a provision of this
code that they are charged to enforce has been violated, has the authority to
issue an administrative citation to any responsible person or persons. Pursuant
to this authority, the enforcement officer shall determine the appropriate
responsible person(s) for each violation.
   (C)   An enforcement officer may issue a citation for a violation the
officer did not see occur if the officer has determined through investigation
that the person is a responsible person.
   (D)   A responsible person shall be liable for and shall pay to the city the
fine or fines described in the citation when due pursuant to the provisions of
this subchapter. Administrative citation fines shall be a debt to the city and
subject to all remedies for debt collection as allowed by law. The city may
pursue any legal remedy to collect the administrative fines, including, without
limitation, the referral of such collection to a collection agency.
   (E)   Each and every day a violation of this code exists constitutes a
continuing violation that will be subject to a separate fine.
   (F)   Every person who applies for and receives a permit, license or any
type of land use approval (e.g., subdivision maps, site development permits,
use permits and variances) shall comply with all plan approvals and conditions
imposed upon the issuance of the permit, license or approval. If a person
violates any condition of such permit, license or approval, they may be issued
an administrative citation and be liable for civil fines under the provisions
of this subchapter.
   (G)   The city may take into consideration the fact that a person has been
issued citations when the city is determining whether to grant, suspend, revoke
or deny any permit, license or any type of land use approval for the person and
such citations are evidence that the person has committed acts that are not
compatible with the health, safety and general welfare of other persons and
businesses in the vicinity.
   (H)   The owner of any premises within the city has the responsibility for
keeping such premises free of violations related to the use or condition of the
property. The owner of such premises is a responsible person and shall be
separately liable for violations committed by tenants or occupants relative to
the use or condition of the property.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-13) (Ord. 2006-142, § 1, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 1-3-14 WARNINGS FOR CERTAIN CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In accordance with California Government Code, § 53069.4, no
responsible person shall be assessed a civil fine under this subchapter for a
continuing violation pertaining to building, plumbing, electrical or other
similar structural or zoning regulation without first receiving a warning and
reasonable opportunity to correct or otherwise remedy the violation. The
procedures of this section shall not apply to violations that pose immediate
danger to public health or safety. Each department head shall maintain a list
for their department generally describing those violations that pose an
immediate danger to public health or safety.
      (1)   In such circumstance, the enforcement officer shall issue a notice
of violation requiring cessation or abatement of the violation within a stated
period of time prior to the assessment of civil fines. The stated period
available to correct or otherwise remedy the violation prior to assessment of
fines shall be appropriate to the violation as determined by the enforcement
officer. The correction period shall be at least five calendar days for
violations for which abatement requires construction activities. The
enforcement officer may impose a shorter correction period for violations that
can be immediately abated without construction activities, such as illegal
temporary signs, banners, balloons and human signs.
      (2)   If, after the correction period stated in the notice of violation,
the violation has not been corrected, the enforcement officer may issue an
administrative citation and begin imposing fines upon the responsible person.
The fine shall accrue on each day the violation exists without correction. The
responsible person to whom the administrative citation is issued shall be
liable for and shall pay to the city the fine or fines described in the
administrative citation which shall be due on the date the administrative
citation is issued. Additional citations may be issued and fines imposed for
every day the violation continues uncorrected from the date the administrative
citation is issued and the responsible person shall be liable for and shall pay
to the city any additional fine which shall be due on the date any new citation
is issued.
   (B)   Any responsible person cited for a continuing violation may request
from the Director of the Issuing Department an extension of time to correct the
violation so long as the request is filed with the Director before the end of
the correction period. The Director may, at their discretion, grant an
extension of time to correct the violation if the responsible person has
supplied sufficient evidence showing that the correction cannot reasonably be
made within the stated period. The Director’s decision shall be in writing and
is final. The filing for such an extension does not, unless granted, extend the
correction period or any other time periods set by this subchapter.
   (C)   The procedures of this section shall not apply in the instance of a
violation that poses immediate danger to public health or safety. The Director
or their designee(s) shall maintain a list for their department generally
describing those violations that pose an immediate danger to public health or
safety.
   (D)   If, upon reinspection, the enforcement officer determines the
violation has been corrected, they will issue a notice of compliance to the
responsible person indicating correction has been made.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-14) (Ord. 2006-142, § 1, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 1-3-15 ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION CONTENTS.
   Each notice of violation and each administrative citation shall contain the
following information:
   (A)   Name of the person who is charged as a responsible person for the
violation(s);
   (B)   Date(s) and approximate time of the violation(s);
   (C)   Address or definitive description of the location where the violation
(s) existed or occurred;
   (D)   The code sections or permit conditions violated and a description of
the violation(s);
   (E)   Designation of whether the offense is a continuing violation and how
much time the responsible person has to correct the violation;
   (F)   The date on which the citation is issued;
   (G)   Issuing Department for the code section(s) violated;
   (H)   The amount of the fine for the violation(s), if applicable, including
the amount due for the initial violation(s) and any prospective daily fine for
failure to correct the violation(s) (if applicable to a continuing violation);
   (I)   An explanation of how the fine shall be paid and the time period by
which it shall be paid;
   (J)   Designation of building violation(s) (if applicable), including the
correction period, date the correction period expires, the procedure to request
an extension of the correction period and that an administrative citation will
be issued if the building violation has not been timely corrected;
   (K)   Designation of any prior citations issued for the same code violation
(s), if known by the enforcement officer;
   (L)   Notice to the responsible person to immediately correct the violation
(s) and an explanation of the consequences of failure to correct the violation
(s);
   (M)   An explanation of how the correction of the violation(s) can be
properly verified (if applicable);
   (N)   Description of the procedure for requesting an administrative hearing
to contest the issuance of a citation and/or a waiver of the fine deposit,
including a place to obtain a form for making these requests and the date by
which these requests must be submitted;
   (O)   A notice that the code violation(s) is a nuisance and that collection
of unpaid fines and/or nuisance abatement costs can be enforced and collected
through any means authorized by law;
   (P)   The name and signature of the enforcement officer and, if possible,
the signature of the responsible person;
   (Q)   An order prohibiting the continuation or repeated occurrence of the
code violation(s) described in the administrative citation; and
   (R)   Any other information deemed necessary by the City Attorney or
Director of Finance for enforcement or collection purposes.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-15) (Ord. 2006-142, § 1, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 1-3-16 SERVICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   An enforcement officer may issue a notice of violation and/or an
administrative citation in accordance with this subchapter to a responsible
person. The notices of violation and administrative citations shall be on a
form approved by the City Manager and the City Attorney.
   (B)   Service of notices of violation and administrative citations shall be
in accordance with any of the following procedures.
      (1)   Personal service. In any case where an administrative citation is
issued, the following shall apply.
         (a)   The enforcement officer may personally serve the responsible
person and obtain the signature of the responsible person on the administrative
citation.
         (b)   If the responsible person served refuses or fails to sign the
administrative citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall not affect the
validity of the citation or of subsequent proceedings.
      (2)   Service of citation by mail.
         (a)   The administrative citation may be mailed to the responsible
person’s address shown on the county’s last equalized property tax assessment
rolls for a property-related violation, or to any address known for the
responsible person for all other violations, by certified mail, postage prepaid
with a requested return receipt.
         (b)   Simultaneously, the citation may be sent by first class mail. If
the citation is sent by certified mail and the certification is returned
unsigned, then service shall be deemed effective pursuant to first class mail;
provided the citation sent by first class mail is not returned.
      (3)   Service of citation by posting notice. The enforcement officer may
post the administrative citation on any real property in a conspicuous place
within the city in which the city has knowledge that the responsible person has
a legal interest, or as otherwise required by applicable laws, and such posting
shall be deemed effective service, and shall further mail the administrative
citation after posting.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-16) (Ord. 2006-142, § 1, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 1-3-17 AMOUNT OF CIVIL FINES.
   (A)   If the violation described in §
1-3-14(A) has not been corrected or otherwise remedied in accordance with that
section, the amount of the fines for violating this code that may be imposed by
administrative citation are as follows:
      (1)   $100.00 for the first violation of a provision of this code,
ordinance or permit condition;
      (2)   $200.00 for the second violation of the same provision of this
code, ordinance or permit condition; and
      (3)   $500.00 for each additional violation of the same provision of this
code, ordinance or permit condition.
   (B)   The City Council may, by adoption of a resolution, establish a
schedule of fines for violating particular provisions of the code. The amount
of the fines contained in such a schedule shall supersede the amount of the
fines set forth in division (A) above.
   (C)   The schedule of fines may also specify the amount of a late payment
penalty, interest and processing fee owed for any fine not paid when due. A
late payment penalty and interest shall be owned for fines not paid within 20
days of the date of issuance of the citation.
   (D)   Fines are due in accordance with §
1-3-18, except when a fine deposit has been waived pursuant to §
1-3-21. If a citation for a violation is contested and the hearing officer
upholds the citation following the hearing, the fine shall be due 20 days after
the decision is served upon the responsible person in accordance with this
subchapter.
   (E)   In addition to the penalties provided in this code, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this code
shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be, by the city, summarily abated as
such, and each day such condition continues shall be deemed as a continuing
violation.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-17) (Ord. 2006-142, § 1, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 1-3-18 SATISFACTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a citation, the responsible person must do the
following:
      (1)   Pay the fine to the city and deliver to either the city or the
city’s contracted agent specified on the administrative citation within 20 days
from the issuance date of the administrative citation. All fines assessed shall
be payable to the city. Payment of a fine shall not excuse or discharge the
failure to correct the violation(s) nor shall it bar further enforcement action
by the city, including, but not limited to, issuing additional administrative
citations, initiating and pursuing abatement actions and filing and pursuing
criminal complaints; and
      (2)   If the offense is a continuing violation and the responsible person
fails to properly correct the violation, fines shall accrue for each day until
the correction is properly verified. Additionally, subsequent administrative
citations may be issued for continuing violation(s). The amount of the fine for
failure to correct the violation shall be charged or increased at the rate
specified in this subchapter or by resolution.
   (B)   At any time following 20 days after the issuance of the citation, the
city may deliver a collection bill to the responsible person requiring payment
for all outstanding amounts owned for the violation, including the amount due
for the initial violation and any accrual of daily fines from the date the
citation was issued to the date the correction of the offense is properly
verified (if applicable), plus any appropriate late payment charge, interest
and/or processing fee less any amount remitted pursuant to division (A) above.
   (C)   The correction of a continuing violation must be verified by an
enforcement officer of the city. The responsible person shall contact the
telephone number designated on the citation and schedule an inspection by an
enforcement officer. Fines shall accrue until the correction is verified by the
city.
   (D)   The City Manager, or their designee, shall be authorized to establish
policies and procedures for the payment, receipt and processing of fines.
   (E)   In the event that the responsible person requests an administrative
hearing pursuant to §
1-3-22, the accrual of the late penalty and interest will be stayed, pending a
decision by the hearing officer. The accrual of the late penalty and interest
will resume if the hearing officer issues a final decision upholding the
administrative citation, and shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 20
days after the hearing officer’s final decision.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-18) (Ord. 2006-142, § 1, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 1-3-19 RESERVED
[Reserved]
§ 1-3-20 REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   (A)   The responsible person may contest the citation by filing a request
for an administrative hearing. To obtain a hearing, the responsible person
shall file a signed, complete written request on a form provided by the city
and state the grounds for contesting the citation and fine. The hearing will be
limited to such written grounds.
   (B)   (1)   To be effective and complete, the request must be received by
the City Clerk within 20 days of the date of service of the administrative
citation, and be accompanied by evidence of payment of the full amount of the
fine. Where a request and fine deposit are mailed by the responsible person,
the request and fine deposit shall be deemed filed on the date received by the
City Clerk. All requests shall be date stamped upon receipt.
      (2)   Payment of a hearing fee, which may be established by City Council
resolution, must be deposited with the request for a hearing filed pursuant to
this section, along with the full amount of the administrative citation fine
being contested. Any hearing fee shall not exceed the reasonable cost to the
city of a hearing. In addition, the appellant shall be responsible for paying
one-half of the hearing officer’s full fees and costs, which must also be
deposited with the request for a hearing. The hearing officer’s costs shall be
based on city staff’s estimate of the costs of the hearing and complexity of
the hearing at the time of the filing of the request for hearing. In the event
that one-half of the hearing officer’s actual costs are less than the deposit
paid, the city shall refund any excess costs to the appellant. Deposits and
fees required under this section are subject to §
1-3-21, hardship waivers.
   (C)   The person requesting the administrative hearing shall attend the
hearing on the date, time and place specified in the notice. The responsible
person’s failure to personally attend the hearing will be considered a non-
appearance. Non-appearance by the responsible person shall constitute an
abandonment of the request, unless the hearing was continued pursuant to §
1-3-22, and a failure to exhaust administrative remedies concerning the
violation set forth in the citation.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-20) (Ord. 2006-142, § 1, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 1-3-21 WAIVER OF FINE DEPOSIT.
   (A)   A person who files a timely request for an administrative hearing may
also request at the same time a hardship waiver of the fine deposit, hearing
fee or hearing officer costs. To seek such a waiver, the responsible person
must check the box indicating this request on the form for requesting an
administrative hearing and attach a statement of the grounds for the request.
For the request to be effective, the completed form requesting the
administrative hearing and the waiver must be received by the Issuing Director
within ten days of the date the citation is issued.
   (B)   The person requesting the waiver bears the burden of establishing by
substantial evidence that they do not have the financial ability to make the
deposit of the fine, hearing fee or hearing officer costs.
   (C)   The waiver request will be decided by the City Manager, or their
designee, based on the information and evidence provided by the responsible
person demonstrating to the City Manager’s, or designee’s, reasonable
satisfaction that such person is financially unable to deposit the total amount
in advance of the hearing. The City Manager, or their designee, shall send the
responsible person a notice of decision listing their reason(s) for granting or
not granting an advance deposit hardship waiver in writing and serve it on the
responsible person.
   (D)   If the waiver is denied, the responsible person shall pay the required
amount within seven days of the date of that decision. Failure to make the
deposit by the time required shall be deemed an abandonment of the contest.
Upon receipt of the fine amount, the administrative hearing to contest the
citation shall be set pursuant to §
1-3-22.
   (E)   The requirement of depositing the full amount of the fine, hearing fee
and hearing officer costs shall be stayed unless or until the City Manager, or
designee, makes a determination not to issue the advance deposit hardship
waiver. The filing of a request for hardship waiver of the fine deposit does
not extend any other time periods set forth in this subchapter, except the time
when the deposit must be made.
   (F)   The City Manager’s, or their designee’s, decision on the waiver
request is final and may not be contested through a request for hearing.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-21) (Ord. 2006-142, § 1, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 1-3-22 HEARING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall forward the request for a hearing contesting an
administrative citation to the designated hearing officer designated pursuant
to this subchapter. The hearing officer so assigned shall schedule a date for
the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 60 calendar days and no
sooner than 15 calendar days from time of referral by the City Clerk to the
hearing officer; provided, however, that the hearing officer may schedule the
hearing more than 60 calendar days out if they reasonably determine that
additional time is necessary or upon the mutual agreement of the parties. At
least ten days prior to the date of the hearing, the hearing officer shall
notify the responsible person and city official of the time, date and place for
the hearing. To the extent that specific state or city ordinances set forth
additional notice provisions, the hearing officer shall also comply with such
provisions.
   (B)   The City Manager or their designee shall ensure that the pertinent
citation records are delivered to the hearing officer for a citation set for a
hearing, including information showing all fine deposits and waivers granted.
The City Manager or their designee shall also make available to the responsible
person before the hearing a copy of any additional reports concerning the
citation that are provided to the hearing officer.
   (C)   The responsible person shall be given the opportunity to testify and
to present evidence relevant to the code violation specified in the citation.
   (D)   A parent or legal guardian of a responsible person who is a minor,
under 18 years of age, shall accompany the responsible person during the
hearing.
   (E)   The citation shall be accepted by the hearing officer as prima facie
evidence of the code violation and the facts stated in such documents.
   (F)   Neither the enforcement officer nor any other representative of the
city shall be required to attend the hearing, nor shall the hearing officer
require that there be submitted any evidence, other than the citation, that may
exist among the public records of the city for the violation. However, such
appearance and/or submission may be made at the discretion of the enforcement
officer or any city employee or agent.
   (G)   The hearing officer may continue the hearing as they determine is
reasonably necessary.
   (H)   The hearing shall be conducted informally and the legal rules of
evidence need not be followed.
   (I)   Any failure to appear by the responsible person shall be noted on the
notice of decision by the hearing officer which shall be mailed to the
responsible person by the hearing officer. The fine deposit shall be credited
by the city against the fine due for the violation. Any fine deposit waiver
granted shall be canceled and the fine shall be due on the date the notice of
decision is served on the responsible person.
   (J)   At such hearing, the responsible person and the city representative
may present evidence relevant to the decision of the enforcement officer, as
determined by the hearing officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-22) (Ord. 2006-142, § 1, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 1-3-23 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING DECISION.
   (A)   After considering all the evidence and testimony submitted at the
administrative hearing, the hearing officer shall issue a written decision to
uphold, modify or reverse, in any manner they deem justified pursuant to the
evidence presented, the decision of the enforcement officer which is the
subject of the hearing. The decision shall not, however, conflict with any
substantive provisions of the applicable subchapter(s) of this code. The
hearing officer shall, within ten calendar days of the conclusion of the
hearing, file with the City Clerk their written decision, along with written
findings of fact and conclusions of law, and shall provide a copy of the
decision to all parties; provided, however, that the hearing officer may take
more than ten calendar days if they reasonably determine that additional time
is necessary or upon the mutual agreement of the parties. If any party is
represented by an attorney, the attorney shall be served. The hearing officer
has no discretion or authority to reduce or modify the amount of any fine. The
hearing officer shall also submit the original copies of the record to the City
Clerk.
   (B)   If the decision is to uphold the administrative citation, the city
shall keep the responsible party’s share of the hearing officer’s costs and the
deposited administrative fine amount. If the decision is to reverse the
citation in favor the responsible party, the city shall refund the responsible
party’s share of the hearing officer’s costs and the deposited administrative
fine amount to the responsible person within 30 days of the hearing officer’s
decision. If the citation is upheld and the deposit has been waived, the total
amount due shall be due on the date the decision is served on the responsible
person. As used in this section, a REVERSAL of an administrative citation means
the hearing officer has determined the administrative citation is void as
against the responsible party, and the appellant is not subject to any
administrative citation fine.
   (C)   The hearing officer’s continued employment, performance evaluation,
compensation and benefits shall not, directly or indirectly, be linked to the
amount of citations upheld or canceled by the hearing officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-23) (Ord. 2006-142, § 1, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 1-3-24 RIGHT TO JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   The responsible person may seek judicial review of the administrative
hearing decision by filing an appeal in accordance with the provisions of
California Government Code, § 53069.4(b) or other applicable law with the
Superior Court within 20 calendar days after the responsible person receives a
copy of the notice of decision. The appeal filed with the court must also
contain a proof of service showing that a copy of the appeal was served upon
“City of Laguna Niguel (Attention: City Attorney).”
   (B)   The City Attorney shall forward to the court within 15 days of its
request the pertinent citation documents for any case appealed to that court.
   (C)   If the court reverses an administrative citation in favor of the
appellant, the city will refund any fine deposit made and, if the city
requested attorney’s fees and costs at initiation, the appeal filing fee.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-24) (Ord. 2006-142, § 1, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 1-3-25 COLLECTION OF UNPAID FINES.
   (A)   The city, at its discretion, may pursue any and all legal and
equitable remedies for the collection of unpaid fines, late penalties, interest
and processing fees. Pursuit of one remedy does not preclude the pursuit of any
other remedies until the total fines, penalties, interest and fees owned by a
person under this subchapter have been collected. Nothing in this subchapter
shall be deemed to prevent the city from commencing a civil or criminal
proceeding to enforce the provisions of this code and any other ordinance of
the city, or from pursuing any other legal means or remedies available to it in
addition to or in lieu of the procedures set forth herein.
   (B)   The city may refuse to issue, extend or renew to any person, who has
unpaid delinquent fines, penalties, interest, fees, liens or assessments, any
city permit, license or other city approval pertaining to the property that is
the subject of the citation and fine.
   (C)   Any permit, license or land use approval issued by the city to a
person who has unpaid fines, penalties, interest and fees related to the
permit, license or land use approval totaling $1,000.00 or more that remain
delinquent for 30 days or longer shall automatically be suspended. The
suspension becomes effective ten days after notice of the suspension is sent
via certified U.S. mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the person and shall
continue until the delinquency is paid in full. Continuing to operate under a
suspended permit, license or approval shall be grounds for the permit, license
or land use approval to be revoked. Revocations may be made by the City Council
at a public hearing for which the person is given prior written notice.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person issued an administrative citation to
fail to pay any civil fine, penalty, interest or fee imposed pursuant to this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-25) (Ord. 2006-142, § 1, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 1-3-26 ADMINISTRATIVE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Consistent with the intent and goals of this subchapter, the City Manager
may adopt administrative rules and regulations for implementation and
furtherance of the requirements of this subchapter. Such rules and regulations
may be enforced as an ordinance in any manner permitted by this municipal code
and applicable laws.
§ 1-3-27 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this subchapter is found to be unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, that invalidity will
not affect the remaining provisions of this subchapter, which can be
implemented without the invalid provisions, and to this end, the provisions of
this subchapter are declared to be severable.
TITLE 2: ADMINISTRATION AND PERSONNEL
Chapter
   1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   2.   COUNCIL
   3.   COMMISSIONS, BOARDS AND COMMITTEES
   4.   CITY MANAGER
   5.   CITY CLERK
   6.   CITY TREASURER
   6.1.   DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
   7.   CITY ATTORNEY
   8.   POLITICAL REFORM
   9.   BY-DISTRICT ELECTIONS
***** CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS *****
Section
2-1-1   Date of general municipal elections
§ 2-1-1 DATE OF GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   General municipal elections for the city shall be held on the same day as
the statewide general elections, which is in November of even-numbered years.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1) (Ord. 91-32, § 3, passed 4-16-1991)
***** CHAPTER 2: COUNCIL *****
Section
2-2-1   Time of regular meetings
2-2-2   Place of regular meetings
2-2-3   Improper conduct at meetings
2-2-4   Adoption of rules of procedure
2-2-5   Reimbursement of members for expenses
2-2-6   Salary of members
2-2-7   Commission appointments
2-2-8   Appeals to Council - right of appeal
2-2-9   Same - notice of appeal
2-2-10   Same - hearing date; notice of hearing
2-2-11   Same - conduct of hearing
§ 2-2-1 TIME OF REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The time of regular meetings of the City Council shall be established by
resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (2.04.010), passed 12-1-1989; Res. 89-3,
passed 12-1-1989; Ord. 2007-146, § 2, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 2-2-2 PLACE OF REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of the City Council shall be held at a location to be
designated by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (2.04.020), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 2-2-3 IMPROPER CONDUCT AT MEETINGS.
   Any person who disrupts a meeting by engaging in disorderly conduct, using
loud or boisterous language, refusing to be seated or keep quiet when ordered
to do so by the Mayor or other presiding officer or otherwise impeding the
orderly conduct of the meeting is guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to
removal from the meeting.
§ 2-2-4 ADOPTION OF RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The City Council may, by resolution, adopt rules of procedure and
regulations pertaining thereto to govern the conduct of its meetings and any of
its other functions and activities.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (2.04.040), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 2-2-5 REIMBURSEMENT OF MEMBERS FOR EXPENSES.
   When approved by the City Council, each member of the Council shall receive
reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of
official duties for the city, pursuant to the provisions of California
Government Code, § 36514.5.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (2.04.050), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 2-2-6 SALARY OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The salary for members of the City Council is hereby established at
$400.00 per month commencing on December 1, 1989.
   (B)   Any amount paid by the city for retirement, health and welfare and
federal Social Security benefits shall not be included for the purpose of
determining the salary established in division (A) above; provided that the
same benefits are available and paid by the city for its employees.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-6) (Ord. 89-2, § 3, passed 12-1-1989)
§ 2-2-7 COMMISSION APPOINTMENTS.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided in this code or by state law, all
city board and commission appointments, except for ex officio members where
applicable, shall be made by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-7) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (2.04.060), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 2-2-8 APPEALS TO COUNCIL - RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Except when an appeals procedure is otherwise specifically set forth
in this code, any person excepting to the denial, conditional approval,
suspension or revocation of a permit, license or other approval applied for or
held by them, pursuant to any provision of this code, or to any administrative
decision made by any official of the city, if the denial, conditional approval,
suspension or revocation of such permit, license or approval or the
determination of such administrative decision involves the exercise of
administrative discretion or personal judgment exercised pursuant to any
provision of this code, may appeal in writing to the Council by filing with the
City Clerk a written notice of such appeal.
   (B)   No appeal may be taken to any such administrative decision made by an
official of the city, pursuant to any provision of this code, unless such
decision has been first taken up with the department head concerned and with
the City Manager, and each such official has not adjusted the matter to the
appellant’s satisfaction.
   (C)   No right of appeal to the Council from any administrative decision
made by an official of the city pursuant to any provision of this code shall
exist when such decision is ministerial and thus does not involve the exercise
of administrative discretion or personal judgment, whether the administrative
decision involves the denial, conditional approval, suspension or revocation of
a permit, license approval or any other administrative decision. There shall be
no such right of appeal with regard to law enforcement activities involving
state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-8) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (2.04.100), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 2-2-9 SAME - NOTICE OF APPEAL.
   (A)   No notice of appeal to the Council shall be acted upon unless filed
within ten days after service of written notice of the determination appealed
from; provided that, if such notice of determination has not been served in
writing, the appellant may, within ten days after being apprised of such
determination, demand service of written notice thereof, and shall have ten
days following such service in which to file the notice of appeal.
   (B)   (1)   The notice of appeal shall set forth:
         (a)   The specific action appealed from;
         (b)   The specific grounds of the appeal; and
         (c)   The relief or action sought from the City Council.
      (2)   If any notice of appeal fails to set forth any information required
by this section, the City Clerk shall return the notice to the appellant with a
statement of deficiency and the appellant shall thereafter be allowed five days
in which to correct and re-file the notice of appeal.
   (C)   Except in those instances where an appeal is filed by the City Manager
or other public official pursuant to official duties, the written notice of
appeal from the determination of an administrative official or from an
administrative body of the city, as the case may be, shall be accompanied by
such fee as may have been established by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-9) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (2.04.110), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 2-2-10 SAME - HEARING DATE; NOTICE OF HEARING.
   Upon the timely filing of a notice of appeal to the Council in proper form,
the City Clerk shall schedule the matter promptly for the next regular meeting
of the City Council and shall cause notice thereof to be given to the appellant
not less than five days prior to such hearing, unless such notice is waived in
writing by the appellant. The City Clerk shall also cause a copy of the notice
of appeal to be transmitted to the official or body whose decision has been
appealed.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10) (Ord. 89-4, § 1 (2.04.120), passed 12-1-1989)
§ 2-2-11 SAME - CONDUCT OF HEARING.
   (A)   The City Council’s consideration of an appealed decision is de novo
and the Council may take any action that might legally have been taken in the
first instance. In addition to testimony and evidence presented at the appeal
hearing, the City Council may consider information in the record of the hearing
from which the appeal is taken. The City Council may continue its hearing on
the matter from time to time to a certain date and may refer the matter to the
previous decision-making authority for additional input before the Council
makes its final determination.
   (B)   As a hearing de novo, an appeal under this chapter completely takes
the place of and nullifies the former determination of the matter. To take any
action or issue any approval, the City Council must act by majority vote. A tie
vote by the City Council results in a denial, even if the former determination
initially resulted in an approval. In ruling on the appeal, the finding and
action of the Council shall be final and conclusive in the matter.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this section shall
supersede, modify or affect any applicable zoning or land use appeal procedures
set forth in Title 9.
***** CHAPTER 3: COMMISSIONS, BOARDS AND COMMITTEES *****
Section
Subchapter 1. General Provisions
2-3-1   Establishment and applicability
2-3-2   Committees exempt from this chapter
2-3-3   Qualification of members, membership on multiple bodies and preclusion
on appointment of relatives of Council members
2-3-4   Procedures for appointment of members and for filling vacancies
2-3-5   Officers; staff
2-3-6   Term of office
2-3-7   Term limits
2-3-8   Meetings; quorum
2-3-9   Absence from meetings; when vacancy is created
2-3-10   Compensation of members
2-3-11   Removal of members
2-3-12   Brown Act applies to commissions, boards and committees
Subchapter 2. Investment, Banking and Audit Committee
2-3-13   Establishment, membership and appointment
2-3-14   Qualifications for membership
2-3-15   Term of membership
2-3-16   Duties of the committee
2-3-17   Time and place of meetings
2-3-18   Officers
2-3-19   Staff assistance
2-3-20   Compensation
Subchapter 3. Military Support Committee
2-3-21   Establishment, membership and appointment
2-3-22   Ex officio members
2-3-23   Duties of the Committee
2-3-24   Ad hoc committees
2-3-25   Time and place of meetings; quorum
2-3-26   Accounting and approval of expenditures
2-3-27   Staff assistance
Subchapter 4. Parks, Recreation and Senior Commission
2-3-28   Establishment, membership and appointment
2-3-29   Term of membership
2-3-30   Duties and responsibilities of the Commission
2-3-31   Time and place of meetings
2-3-32   Officers
2-3-33   Staff assistance
2-3-34   Compensation
Subchapter 5. Reserved
2-3-35—2-3-40   Reserved
Subchapter 6. Reserved
2-3-41—2-3-45   Reserved
Subchapter 7. Traffic and Transportation Commission
2-3-46   Membership and appointment
2-3-47   Term of membership
2-3-48   Duties and responsibilities of the Commission
2-3-49   Time and place of meetings
2-3-50   Officers
2-3-51   Staff assistance
2-3-52   Compensation
Subchapter 8. Youth Committee
2-3-53   Establishment, membership and appointment
2-3-54   Term of membership
2-3-55   Duties of the Committee
2-3-56   Time, place and quorum for meetings
2-3-57   Officers
2-3-58   Staff assistance
Cross-reference:
Grading Board of Appeals, see §
8-1-813
Grading Technical Advisory Board, see § 8-1-814
Noise Variance Board, see §
6-6-13
Traffic Committee, see §
7-4-203 et seq.
Editor’s note:
Ord. 2019-198, § 3, adopted Oct. 1, 2019, amended Chapter 3 in its entirety to
read as herein set out. Former Chapter 3, §§ 2-3-1—2-3-11, pertained to similar
subject matter, and derived from Ord. 90-10, § 1 (2.06.010—2.06.100), passed 2-
6-1990; Ord. 91-34, § 1, passed 5-21-1991; Ord. 91-51, §§ 1 and 2, passed 11-
19-1991; Ord. 93-63, § 2 (2.06.110), passed 4-20-1993; Ord. 95-80, § 1, passed
1-3-1995; Ord. 99-108, § 1, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2010-157, § 2, passed 6-1-
2010; Ord. 2014-177, § 1, passed 10-21-2014
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 2-3-1 ESTABLISHMENT AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The City Council may establish by ordinance or resolution such
commissions, boards and committees as it deems necessary and determine the
duties and responsibilities of such commissions, boards and committees. All of
the provisions of this subchapter are applicable to the commissions, boards and
committees established by the City Council, except that the City Council may
establish provisions applicable to a particular commission, board or committee
that are different from those contained in this subchapter.
   (B)   In the event of a conflict between the general provisions contained in
this subchapter and the specific provisions contained in the another subchapter
of this chapter, a separate section of this code or specific resolution
applicable to a particular commission, board of committee, the provisions of
that other subchapter, section or resolution shall control.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-2 COMMITTEES EXEMPT FROM THIS CHAPTER.
   This chapter does not pertain to ad hoc or standing committees of the City
Council established by the Mayor or City Council that consist exclusively of
City Council members.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-3 QUALIFICATION OF MEMBERS, MEMBERSHIP ON MULTIPLE BODIES AND PRECLUSION
ON APPOINTMENT OF RELATIVES OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   All members of commissions, boards and committees of the city shall,
at all times during their incumbencies, be bona fide residents and registered
voters of the city, unless provided in a specific subchapter of this chapter.
   (B)   Generally, it is the policy of the City Council that no person, except
members of the City Council if specifically authorized in a specific subchapter
in this title, shall be a member of more than one commission, board or
committee at any one time. However, it is recognized that the City Council may,
in extraordinary circumstances, appoint a person to two commissions, boards or
committees at the same time. The prohibition set out in this section does not
prevent a member of a commission, board or committee from simultaneously
serving on one or more ad hoc or temporary committees.
   (C)   Relatives of a currently serving City Council member shall not be
eligible for appointment to any city commission, board or committee. For
purposes of this section, the term RELATIVES means spouse, parent, sibling
(including foster or step), children (including adoptive, foster or step), in-
laws, grandparent or grandchild, aunt or uncle, niece or nephew. In addition,
the term RELATIVES also means all other legally related persons (e.g., grand-
nephew, grand-niece, cousin or other relative) not listed in the preceding
sentence; provided that a person in this latter group of relatives must live in
the same household as the currently serving City Council member.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 2022-213, §
2, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 2-3-4 PROCEDURES FOR APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS AND FOR FILLING VACANCIES.
   (A)   Scheduled vacancies. Members of commissions, boards and committees
shall be appointed by the following procedure. The City Clerk shall provide
public notice, in the manner they deem appropriate, that the City Council will
be appointing members by considering applicants for membership and of the
deadlines and timing for submittal of applications and selection of members.
The City Council shall, after public notice, receive and consider applications
for membership; determine which applicants, if any, to interview; hold
interviews with the selected applicants; and appoint members by a majority vote
of membership of the City Council. The City Clerk shall retain all applications
submitted to the city for a period of two years. In addition to these
procedures, the City Clerk shall, on or before December 31 of each year,
prepare and submit to the City Council for approval a list of all regular and
ongoing commissions, boards and committees of the city, which list shall be
known as the city’s local appointments list, as required by California
Government Code, § 54972, as such section may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Unscheduled vacancies. When a vacancy occurs in the membership of a
commission, board or committee before the end of the incumbents term or office,
that vacancy shall be considered unscheduled and shall be filled in compliance
with the state law provisions governing the filling of those unscheduled
vacancies, as provided in California Government Code, §§ 54970 through 54974,
as those sections may be amended from time to time. In addition to following
those procedures, such vacancies shall be filled by appointment for the
unexpired portion of the term made in the manner as set forth in division (A)
above, or the City Council may, by majority vote of its membership and in lieu
of utilizing the procedures set forth in division (A) above, appoint a person
to fill a vacancy on a commission, board or committee whose name is on a list
of applicants for membership on that commission, board or committee that had
previously been developed pursuant to division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-5 OFFICERS; STAFF.
   Each commission, board or committee shall annually select a chairperson and
a vice chair. The City Manager shall provide the necessary staff for clerical
and technical assistance to all commissions, boards and committees.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-5) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-6 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Each commission, board or committee member shall be appointed to either a
one-year term or a two-year term. Terms of office shall run from January 1
through December 31 of the same year for a one-year term or from January 1
through December 31 of the succeeding year for a two-year term. If a member was
appointed to a one-year term, then the City Council may, prior to the end of
that first one-year term, and without following the formal appointment process
for scheduled vacancies set forth in §
2-3-4(A), reappoint that member to a second one-year term. At the completion of
any two-year term or the completion of the second of two one-year terms, a
commission, board or committee member may be reappointed pursuant to the
procedures set forth in §
2-3-4(A), or the City Council may, without utilizing the procedures set forth
in §
2-3-4(A), reappoint a member to a commission, board or committee by a majority
of the membership of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-6) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-7 TERM LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall be appointed to hold office as a member of any one
city commission or committee for more than three consecutive two-year terms,
for more than six consecutive one-year terms or for more than six consecutive
years of a combination of two- and one-year terms.
   (B)   After a person has served three consecutive two-year terms or six
consecutive years on one commission or committee, that person may again be
appointed to serve on that commission or committee after they have been off
that commission or committee for at least two years.
   (C)   If a person serves for at least one year of a two-year term, that
person, for purposes of this section, shall be considered to have served a full
two-year term.
   (D)   The term limits established by this section shall apply retroactively
and, therefore, terms that were completed prior to the effective date of this
section and terms that are in existence at the time of the effective date of
this section shall count for purposes of applying the term limits established
by this section.
   (E)   This section does not apply to the Investment, Banking and Audit
Committee; the Military Support Committee; or the Youth Committee.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-7) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-8 MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   Each commission, board or committee shall establish its own meeting
schedule, including date, time and place of meetings. A quorum of the majority
of all the members appointed shall be required for the transaction of any
business. All meetings of each commission, board or committee shall be held in
compliance with the Ralph M. Brown Act (California Government Code, §§ 54950 et
seq.).
(Prior Code, § 2-3-8) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-9 ABSENCE FROM MEETINGS; WHEN VACANCY IS CREATED.
   Should any commission, board or committee member be absent from three
consecutive meetings of the commission, board or committee during their term,
that member shall automatically vacate their position on the commission, board
or committee. Such vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as any other
unscheduled vacancy, unless the position remains vacant for the remaining term
of the incumbent, in which case, it will thereafter be filled in the manner
required for a scheduled vacancy.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-9) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-10 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   The compensation, if any, for members of all other commissions, boards and
committees shall be set forth in the subchapter providing for the establishment
and operation of each commission, board or committee. Unless provided otherwise
in the establishing resolution, no commission, board or committee member shall
be compensated for attendance at more than two meetings in one month.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-10) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-11 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   Members of commissions, boards and committees serve at the pleasure of the
City Council and any member of a commission, board or committee may be removed
from membership on the commission, board or committee before the expiration of
their term with or without cause or reason by a four-fifths vote of all of the
members of the City Council. If a member is to be removed with cause, the City
Council member initiating such removal shall provide the commission, board or
committee member with a brief statement of the reasons for proposed removal,
and the City Council shall provide the member reasonable notice and an
opportunity to respond to those reasons at or before the City Council meeting
at which the removal action is proposed to be taken.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-11) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-12 BROWN ACT APPLIES TO COMMISSIONS, BOARDS AND COMMITTEES.
   The Ralph M. Brown Act (California Government Code, §§ 54950 et seq.)
applies to the operation of all commissions, boards and committees that are
covered by this chapter. Any meeting of a commission, board or committee shall
comply with the notice, agenda, public access, public communication and all
other provisions of that law unless otherwise stated by that law.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-12) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. INVESTMENT, BANKING AND AUDIT COMMITTEE ****
§ 2-3-13 ESTABLISHMENT, MEMBERSHIP AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The investment, banking and audit committee is hereby established.
   (B)   The investment, banking and audit committee shall consist of seven
members, five of whom shall be residents appointed by the City Council, and two
of whom shall be members of the City Council.
   (C)   The five resident members shall each be appointed by the City Council
in accordance with the procedures established for appointing members of the
city’s commissions, boards and committees.
   (D)   The two City Council members of the committee shall be elected by a
majority vote of the full City Council.
   (E)   The City Council may appoint up to two alternate members to the
Committee. Alternate members shall be residents of the city and shall be
appointed by the City Council in accordance with the procedures established for
appointing members of the city’s commissions, boards and committees. Alternates
may fully participate in committee discussions, but shall not have the right to
vote, unless designated by the Chairperson to replace an absent member of the
Committee. Alternates are required to attend Committee meetings and will be
deemed to have vacated their position if absent from three consecutive
Committee meetings.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-13) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-14 QUALIFICATIONS FOR MEMBERSHIP.
   The resident and alternate members of the Committee shall have substantial
education and experience in one or more of the following areas:
   (A)   Investment banking;
   (B)   Investment brokerage and sales;
   (C)   Investment management;
   (D)   Financial management and planning;
   (E)   Commercial banking;
   (F)   Governmental entity or private sector financial auditing;
   (G)   Governmental entity or private sector accounting; and
   (H)   Other relevant experience.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-14) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-15 TERM OF MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The term of office for the resident members of the Committee shall be
for a period of two years, unless the City Council, at the time of the
appointment, expressly makes the appointment to a term of one year. The two-
year term shall run from January 1 of a particular year to December 31 of the
following year. The one-year term shall run from January 1 of a particular year
to December 31 of that same year. The City Council shall appoint the resident
members of the Committee for a particular term during the November and December
of the preceding year. In the event that there is a delay in the appointment of
the resident members of the Committee for a particular term, then the resident
members appointed for the preceding term shall remain in office until the City
Council appoints their successors.
   (B)   The terms of office for the resident members of the Committee shall be
staggered, to the extent feasible, such that the terms of no more than three
resident members terminate at the same time.
   (C)   The term of office for alternate members of the Committee shall be one
year.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-15) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-16 DUTIES OF THE COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The duties and responsibilities of the Investment, Banking and Audit
Committee shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Annually review the city’s investment policy and recommend
revisions, as necessary, to the City Council;
      (2)   Periodically review the city’s investment portfolio and the city’s
investment practices to ensure conformance with the city’s investment policy;
      (3)   Periodically review the city’s investment portfolio to ensure that
the city’s investments are diversified;
      (4)   Monitor city staff’s practices regarding the handling of the
investment portfolio and the making of investments to ensure that the internal
control and safeguards established by the city’s investment policy are being
followed;
      (5)   Advise city staff regarding potential investments and potential
investment strategies;
      (6)   Develop and recommend policies to guide the city’s banking
relationships;
      (7)   Monitor the city’s banking relationships and advise city staff of
potential issues and concerns;
      (8)   Review the draft request for proposals (RFP) and proposed selection
criteria for auditing services with staff before presentation to the full City
Council and distribution of the RFP to qualified auditing firms;
      (9)   Review the draft annual financial report with staff and auditors
before presentation to the full City Council;
      (10)   Review the management letter and internal control comments and
recommendations with staff and auditors before presentation to the full City
Council;
      (11)   Following the end of year audit and CAFR preparation, Chairperson
shall make presentation to the City Council regarding investment, banking and
audit related matters;
      (12)   Review current contracts and/or city vendors for compliance with
the Laguna Niguel Municipal Code (LNMC) and the city’s administrative policies
and procedures, including spending limits, related to procurement and
contracting;
      (13)   Provide input into the city’s current purchasing and contracting
procedures with respect to the LNMC and the city’s administrative policies and
procedures, including spending limits, related to procurement and contracting;
      (14)   Inspect any discrepancies found in the current annual audit with
respect to spending in accordance with all contracts and agreements and found
to be outside the parameters of the city’s administrative policies related to
procurement and contracting; and
      (15)   Perform such other related duties that may be requested from time
to time by the full City Council.
   (B)   The City Manager and the Finance Director are responsible for the day
to day management of the investment portfolio and the making of specific
investments. The Committee shall not make or direct city staff to make any
particular investment, purchase any particular investment products or do
business with any particular investment companies, brokers or banks.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-16) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-17 TIME AND PLACE OF MEETINGS.
   The Investment, Banking and Audit Committee shall determine when and how
frequently to meet. All meetings of the committee shall be held at the City
Hall.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-17) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-18 OFFICERS.
   The Committee shall, annually at its first meeting of each calendar year,
select one of its members to serve as Chairperson of the Committee and a second
member to serve as Vice Chair of the Committee.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-18) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-19 STAFF ASSISTANCE.
   The City Manager and the Finance Director shall provide the necessary staff
for the Investment, Banking and Audit Committee.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-19) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-20 COMPENSATION.
   The Investment, Banking and Audit Committee members shall be compensated at
the rate of $50.00 per meeting of the Committee that they attend. This does not
apply to members of the Committee that are members of the City Council.
Alternate members shall be compensated at the rate of $25.00 per meeting of the
Committee that they attend.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-20) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. MILITARY SUPPORT COMMITTEE ****
§ 2-3-21 ESTABLISHMENT, MEMBERSHIP AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The military support committee is hereby established.
   (B)   The Military Support Committee shall consist of not less than ten nor
more than 20 members. Two members of the City Council shall serve on the
Committee in a non-voting and advisory role as liaisons between the City
Council and the Committee and shall be appointed by majority vote of the City
Council.
   (C)   The remaining members of the Committee shall be at-large members
appointed by the City Council as deemed appropriate, and may include
representatives from local service clubs, charities, civic organizations,
veteran’s organizations, as well as interested city residents, local veterans,
business owners and individuals residing outside of the city.
   (D)   The City Council may appoint up to five at-large members nominated by
specific charitable, service or civic organizations which by virtue of their
significant and ongoing presence within the city are expected to make a
substantial contribution to the mission of the City Military Support Committee.
Such at-large members shall be considered the liaisons to the specified
organizations and shall serve at the discretion of the organization. The City
Council may grant or revoke the right for an organization to appoint an at-
large member at any time.
   (E)   The Committee shall hold an annual organizational meeting and each at-
large member who is appointed for a term of one year shall serve from their
date of appointment until the Committee’s next annual organizational meeting
and each at-large member who is appointed to serve a term of two years shall
serve from the date of their appointment until the annual organizational
meeting held in two years.
   (F)   Within 90 days of the effective date of the ordinance that added this
division (F), or as soon thereafter as the Committee deems appropriate, the
members of the Committee shall select a chair and a Vice Chair of the Committee
from the appointed and voting members of the Committee. The selected Chair and
Vice Chair shall serve until the committee’s next annual organizational meeting
at which time the Committee may select the same or different members to serve
as Chair and Vice Chair. At each annual organizational meeting thereafter, the
members of the Committee shall make its annual selection of a Chair and a Vice
Chair of the Committee from the appointed and voting members of the Committee.
The Committee may select a Chair and Vice Chair to serve successive one-year
terms in those positions. City Council members appointed as liaisons to the
Committee shall not be eligible to be selected as a Chair or Vice Chair of the
Committee.
   (G)   The City Council, when making the annual appointments of the at-large
members of the Committee, shall, as to each member appointed, designate whether
that member shall serve for a term of one year or a term of two years. Each
year, the City Council shall appoint enough at-large members to ensure that
with the members who had been appointed the previous year for a two-year term
there are at least ten members of the Committee and no more than 20 members of
the Committee.
   (H)   The City Council has the sole authority to remove any member of the
Committee before the expiration of their term and may do so with or without
cause or with or without a reason.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-21) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 2020-203, §
2, passed 2-18-2020; Ord. 2022-212, § 2, passed 4-19-2022; Ord. 2023-221, § 2,
passed 4-18-2023)
§ 2-3-22 EX OFFICIO MEMBERS.
   The following ex officio members shall serve on the Committee in a non-
voting advisory role:
   (A)   A liaison appointed by the commanding officer of each of the City
Council’s selected adoptive military units;
   (B)   A representative appointed from spouse/family support groups of each
of the City Council’s selected adoptive military units; and
   (C)   One or more representatives from the City Military Support Foundation.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-22) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 2022-212, §
3, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 2-3-23 DUTIES OF THE COMMITTEE.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Military Support Committee shall
consist of the following:
   (A)   Maintain continuous communication and contact between the city and
representatives of the City Council’s selected adoptive military units;
   (B)   Determine the support needs of the personnel and families of the City
Council’s selected adoptive military units;
   (C)   Plan, organize and conduct programs and special events to support the
personnel and families of the City Council’s selected adoptive military units;
   (D)   Represent the city at ceremonial and social events, upon the
invitation of the commanding officer (or their representative) of the City
Council’s selected adoptive military units;
   (E)   Solicit and raise private funds and donations to support the City
Military Support Foundation’s mission to support the city’s adoptive
relationship, programs and special events with the City Council’s selected
adoptive military units;
   (F)   Provide periodic updates to the City Council on its activities; and
   (G)   Such other duties and responsibilities as may be assigned by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-23) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 2022-212, §
4, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 2-3-24 AD HOC COMMITTEES.
   The Committee may establish such ad hoc committees, including ex officio
members, as it deems necessary to carry out the duties and responsibilities of
the Committee.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-24) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-25 TIME AND PLACE OF MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   The Military Support Committee shall determine when and how frequently to
meet. The Committee shall meet at least once annually for the purposes of
appointing and organizing its members and establishing such ad hoc committees
that it deems necessary or appropriate. All meetings of the Committee shall be
held at the City Hall. A meeting may be called and scheduled by the Chair or by
a majority of the members of the Committee. A quorum shall consist of seven
voting Committee members being present at the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-25) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 2023-221, §
3, passed 4-18-2023)
§ 2-3-26 ACCOUNTING AND APPROVAL OF EXPENDITURES.
   It is anticipated that the city will continue to budget on an annual basis
funds to support activities of the Military Support Committee with the primary
source of funding expected to come from the City Military Support Foundation
and various fundraising events. The Finance Director shall establish such funds
and accounts that they deem necessary to properly account for contributed city
funds and private contributions/donations. The Finance Director is authorized
to disburse funds only upon the written request of the Chair and written
approval of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-26) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 2023-221, §
4, passed 4-18-2023)
§ 2-3-27 STAFF ASSISTANCE.
   The City Manager, the Finance Director and the Executive Secretary shall
provide the necessary staff for the Military Support Committee.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-27) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. PARKS, RECREATION AND SENIOR COMMISSION ****
§ 2-3-28 ESTABLISHMENT, MEMBERSHIP AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The parks, recreation and senior commission is hereby established.
   (B)   The Parks, Recreation and Senior Commission shall consist of seven
residents of the city each appointed by the City Council, in accordance with
the procedures for appointing members to city commissions, committees and
boards in Title 2, Chapter 3, Subchapter 1. The Mayor may appoint a member of
the City Council to act as a liaison between the City Council and the
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-28) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 2025-234, §
2, passed 3-4-2025)
§ 2-3-29 TERM OF MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The term of office of members of the Parks, Recreation and Senior
Commission shall be for a period of two years, unless the City Council, at the
time of the appointment, expressly makes the appointment for a term of one
year. The two-year term shall run from January 1 of a particular year to
December 31 of the following year. The one-year term shall run from January 1
of a particular year to December 31 of that same year. The City Council shall
appoint the members of the Commission for a particular term in January, at the
beginning of the term. In the event that there is a delay in the appointment of
the members of the Commission for a particular term, then the members appointed
for the preceding term shall remain in office until the City Council appoints
its successors.
   (B)   The terms of office for the members of the Commission shall be
staggered, to the extent feasible, such that the terms of no more than four
members terminate at the same time.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-29) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 2025-234, §
2, passed 3-4-2025)
§ 2-3-30 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Parks, Recreation and Senior
Commission shall consist of the following:
   (A)   Review and recommend to the City Council plans for the development of
parks which are prepared for the implementation of city parks and recreation
programs;
   (B)   Review and recommend to the City Council plans for the development of
recreation facilities, programs and services in the city;
   (C)   Establish working relationships with the South Coast YMCA and
Capistrano Unified School District to maximize the coordination of programs and
use of facilities;
   (D)   Provide advice to the City Council on the needs of the senior citizens
of the community, both within the city and regionally;
   (E)   Promote the involvement of senior citizens in community affairs;
   (F)   Provide input regarding a variety of programs for the benefit of
senior citizens;
   (G)   Act as a sounding board for individuals and organizations and city
officials for ideas and plans which may affect senior citizens;
   (H)   Attend programs and activities at the Sea Country Senior and Community
Center and participate in a volunteer capacity as needed; and
   (I)   Undertake such other duties as may be assigned by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-30) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 2025-234, §
2, passed 3-4-2025)
§ 2-3-31 TIME AND PLACE OF MEETINGS.
   The Parks, Recreation and Senior Commission shall meet regularly, at least
once each month, at a time established by the Commission at its formation
meeting, and it shall hold such other meetings as it deems necessary. At least
two meetings per calendar year of the Commission must be held at the Sea
Country Senior and Community Center during regular operating hours, with the
remainder of the meetings being held in the City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-31) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 2025-234, §
2, passed 3-4-2025)
§ 2-3-32 OFFICERS.
   The Commission shall, annually in January of each year, select one of its
members to serve as the Chairperson of the Commission and one of its members to
serve as Vice Chair of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-32) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 2025-234, §
2, passed 3-4-2025)
§ 2-3-33 STAFF ASSISTANCE.
   The City Manager shall provide the necessary staff for the technical and
clerical assistance of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-33) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 2025-234, §
2, passed 3-4-2025)
§ 2-3-34 COMPENSATION.
   Parks, Recreation and Senior Commission members shall be compensated at the
rate of $25.00 for each meeting of the Commission that they attend not to
exceed two meetings in one month.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-34) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 2025-234, §
2, passed 3-4-2025)
**** SUBCHAPTER 5. RESERVED ****
§§ 2-3-35—2-3-40 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 6. RESERVED ****
§§ 2-3-41—2-3-45 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 7. TRAFFIC AND TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION ****
§ 2-3-46 MEMBERSHIP AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The traffic and transportation commission is hereby established.
   (B)   The Traffic and Transportation Commission shall consist of five
residents of the city each appointed by the City Council in accordance with the
procedures established for appointing members of city commissions, committees
and boards and committees established in Title 2, Chapter 3, Subchapter 1. The
Mayor may appoint a member of the City Council to act as a liaison between the
City Council and the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-46) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-47 TERM OF MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The term of office of members and alternate members of the Traffic and
Transportation Commission shall be for a period of two years, unless the City
Council, at the time of the appointment, expressly makes the appointment to a
term of one year. The two-year term shall run from January 1 of a particular
year to December 31 of the following year. The one-year term shall run from
January 1 of a particular year to December 31 of that same year. The City
Council shall appoint the members of the Commission for a particular term
during the November and December immediately preceding the term. In the event
that there is a delay in the appointment of the members of the Commission for a
particular term, then the members appointed for the preceding term shall remain
in office until the City Council appoints their successors.
   (B)   The terms of office for the members of the Commission shall be
staggered, to the extent feasible, such that the terms of no more than three
members terminate at the same time.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-47) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-48 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Traffic and Transportation Commission
shall consist of the following:
   (A)   Act in an advisory capacity to the City Council on all traffic matters
relating to:
      (1)   Receiving complaints relating to traffic matters;
      (2)   Surveying, reviewing and making recommendations relative to traffic
conditions, improvement of traffic conditions and the administration and
enforcement of traffic regulations;
      (3)   Surveying, reviewing and making recommending plans for improved
parking; and
      (4)   Surveying, reviewing and recommending safety programs, campaigns
and activities to educate the public in traffic safety.
   (B)   Initiate and maintain a program of traffic safety programs and
campaigns relative to the California Traffic Safety Program, provided for by
the California Vehicle Code, § 2900 through 2910.
   (C)   Act as a body to receive complaints and recommendations concerning
traffic matters. In this capacity, the Commission shall act as a liaison to
communicate information obtained from the general public and other local
agencies to the City Council;
   (D)   The Commission shall not duplicate Planning Commission duties relating
to the review of tentative tract maps and other development plans;
   (E)   Recommend to the Planning Commission and the City Council provisions
for the circulation element of the general plan of the city, and to otherwise
implement said element after its adoption;
   (F)   Study and make recommendations to the City Council on matters
regarding public transportation;
   (G)   Study and make recommendations to the City Council on matters of
traffic regulations, including traffic control devices, parking and vehicle and
pedestrian safety, except for those matters otherwise delegated by this code to
the Traffic Engineer. The Traffic and Transportation Commission shall also have
the authority and responsibility to study and make recommendations to the City
Council on the following specific matters:
      (1)   The designation of any intersection requiring a vehicle to come to
a full stop or the installation or removal of any existing stop sign within the
city;
      (2)   The installation of any traffic control sign within the city,
except for traffic warning signs as provided in §
7-4-202;
      (3)   The designation of overnight parking zones on certain streets or
highways, or portions thereof; and
      (4)   The designation of specific street segments for time limited
parking zones, including, but not limited to, time or day restrictions or one-
hour, two-hour or other time limitations.
   (H)   Review and monitor existing traffic circulation improvement programs;
   (I)   After evaluation by the traffic engineer, review, evaluate and make
recommendations to the City Council regarding requests for the installation of
stop signs and signals and the creation of one-way streets;
   (J)   Review and evaluate all traffic improvement and/or circulation
proposals submitted to the city by state and local government entities;
   (K)   Review and evaluate current and anticipated on-street parking
requirements and limitations; and
   (I)   Undertake such other duties as may be assigned by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-48) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 2020-204, §
4, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 2-3-49 TIME AND PLACE OF MEETINGS.
   The Traffic and Transportation Commission shall hold regular meetings on the
fourth Wednesday of each month at 7:00 p.m. All meetings of the Commission
shall be held at the City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-49) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-50 OFFICERS.
   The Commission shall, annually in January of each year, select one of its
members to serve as the Chairperson of the Commission and one of its members to
serve as Vice Chair of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-50) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-51 STAFF ASSISTANCE.
   The City Manager shall provide the necessary staff for the technical and
clerical assistance of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-51) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-52 COMPENSATION.
   Traffic and Transportation Commission members shall be compensated at the
rate of $25.00 for each meeting of the Commission that they attend not to
exceed two meetings in one month.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-52) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
**** SUBCHAPTER 8. YOUTH COMMITTEE ****
§ 2-3-53 ESTABLISHMENT, MEMBERSHIP AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The youth committee is hereby established.
   (B)   (1)   The Committee shall consist of up to 15 voting members who shall
be high school students residing in the city.
      (2)   Students attending both the public and private high schools that
serve the community are eligible for membership.
   (C)   (1)   City staff shall review the applications to ensure that the
minimum application requirements are satisfied.
      (2)   The two City Council liaisons to the Youth Committee shall
interview all applicants that meet the minimum qualifications and appoint up to
15 members for the Committee.
   (D)   The City Council may appoint less than 15 members to the Committee.
   (E)   It is the intent of the City Council that the Committee shall consist
of a broad range of members with varying and diverse interests and backgrounds.
   (F)   Applicants must have a grade point average of 2.25 or higher.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-53) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-54 TERM OF MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The term of office of members of the City Youth Committee shall be for
a period of two years or until graduation from high school, whichever occurs
first, unless the City Council, at the time of the appointment, expressly makes
the appointment to a term of one year.
   (B)   For seniors, the term of office shall run from September 1 of the
school year to June 30 of that school year. For all others, the term shall run
from September 1 of the school year appointed to June 30 of the following
school year.
   (C)   The City Council liaisons to the Youth Committee have the sole
authority to remove any member of the Committee before the expiration of their
term and may do so with or without cause or with or without a reason.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-54) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-55 DUTIES OF THE COMMITTEE.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Youth Committee may consist of the
following:
   (A)   Maintain and update a city teen webpage and/or social media;
   (B)   Maintain and update a youth community and volunteer service directory;
   (C)   Maintain a youth employment directory as part of the city’s teen
webpage;
   (D)   Develop or participate in an annual local youth job fair;
   (E)   Annually review and recommend new teen recreation programs and events;
   (F)   Plan one or two teen recreation programs each year;
   (G)   Participate as volunteers at city sponsored events;
   (H)   Work cooperatively with the Dana Point Youth Board on projects of
mutual interest;
   (I)   Hold annual joint meeting with the City Council;
   (J)   Hold annual joint meeting with the Parks, Recreation and Senior
Commission to review and provide feedback on teen programs;
   (K)   Each member shall participate in or attend at least one of the
quarterly city sponsored special teen programs; and
   (L)   Provide youth input on city projects and/or programs upon request of
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-55) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-56 TIME, PLACE AND QUORUM FOR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Youth Committee shall meet monthly from September through June.
   (B)   All meetings of the Committee shall be held at the City Hall.
   (C)   A quorum for the transaction of any business shall be five members of
the Committee.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-56) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-57 OFFICERS.
   The Committee shall, annually in October of each year, select one of its
members to serve as Chairperson of the committee and a second member to serve
as Vice Chair of the Committee.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-57) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 2-3-58 STAFF ASSISTANCE.
   The Recreation Supervisor who is responsible for youth/teen programs shall
provide the necessary staff for the Committee, under the direction of the Parks
and Recreation Director. The Recreation Supervisor shall also provide
assistance to the City Council during the interview process.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-58) (Ord. 2019-198, § 3, passed 10-1-2019)
***** CHAPTER 4: CITY MANAGER *****
Section
2-4-1   Office established; appointment
2-4-2   Eligibility of Council members
2-4-3   Compensation
2-4-4   Expense reimbursement
2-4-5   Acting City Manager
2-4-6   Powers and duties
2-4-7   Preclusion on the employment of relatives of Council members
2-4-8   Relations with Council
2-4-9   Departmental cooperation
2-4-10   Attendance at meetings of commissions, boards and committees
2-4-11   Removal
2-4-12   Agreements for additional conditions of employment
§ 2-4-1 OFFICE ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT.
   The office of the city manager is created and established. The City Manager
shall be appointed by the City Council on the basis of administrative and
executive ability and such other qualifications as the City Council may deem
necessary for the orderly conduct of the city’s business and affairs. The City
Manager shall hold office for and during the pleasure of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-1) (Ord. 90-18, § 1 (2.08.010), passed 6-19-1990)
§ 2-4-2 ELIGIBILITY OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   No member of the City Council shall be eligible for appointment as City
Manager until one year has elapsed after such Council member has ceased to be a
member of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-2) (Ord. 90-18, § 1 (2.08.020), passed 6-19-1990)
§ 2-4-3 COMPENSATION.
   The City Manager shall receive such compensation and expense allowances as
the City Council shall from time to time determine, and such compensation shall
be a proper charge against such funds of the city as the Council shall
designate.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-3) (Ord. 90-18, § 1 (2.08.030), passed 6-19-1990)
§ 2-4-4 EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT.
   The City Manager shall be reimbursed for all actual and necessary expenses
incurred by them in the performance of their official duties, including those
incurred when traveling on business pertaining to the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-4) (Ord. 90-18, § 1 (2.08.040), passed 6-19-1990)
§ 2-4-5 ACTING CITY MANAGER.
   The Assistant City Manager shall serve as Manager Pro Tem during any
temporary absence or disability of the City Manager. In the absence of an
Assistant City Manager, the City Manager, by letter filed with the City Clerk,
shall designate a qualified city administrative officer to exercise the powers
and perform the duties of Manager during their temporary absence or disability.
The City Council may, in any case, appoint an acting City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-5) (Ord. 90-18, § 1 (2.08.050), passed 6-19-1990)
§ 2-4-6 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Manager shall be the administrative head of the government of
the city under the direction and control of the City Council, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter. The City Manager shall be responsible for
the efficient administration of all affairs of the city which are under their
control.
   (B)   In addition to their general powers as administrative head, and not as
a limitation thereon, they shall be expected to, and shall have the power to:
      (1)   Enforce all laws and ordinances of the city and to see that all
franchises, contracts, permits and privileges granted by the City Council are
faithfully observed;
      (2)   Appoint, remove, promote and demote any and all officers and
employees of the city except elected officers, the City Attorney and the City
Treasurer, subject to all applicable personnel rules and regulations which may
be adopted by the City Council;
      (3)   Pursuant to California Government Code, § 34856, the City Council
vests the power to appoint the City Clerk in the City Manager;
      (4)   Control, order and give directions to all department heads who are
subject to their appointment and removal authority, and to subordinate officers
and employees of the city under their jurisdiction through their department
heads;
      (5)   Conduct studies and effect such organization and reorganization of
offices, positions or units under their direction as may be indicated in the
interest of efficient, effective and economical conduct of the city’s business;
      (6)   Recommend the adoption of such measures and ordinances as they deem
necessary and proper for the health, safety, welfare and well-being of the
city;
      (7)   Except when their removal is under consideration, attend all
meetings of the City Council unless excused therefrom by the Mayor or the City
Council as a whole;
      (8)   Prepare and submit the proposed biennial budget and the proposed
annual salary plan to the City Council for its approval;
      (9)   Keep the City Council at all times fully advised as to the
financial condition and needs of the city;
      (10)   Investigate the affairs of the city and any department or division
thereof and any contract or other obligation of the city; investigate all
complaints concerning the administration of the city government and the service
maintained by public utilities in the city;
      (11)   Exercise general supervision over all public buildings, public
parks and all other public properties which are under the control and
jurisdiction of the city;
      (12)   Have the same authority as the Mayor when authorized and directed
by the City Council to sign documents specified in the California Government
Code, § 40602 whenever such documents have been approved by the City Council
for execution; and
      (13)   Perform such other responsibilities and exercise such other powers
as may be delegated to them from time to time by ordinance or resolution or
other official action of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-6) (Ord. 90-18, § 1 (2.08.060), passed 6-19-1990; Ord. 2000-
116, § 1, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 2-4-7 PRECLUSION ON THE EMPLOYMENT OF RELATIVES OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to balance the goals of having an
open employment recruitment practice where selection is based on the
qualifications of each candidate with the intent of the city to avoid the
appearance or favoritism or a conflict of interest in the employment or
appointment of relatives of currently serving Council members.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the general power of the City Manager to appoint,
remove, promote and demote all officers and employees of the city, except the
City Attorney, as provided in §
2-4-6(B)(1), the City Manager shall not employ or appoint any relative of a
currently serving Council member. For purposes of this section, the term
RELATIVE shall mean the spouse, parent, sibling (including foster or step),
children (including adoptive, foster or step), in-laws, grandparent or
grandchild, aunt or uncle, niece or nephew. In addition, RELATIVE also means
any other legally related person (e.g., grand-nephew, grand-niece, cousin or
other relative) not listed in the preceding sentence; provided that a person in
this latter group of relatives must live in the same household as the currently
serving City Council member.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-7) (Ord. 2022-213, § 3, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 2-4-8 RELATIONS WITH COUNCIL.
   The City Council and its members shall deal with the administrative services
of the city only through the City Manager, except for the purpose of inquiry,
and neither the City Council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any
subordinates of the City Manager. For purposes of this section, the term
INQUIRY means any and all communications short of giving orders, directions or
instructions to any member of the administrative staff. Such members shall
provide all information reasonably requested by any Council member. The City
Manager shall take their orders and instructions from the City Council only
when sitting in a duly convened meeting of the City Council, and no individual
Council member shall give any orders or instructions to the City Manager. The
City Council shall instruct the City Manager in matters of policy. Any action,
determination or omission of the City Manager shall be subject to review by the
City Council. The City Council may not overrule, change or modify any such
action, determination or omission except by the affirmative vote of at least
three members of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-8) (Ord. 90-18, § 1 (2.08.070), passed 6-19-1990; Ord. 2022-
213, § 3, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 2-4-9 DEPARTMENTAL COOPERATION.
   It shall be the duty of all subordinate officers, the City Attorney and the
City Clerk to assist the City Manager in administering the affairs of the city
efficiently, economically and harmoniously.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-9) (Ord. 90-18, § 1 (2.08.080), passed 6-19-1990; Ord. 2022-
213, § 3, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 2-4-10 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS OF COMMISSIONS, BOARDS AND COMMITTEES.
   The City Manager may attend any and all meetings of the Planning Commission
and any other commission, board or committee created by the City Council, upon
their own volition or upon direction of the City Council. At any such meeting
which the City Manager attends, they shall be heard by such commission, board
or committee as to all matters upon which they wish to address the members
thereof. They shall inform such members as to the status of any matter being
considered by the City Council pertaining to that commission, board or
committee, and they shall cooperate to the fullest extent with members of all
commissions, boards or committees appointed by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-10) (Ord. 90-18, § 1 (2.08.090), passed 6-19-1990; Ord.
2022-213, § 3, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 2-4-11 REMOVAL.
   The removal of the City Manager shall be effected only by a majority vote of
the whole Council as then constituted, convened in a regular Council meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-11) (Ord. 90-18, § 1 (2.08.100), passed 6-19-1990; Ord.
2022-213, § 3, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 2-4-12 AGREEMENTS FOR ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a limitation on the power or
authority of the City Council to enter into any supplemental agreement with the
City Manager delineating additional terms and conditions of employment not
inconsistent with any provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-12) (Ord. 90-18, § 1 (2.08.110), passed 6-19-1990; Ord.
2022-213, § 3, passed 4-5-2022)
***** CHAPTER 5: CITY CLERK *****
Section
2-5-1   Authority for establishment of office
2-5-2   Compensation
2-5-3   Functions
§ 2-5-1 AUTHORITY FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE.
   The office of the City Clerk is established pursuant to California
Government Code, § 36501.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-1) (Ord. 90-18, § 2 (2.09.010), passed 6-19-1990)
§ 2-5-2 COMPENSATION.
   The City Clerk shall receive such compensation and expense allowance as the
City Manager shall from time to time determine within the compensation limits
established by the City Council, and such compensation shall be a proper charge
against such funds of the city as the City Council shall designate.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-2) (Ord. 90-18, § 2 (2.09.020), passed 6-19-1990; Ord. 2000-
116, § 2, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 2-5-3 FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities
granted to and imposed upon the office of the City Clerk by the provisions of
California Government Code, §§ 40801 et seq., except as provided in this
section, other general laws of the state, the provisions of this code and the
ordinances and resolutions of the City Council.
   (B)   The principal functions of the City Clerk shall be to:
      (1)   Attend all meetings of the City Council and be responsible for the
recordation and maintenance of a record of all the actions of the Council;
      (2)   Keep all ordinances and resolutions of the Council in such a manner
that the information contained therein will be readily accessible and open to
the public. The City Clerk shall attach to the original copy of each ordinance
a certificate which shall state the date the ordinance was adopted and, as to
an ordinance requiring publication, that the ordinance has been published or
posted in accordance with law;
      (3)   Keep all records of the Council and of the office of the City Clerk
in such a manner that the information contained therein will be readily
accessible and open to the public until such time as any of the records may be
destroyed, or reproduced and the original destroyed, in accordance with state
law;
      (4)   Serve as the official custodian of all city records;
      (5)   Be the custodian of the seal of the city;
      (6)   Prepare agendas for City Council meetings with and under the
direction of the City Manager;
      (7)   Perform the duties prescribed by the California Elections Code in
conducting municipal elections;
      (8)   Perform the duties imposed upon City Clerks by the California
Political Reform Act of 1974, being California Government Code, §§ 81000 et
seq.;
      (9)   Be responsible for the publication of all official advertising for
the city;
      (10)   Be responsible for the maintenance and distribution of the
municipal code;
      (11)   Process all claims filed against the city and its officers, agents
or employees, pursuant to California Government Code, §§ 900 et seq.; and
      (12)   Perform such other duties consistent with this code as may be
required of the City Clerk by the City Council or the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-3) (Ord. 90-18, § 2 (2.09.030), passed 6-19-1990; Ord. 2000-
116, § 2, passed 1-2-2001)
***** CHAPTER 6: CITY TREASURER *****
Section
2-6-1   Authority for establishment of office
2-6-2   Compensation
2-6-3   Functions
Cross-reference:
Revenue and finance, Title 3
§ 2-6-1 AUTHORITY FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE.
   The office of the city treasurer is established, pursuant to California
Government Code, § 36501.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-1) (Ord. 90-18, § 3 (2.10.010), passed 6-19-1990)
§ 2-6-2 COMPENSATION.
   The City Treasurer shall receive such compensation and expense allowance as
the City Council shall from time to time determine, and such compensation shall
be a proper charge against such funds of the city as the City Council shall
designate.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-2) (Ord. 90-18, § 3 (2.10.020), passed 6-19-1990)
§ 2-6-3 FUNCTIONS.
   The City Treasurer shall perform such duties as are prescribed by California
Government Code, §§ 41001 through 41007 and by any other provisions of law
applicable to deposit, investment and safekeeping of public funds of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-3) (Ord. 90-18, § 3 (2.10.030), passed 6-19-1990)
***** CHAPTER 6.1: DIRECTOR OF FINANCE *****
Section
2-6.1-1   Authority for establishment of office
2-6.1-2   Compensation
2-6.1-3   Functions
Editor’s note:
Ord. 2000-116, § 3, adopted 1-2-2001, amended the code by adding a new Title 2,
Chapter 6.1, §§ 2-6-11 through 2-6-13. In order to maintain the style of
section numbering established in this code, the sections have been renumbered
as §§ 2-6.5-1 through 2-6.5-3 at the editor’s discretion.
§ 2-6.1-1 AUTHORITY FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE.
   The office of director of finance is established pursuant to California
Government Code, § 40805.5. The City Manager is vested with the power to
appoint the Director of Finance.
(Prior Code, § 2-6.5-1) (Ord. 2000-116, § 3, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 2-6.1-2 COMPENSATION.
   The City Director of Finance shall receive such compensation and expense
allowance as the City Manager shall from time to time determine within the
compensation limits established by the City Council, and such compensation
shall be a proper charge against such funds of the city as the City Council
shall designate.
(Prior Code, § 2-6.5-2) (Ord. 2000-116, § 3, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 2-6.1-3 FUNCTIONS.
   The City Director of Finance shall perform such duties as are prescribed by
California Government Code, §§ 40802 through 40805, by other general laws of
the state; the provisions of this code; the ordinances, resolutions and
directions of the City Council; and as directed by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 2-6.5-3) (Ord. 2000-116, § 3, passed 1-2-2001)
***** CHAPTER 7: CITY ATTORNEY *****
Section
2-7-1   Office established; employment of additional attorneys
2-7-2   Compensation
2-7-3   Functions
§ 2-7-1 OFFICE ESTABLISHED; EMPLOYMENT OF ADDITIONAL ATTORNEYS.
   (A)   The office of the city attorney is hereby established. It shall
consist of the City Attorney and such assistants as may be authorized by the
Council. The City Attorney shall administer the office and be responsible for
the diligent performance of its functions. They shall serve under the direct
supervision and control of the Council as its legal advisor.
   (b)   The Council may retain or employ such other attorneys, assistants or
special counsel as may be needed to undertake any litigation or special legal
matters or to assist the City Attorney therein.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-1) (Ord. 90-18, § 4 (2.11.010), passed 6-19-1990)
§ 2-7-2 COMPENSATION.
   The City Attorney shall receive such compensation and expense allowance as
the City Council shall from time to time determine, and such compensation shall
be a proper charge against such funds of the city as the City Council shall
designate.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-2) (Ord. 90-18, § 4 (2.11.020), passed 6-19-1990)
§ 2-7-3 FUNCTIONS.
   The functions of the office of the City Attorney shall be to:
   (A)   Advise the Council and all city officers in all matters of law
pertaining to their offices;
   (B)   Attend all meetings of the Council, except when excused or disabled,
and give advice or opinions on the legality of all matters under consideration.
The City Attorney may also be directed to attend meetings of city boards,
committees or commissions and to provide similar legal services;
   (C)   Prepare or approve all ordinances, resolutions, agreements, contracts,
bonds and other legal instruments as shall be required for the proper conduct
of the business of the city; and
   (D)   Perform such other legal duties as may be required by the Council or
as may be necessary to complete the performance of the functions listed in this
section.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-3) (Ord. 90-18, § 4 (2.11.030), passed 6-19-1990)
***** CHAPTER 8: POLITICAL REFORM *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Reserved
2-8-1—2-8-10   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Campaign Contribution Limitations
2-8-11   Name
2-8-12   Purpose
2-8-13   Relation to the Political Reform Act of 1974
2-8-14   Definition
2-8-15   Contribution limitations
2-8-16   Aggregation of contributions
2-8-17   Non-city elections
2-8-18   Prohibition on multiple campaign committees
2-8-19   Loans to city candidates and City Council members and their controlled
committees
2-8-20   Campaign contribution disclosure
2-8-21   Criminal misdemeanor actions
2-8-22   Applicability of other laws
2-8-23   Interpretation of subchapter
2-8-24—2-8-30   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Term Limits for Council members
2-8-31   Term limits for Council members
2-8-32—2-8-34   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Electronic Filing of Campaign Disclosure Statements and
Statements of Economic Interests
2-8-35   Use of electronic filing system
2-8-36   Filing options when a copy must be filed with City Clerk
2-8-37   Paper filing not required after electronic filing
2-8-38   Electronic confirmation
2-8-39   Paper filing when cannot file electronically
2-8-40   Internet posting of data
2-8-41   Records retention
2-8-42   Administrative policies and procedures
Cross-reference:
City Treasurer, §
2-6-1 et seq.
Health services fee, §
6-4-40 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. RESERVED ****
§§ 2-8-1 – 2-8-10 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2003-130, § 2, adopted 1-3-2003, amended the code by repealing former
Subchapter 1, §§ 2-8-1 through 2-8-5, in its entirety. Former Subchapter 1
pertained to receipt and reporting of gifts, and derived from Ord. 94-72,
adopted 3-1-1994.
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTION LIMITATIONS ****
§ 2-8-11 NAME.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Laguna Niguel
Campaign Contribution Limitation Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-11) (Ord. 94-71, § 1, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 2-8-12 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to ensure that the financial strength of
individuals or organizations does not permit them to exercise a
disproportionate or controlling influence on the election of members of the
City Council and the outcome of the vote on city ballot measures. To achieve
this purpose, this subchapter is designed to reduce the influence of large
contributions, by limiting the size of contributions and requiring additional
disclosure of contributions, in order to ensure that individuals and interest
groups continue to have a fair and equal opportunity to participate in
elections for City Council and on city ballot measures, and to maintain public
trust in governmental institutions and the electoral process.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-12) (Ord. 94-71, § 1, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 2-8-13 RELATION TO THE POLITICAL REFORM ACT OF 1974.
   This subchapter is intended to supplement the Political Reform Act of 1974.
Unless a term is specifically defined in this subchapter or the contrary is
stated or clearly appears from the context, words and phrases shall have the
same meaning as when they are used in California Government Code, Title 9, in
which the Political Reform Act of 1974 is codified, as the same may be from
time to time amended.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-13) (Ord. 94-71, § 1, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 2-8-14 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY CANDIDATE. Any person who is a candidate for member of the City
Council, or who is a member of the City Council that is subject to a recall
election.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-14) (Ord. 94-71, § 1, passed 2-15-1994; Ord. 99-113, § 1,
passed 11-16-1999)
§ 2-8-15 CONTRIBUTION LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No person or committee shall make to any city candidate or their
controlled committee, and no such candidate or their controlled committee shall
accept from any such person or committee, a contribution or contributions
totaling more than $1,000.00 for any City Council election at which the
candidate is on the ballot or a write-in candidate.
   (B)   No person shall make to any City Council member who is subject to a
recall election or to a controlled committee of such a Council member, and no
such Council member or Committee shall accept from any such person, a
contribution or contributions totaling more than $1,000.00 for the recall
election.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a candidate’s
contribution of their personal funds to their own campaign committee, but shall
apply to contributions from a spouse’s separate property.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-15) (Ord. 94-71, § 1, passed 2-15-1994; Ord. 99-113, § 1,
passed 11-16-1999; Ord. 2003-130, § 1, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 2-8-16 AGGREGATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   All contributions made by a sponsored committee to a city candidate or
to a City Council member (or to a committee controlled by such a candidate or
Council member) shall be combined with those contributions made by the sponsor
or sponsors of the committee, and the combined amount shall not exceed
$1,000.00 for any city election.
   (B)   Two or more entities shall be treated as one person when any of the
following circumstances apply.
      (1)   The entities share the majority of members of their boards of
directors.
      (2)   The entities share two or more officers.
      (3)   The entities are owned or controlled by the same majority
shareholder or shareholders.
      (4)   The entities are in a parent-subsidiary relationship.
   (C)   An individual and any general or limited partnership in which the
individual has a 10% or more share, or an individual and any corporation in
which the individual owns a controlling interest (50% or more), shall be
treated as one person.
   (D)   No committee which supports or opposes a candidate for city office
shall have as a majority of its officers individuals who serve as the majority
of officers on any other committee which supports or opposes the same
candidate. No such committee shall act in concert with, or solicit or make
contributions on behalf of, any other committee. This division (D) shall not
apply to treasurers of committees if these treasurers do not participate in or
control in any way a decision on whether the candidate or candidates receive
contributions.
   (E)   Contributions by a husband and wife shall be treated as separate
contributions and shall not be aggregated.
   (F)   Contributions by children under 18 years of age shall be treated as
contributions by their parents and attributed proportionally to each parent
(one-half to each parent or the total to a single custodial parent).
(Prior Code, § 2-8-16) (Ord. 94-71, § 1, passed 2-15-1994; Ord. 2003-130, § 1,
passed 6-3-2003)
§ 2-8-17 NON-CITY ELECTIONS.
   Contributions made to a Council member or a city candidate or a controlled
committee of such persons during an election for a City Council seat are not
subject to the contribution limitations contained in §
2-8-15, if those contributions are made to such a person or controlled
committee in connection with the person’s candidacy for election to some office
other than City Council, the contributions are received and disbursed by a
committee which is established solely for the purpose of supporting such
candidacy, and the contributions are not used in support of the person’s
candidacy for election to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-17) (Ord. 99-113, § 1, passed 11-16-99)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 99-113, § 1, adopted 11-16-1999, amended the code by repealing former §
2-8-17, and adding a new § 2-8-17 to read as herein set out. Former § 2-8-17
pertained to election cycles, and derived from Ord. 94-71, adopted 2-15-1994.
§ 2-8-18 PROHIBITION ON MULTIPLE CAMPAIGN COMMITTEES.
   A city candidate or a City Council member shall have no more than one
campaign committee, which shall have only one bank account out of which all
qualified campaign and office holder expenses related to election to the City
Council shall be made. This section does not prevent a city candidate or a City
Council member from establishing another campaign committee, and bank account
for that committee, solely for the purpose of running for any elective office
other than City Council, or for opposing their recall.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-18) (Ord. 94-71, § 1, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 2-8-19 LOANS TO CITY CANDIDATES AND CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS AND THEIR CONTROLLED
COMMITTEES.
   (A)   A loan shall be considered a contribution from the maker and the
guarantor of the loan and shall be subject to the contribution limitations of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Every loan to a city candidate or City Council member or their
controlled committees shall be by written agreement, which shall be filed with
the campaign statement on which the loan is first reported.
   (C)   The proceeds of a loan made to a city candidate or City Council member
by a commercial lending institution in the regular course of business on the
same terms available to members of the public shall not be subject to the
contribution limitations of this subchapter if the loan is made directly to the
city candidate or City Council member or their controlled committee. The
guarantors of such a loan shall remain subject to the contribution limits of
this subchapter.
   (D)   Extensions of credit (other than loans pursuant to §
2-8-20(C)) for a period of more than 30 days are subject to the contribution
limitations of this subchapter.
   (E)   This section shall apply only to loans and extensions of credit used
or intended for use for campaign purposes or which are otherwise connected with
the holding of public office.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-19) (Ord. 94-71, § 1, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 2-8-20 CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTION DISCLOSURE.
   In addition to the requirements contained in the Political Reform Act, being
California Government Code, §§ 84100 et seq., city candidates and City Council
members, their controlled committees and any other committee that makes or
receives contributions or makes independent expenditures in support of or in
opposition to a city candidate or city measure shall comply with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Any contribution or contributions which are received from a person
that total $50.00 or more during the period covered by a campaign statement,
which is required to be filed by Chapter 4 of the Political Reform Act, shall
be reported, at the same times, in the same manner and on the same forms as
disclosure of campaign contributions and expenditures is required by Chapter 4
of the Political Reform Act, being California Government Code, §§ 84100 through
84513.
   (B)   No person shall make to any city candidates or City Council members,
or their controlled committees, or to any other committee that makes or
receives contributions or makes independent expenditures in support of or in
opposition to a city candidate or city measure, an anonymous contribution or
contributions that total more than $50.00 in a calendar year. Any anonymous
contribution of more than $50.00 shall not be kept by the intended recipient,
but instead shall be promptly paid to the City Treasurer for deposit in the
City General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-20) (Ord. 94-71, § 1, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 2-8-21 CRIMINAL MISDEMEANOR ACTIONS.
   Any person who willfully violates any provision of this subchapter is guilty
of a misdemeanor. Any person who willfully causes or solicits any other person
to violate any provision of this subchapter, or who aids and abets any other
person in the violation of any provision of this subchapter, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-21) (Ord. 94-71, § 1, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 2-8-22 APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall exempt any person from applicable
provisions of any other laws of this jurisdiction or the state.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-22) (Ord. 94-71, § 1, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 2-8-23 INTERPRETATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter should be liberally construed to accomplish its purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-23) (Ord. 94-71, § 1, passed 2-15-1994)
§§ 2-8-24—2-8-30 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. TERM LIMITS FOR COUNCIL MEMBERS ****
§ 2-8-31 TERM LIMITS FOR COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   No person shall hold office as a member of the City Council if such
person has served on the City Council for two consecutive terms, unless they
have, subsequent to the completion of their last term, been out of office as a
member of the City Council for at least two years.
   (B)   If a person serves for at least two years of a term, that person, for
purposes of division (A) above, shall be considered to have served a full four-
year term.
   (C)   The term limits established by this section shall be applicable to all
terms of office for members of the City Council commencing with the terms for
members of the City Council elected at the November 5, 1996 city general
municipal election. If it is determined that the term limits established by
this section cannot legally be made applicable to the terms for the offices
that are filled at said election, then they will still be effective as to all
instances of the filling of the office of a member of the City Council, whether
it be by appointment or election, that occur after this section goes into
effect.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-31) (Ord. 96-94, § 1, passed 11-5-1996)
§§ 2-8-32—2-8-34 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. ELECTRONIC FILING OF CAMPAIGN DISCLOSURE STATEMENTS AND
STATEMENTS OF ECONOMIC INTERESTS ****
§ 2-8-35 USE OF ELECTRONIC FILING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Any elected officer, candidate, committee or other person required to
file statements, reports or other documents required by California Government
Code, Title 9, Chapter 4 (commencing with § 84100) shall file those statements,
reports or other documents online or electronically with the City Clerk, unless
exempt from the requirement to file online pursuant to California Government
Code, § 84615(a) because the officer, candidate or committee receives less than
$2,000 in contributions and makes less than $2,000 in expenditures in a
calendar year.
   (B)   Any person holding a position listed in California Government Code, §
87200 or designated in the city’s local conflict of interest code adopted
pursuant to California Government Code, § 87300, shall file any required
Statement of Economic Interest reports (Form 700) online or electronically with
the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2023-219, § 3, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 2-8-36 FILING OPTIONS WHEN A COPY MUST BE FILED WITH CITY CLERK.
   In any instance in which an original statement, report, form or other
document must be filed with the California Secretary of State and a copy of
that statement, report or other document is required to be filed with the City
Clerk, the filer may, but is not required to, file the copy electronically.
(Ord. 2023-219, § 3, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 2-8-37 PAPER FILING NOT REQUIRED AFTER ELECTRONIC FILING.
   Any elected officer, candidate or committee or other person who has
electronically filed a statement, report, form or other document using the City
Clerk’s online system is not required to file a copy of that document in a
paper format with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2023-219, § 3, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 2-8-38 ELECTRONIC CONFIRMATION.
   The City Clerk shall issue an electronic confirmation that notifies the
filer that the statement, report, form or other document was received. The
notification shall include the date and the time that the document was received
and the method by which the filer may view and print the data received by the
City Clerk. The date of filing for a statement, report, form or other document
filed online shall be the day that it is received by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2023-219, § 3, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 2-8-39 PAPER FILING WHEN CANNOT FILE ELECTRONICALLY.
   If the City Clerk’s electronic system is not capable of accepting a
particular type of statement, report, form or other document, an elected
officer, candidate, committee or other person shall timely file that document
in paper format or other alternative format with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2023-219, § 3, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 2-8-40 INTERNET POSTING OF DATA.
   The City Clerk shall ensure that the city’s electronic system makes all the
data filed available on the city’s webpage in an easily understood format that
provides the greatest public access. The data shall be made available free of
charge and as soon as possible after receipt and within the time period set
forth in California Government Code, § 84616. Providing a link on the city’s
internet website to the statement, report or other document satisfies this
requirement. The data made available on the city’s webpage shall not contain
the street name and building number of the persons or entity representatives
listed on the electronically filed forms or any bank account number required to
be disclosed by the filer. The City Clerk’s office shall also make a complete,
unredacted copy of the statement, report, form or other document available to
the Fair Political Practices Commission for California Government Code, § 87200
filers.
(Ord. 2023-219, § 3, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 2-8-41 RECORDS RETENTION.
   The City Clerk’s office shall maintain, for a period of at least ten years
commencing from the date filed, a secured, official version of each online or
electronic statement, report, form or other document which shall serve as the
official version of that record.
(Ord. 2023-219, § 3, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 2-8-42 ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The City Clerk is authorized to adopt such administrative policies and
procedures as deemed necessary to implement this subchapter.
(Ord. 2023-219, § 3, passed 4-4-2023)
***** CHAPTER 9: BY-DISTRICT ELECTIONS *****
Section
2-9-1   By-district elections
§ 2-9-1 BY-DISTRICT ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to California Government Code, § 34886, members of the City
Council shall be elected by-district in five single-member districts.
      (1)   Members of the City Council shall be elected in the electoral
districts established by division (B) below and subsequently reapportioned as
provided by state law. Elections shall take place “by-district” as that term is
defined in California Government Code, § 34871, meaning one Council member
shall be elected from each district by the voters of that district alone.
      (2)   A Council member elected or appointed to represent a district must
reside in that district and be a registered voter in that district, and any
candidate for City Council must reside in, and be a registered voter in, the
district in which they seek election at the time nomination papers are issued.
      (3)   Termination of residency in a district by a Council member shall
create a vacancy for that City Council district, unless a substitute residence
within the district is immediately declared and established within 30 days
after the termination of residency.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, each Council
member in office at the time this section takes effect shall continue in office
until the expiration of the term to which they were elected. In the event a
vacancy occurs before the expiration of the term of a Council member in office
at the time this section takes effect, a person who is appointed or elected by
special election to fill such vacancy may reside anywhere within the corporate
boundaries of the city. A person appointed or elected to fill such a vacancy
shall hold the office in accordance with state law.
   (B)   All five Council members shall be elected on a “by-district” basis
from the Council districts shown and numbered on the map titled, “City of
Laguna Niguel District Map”, attached as Exhibit A, a copy of which shall be on
file in the City Clerk’s office. In 2024, and every four years thereafter, the
following three City Council districts shall be elected by-district: District
1, District 3 and District 5. In 2026, and every four years thereafter, the
following two City Council districts shall be elected by-district: District 2
and District 4.
   (C)   Pursuant to California Elections Code, § 21601, as it may be amended
from time to time, the City Council shall adjust the boundaries of any or all
of the districts following each decennial federal census to ensure that the
districts are in compliance with all applicable provisions of law.
(Ord. 2023-226, § 2, passed 1-16-2024)
TITLE 3: REVENUE AND FINANCE
Chapter
   1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   2.   TRANSFER OF TAX FUNCTIONS
   3.   SALES AND USE TAX
   4.   REAL PROPERTY DOCUMENTARY TRANSFER TAX
   5.   TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
   6.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR PURCHASING OF SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT, FOR
PROCURING PROFESSIONAL AND MAINTENANCE SERVICES AND FOR THE DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS
PROPERTY
   7.   PUBLIC WORKS BIDDING PROCEDURES
***** CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS *****
Section
3-1-1   Special Gas Tax Street Improvement Fund
3-1-2   Air Quality Improvement Trust Fund
§ 3-1-1 SPECIAL GAS TAX STREET IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Established. To comply with the provisions of the California Streets
and Highways Code, § 2113 and to avail itself of its benefits pursuant to the
California Streets and Highways Code, §§ 2106 and 2107, there is hereby created
in the City Treasury a special fund to be known as the Special Gas Tax Street
Improvement Fund.
   (B)   Deposit of funds. All monies received by the city from the state under
the provisions of the California Streets and Highways Code for the research,
planning, construction, improvement, maintenance and operation of public
streets by the city, and their related public facilities for non-motorized
traffic, including the mitigation of their environmental effects, the payment
for property taken or damaged for such purposes and the administrative costs
necessarily incurred in such purposes, shall be paid into such fund.
   (C)   Expenditure of funds. All monies in the fund shall be expended
exclusively for the purposes authorized by and subject to the provisions of the
California Streets and Highways Code.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1) (Ord. 89-7, §§ 1—3, passed 12-1-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Highways, rights-of-way and vehicles, see Title 7
§ 3-1-2 AIR QUALITY IMPROVEMENT TRUST FUND.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section is to establish a special fund to
receive revenue distributed by the South Coast Air Quality Management District,
the support the South Coast Air Quality Management District’s imposition of the
additional vehicle registration fee and to bring the city into compliance with
the requirements set forth in the California Health and Safety Code, § 44243 in
order to receive fee revenues for the purpose of implementing mobile source air
pollution reduction programs.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FEE ADMINISTRATOR. The Finance Director of the city or the Finance
Director’s designee.
      MOBILE SOURCE AIR POLLUTION REDUCTION PROGRAMS. Any program or project
implemented by the city to reduce air pollution from motor vehicles, pursuant
to the California Clean Air Act of 1988, being Statutes of 1988, Chapter 1568,
California Health and Safety Code, §§ 39000 et seq., or the plan proposed,
pursuant to the California Health and Safety Code, § 40460 et seq.
   (C)   Administration.
      (1)   Receipt of fees. Vehicle registration fees due pursuant to this
section, disbursed by the South Coast Air Quality Management District and
remitted to the city, shall be accepted by the fee administrator.
      (2)   Transfer of funds. Upon receipt of the city’s share of the
additional vehicle registration fees, the fee administrator shall deposit the
fees into a separate account as specified in division (C)(3) below.
      (3)   Establishment of trust fund. The fee administrator shall establish
a separate interest-bearing Air Quality Improvement Fund trust account in a
financial institution authorized to receive deposits of city funds. Interest
earned by the fees in this account shall be credited only to this account.
      (4)   Use of funds. The fees deposited in and interest credited to the
Air Quality Improvement Trust Fund account shall only be used for the financing
of mobile source air pollution reduction programs or projects.
      (5)   Audits. The city consents to providing the findings of an annual
independent audit for mobile source air pollution reduction programs and
projects financed by the additional motor vehicle registration fee. The audit
of those programs and projects shall be conducted in accordance with the
procedure established to fulfill the audit requirement under Health and Safety
Code, § 44244.1.
      (6)   Appeals. The city shall have the right to appeal the findings and
determinations made as a result of the South Coast Air Quality Management
District audit procedure through the public hearing process described in the
California Health and Safety Code, § 44244.1(c).
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2) (Ord. 91-37, §§ 2—4, passed 6-18-1991)
***** CHAPTER 2: TRANSFER OF TAX FUNCTIONS *****
Section
3-2-1   Assessment and collection of city taxes by county
§ 3-2-1 ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION OF CITY TAXES BY COUNTY.
   Pursuant to and in compliance with California Government Code, § 51501, the
assessment and tax collection duties which otherwise might be performed by a
city assessor and tax collector are transferred to the assessor of the county
and tax collector of the county, respectively.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1) (Ord. 89-8, § 2 (3.20.010), passed 12-12-1989)
***** CHAPTER 3: SALES AND USE TAX *****
Section
3-3-1   Short title
3-3-2   Rate
3-3-3   Operative date
3-3-4   Purpose of chapter
3-3-5   Contract with state
3-3-6   Sales tax imposed
3-3-7   Place of sale
3-3-8   Use tax imposed
3-3-9   Adoption of state law - generally
3-3-10   Same - limitations on adoption
3-3-11   Seller’s permit
3-3-12   Exclusions and exemptions
3-3-13   Amendments to state law
3-3-14   Enjoining collection
3-3-15   Penalty for violation of chapter
3-3-16   Severability
3-3-17   Effective date of chapter
Cross-reference:
Business regulations, see Title 5
§ 3-3-1 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax
Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1) (Ord. 90-9, § 2 (3.21.010), passed 1-16-1990)
§ 3-3-2 RATE.
   The rate of sales and use tax imposed by this chapter shall be 1%.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2) (Ord. 90-9, § 2 (3.21.020), passed 1-16-1990)
§ 3-3-3 OPERATIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be operative on December 1, 1989.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3) (Ord. 90-9, § 2 (3.21.030), passed 1-16-1990)
§ 3-3-4 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   The City Council hereby declares that this chapter is adopted to achieve the
following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions of this
chapter be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:
   (A)   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which complies with the
requirements and limitations contained in the California Revenue and Taxation
Code, §§ 7200 et seq.;
   (B)   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which incorporates provisions
identical to those of the sales and use tax law of the state insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained
in the California Revenue and Taxation Code, §§ 7200 et seq.;
   (C)   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the
California Department of Tax and Fee Administration in a manner that adapts
itself as fully as practicable to and requires the least possible deviation
from the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the
California Department of Tax and Fee Administration in administering and
collecting the state sales and use taxes; and
   (D)   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which can be administered in a
manner that will, to the degree possible consistent with the provisions of
California Revenue and Taxation Code, §§ 7200 et seq., minimize the cost of
collecting city sales and use taxes and at the same time minimize the burden of
recordkeeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4) (Ord. 90-9, § 2 (3.21.040), passed 1-16-1990)
§ 3-3-5 CONTRACT WITH STATE.
   Prior to the operative date, the city shall contract with the California
Department of Tax and Fee Administration to perform all functions incident to
the administration and operation of this chapter; provided that, if the city
shall not have contracted with the California Department of Tax and Fee
Administration prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract
and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first
calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract rather than the
first day of the first calendar quarter following the adoption of the ordinance
from which this chapter is derived.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-5) (Ord. 90-9, § 2 (3.21.050), passed 1-16-1990)
§ 3-3-6 SALES TAX IMPOSED.
   For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers in the city at the rate stated in §
3-3-2 of the gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in the city on and after the operative date of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-6) (Ord. 90-9, § 2 (3.21.060), passed 1-16-1990)
§ 3-3-7 PLACE OF SALE.
   For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or their agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to
the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made.
If a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state or has more than
one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed
and adopted by the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-7) (Ord. 90-9, § 2 (3.21.070), passed 1-16-1990)
§ 3-3-8 USE TAX IMPOSED.
   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in
the city of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after
the operative date for storage, use or other consumption in the city at the
rate stated in §
3-3-2 of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-8) (Ord. 90-9, § 2 (3.21.080), passed 1-16-1990)
§ 3-3-9 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW - GENERALLY.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of California Revenue and Taxation Code, §§
7200 et seq., all of the provisions of California Revenue and Taxation Code, §§
6001 et seq., are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though
fully set forth in this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-9) (Ord. 90-9, § 2 (3.21.090), passed 1-16-1990)
§ 3-3-10 SAME - LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION.
   In adopting the provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, §§
6001 et seq., wherever the state is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this city shall be substituted therefor. The substitution, however,
shall not be made when the word “state” is used as part of the title of the
state controller, the state treasurer, the state board of control, the state
department of tax and fee administration, the state treasury or the state
constitution; the substitution shall not be made when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the city or any
agency thereof rather than by or against the California Department of Tax and
Fee Administration, in performing the functions incident to the administration
or operation of this chapter; the substitution shall not be made in those
sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the state, where the result of the substitution would be
to provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remains subject to tax by the state under the provisions of
California Revenue and Taxation Code, §§ 6001 et seq., or to impose this tax
with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under such
provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation Code; the substitution shall
not be made in California Revenue and Taxation Code, §§ 6701, 6702 (except in
the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828; and the
substitution shall not be made for the word “state” in the phrase “retailer
engaged in business in this state” in California Revenue and Taxation Code, §
6203 or in the definition of that phrase in California Revenue and Taxation
Code, § 6203.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-10) (Ord. 90-9, § 2 (3.21.100), passed 1-16-1990)
§ 3-3-11 SELLER’S PERMIT.
   If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under the California
Revenue and Taxation Code, § 6067, an additional seller’s permit shall not be
required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-11) (Ord. 90-9, § 2 (3.21.110), passed 1-16-1990)
§ 3-3-12 EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the state or by
any city, city and county or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local
Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or
use tax.
   (B)   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the sales tax
the gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property to operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the city in which the sale
is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this state,
the United States or any foreign government.
   (C)   In addition to the exemptions provided in the California Revenue and
Taxation Code, §§ 6366 and 6366.1, the storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of
this state, the United States or any foreign government is exempted from the
use tax.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-12) (Ord. 90-9, § 2 (3.21.120), passed 1-16-1990)
§ 3-3-13 AMENDMENTS TO STATE LAW.
   All subsequent amendments of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, §§
6001 et seq., which are not inconsistent with the California Revenue and
Taxation Code, §§ 7200 et seq., shall automatically become part of this
chapter. This chapter also shall be deemed to adopt by reference the provisions
of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, §§ 7202 through 7203, inclusive,
as now in effect or as later amended, which are required to be included in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-13) (Ord. 90-9, § 2 (3.21.130), passed 1-16-1990)
§ 3-3-14 ENJOINING COLLECTION.
   No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the state or the
city, or against any officer of the state or the city, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this chapter, or California Revenue and Taxation Code, §§ 7200
et seq., of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-14) (Ord. 90-9, § 2 (3.21.140), passed 1-16-1990)
§ 3-3-15 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF CHAPTER.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a
fine of not more than $500.00 or by imprisonment for a period of not more than
six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-15) (Ord. 90-9, § 2 (3.21.150), passed 1-16-1990)
§ 3-3-16 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the chapter and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-16) (Ord. 90-9, § 2 (3.21.160), passed 1-16-1990)
§ 3-3-17 EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter relates to taxes for the usual and current expenses of the city
and shall take effect immediately.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-17) (Ord. 90-9, § 2 (3.21.170), passed 1-16-1990)
***** CHAPTER 4: REAL PROPERTY DOCUMENTARY TRANSFER TAX *****
Section
3-4-1   Short title; statutory authority
3-4-2   Imposition; rate
3-4-3   Payment
3-4-4   Tax inapplicable to instruments in writing to secure debts
3-4-5   Government and its agencies not liable for tax
3-4-6   Tax inapplicable to conveyances to make effective plan of
reorganization or adjustment
3-4-7   Reserved
3-4-8   Partnerships
3-4-9   Administration of chapter
3-4-10   Claims for refund
§ 3-4-1 SHORT TITLE; STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Real Property Transfer Tax Ordinance”.
It is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in California Revenue and
Taxation Code, §§ 11901 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1) (Ord. 89-8, § 3 (3.22.010), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-4-2 IMPOSITION; RATE.
   There is imposed on each deed, instrument or writing by which any lands,
tenements or other realty sold within the city shall be granted, assigned,
transferred or otherwise conveyed to or vested in the purchaser or any other
person by their direction, when the consideration or value of the interest or
property conveyed, exclusive of the value of any lien or encumbrances remaining
thereon at the time of sale, exceeds $100.00, a tax at the rate of $0.27 and
one-half for each $500.00 of consideration or value or fractional part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-2) (Ord. 89-8, § 3 (3.22.020), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-4-3 PAYMENT.
   Any tax imposed pursuant to §
3-4-2 shall be paid by any person who makes, signs or issues any document or
instrument subject to the tax, or for whose use or benefit the document or
instrument is made, signed or issued.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-3) (Ord. 89-8, § 3 (3.22.030), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-4-4 TAX INAPPLICABLE TO INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING TO SECURE DEBTS.
   Any tax imposed pursuant to this chapter shall not apply to any instrument
in writing given to secure a debt.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-4) (Ord. 89-8, § 3 (3.22.040), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-4-5 GOVERNMENT AND ITS AGENCIES NOT LIABLE FOR TAX.
   The United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof, any state or
territory or political subdivision thereof or the District of Columbia shall
not be liable for any tax imposed pursuant to this chapter with respect to any
deed, instrument or writing to which it is a party, but the tax may be
collected by assessment from any other party liable therefor.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-5) (Ord. 89-8, § 3 (3.22.050), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-4-6 TAX INAPPLICABLE TO CONVEYANCES TO MAKE EFFECTIVE PLAN OF
REORGANIZATION OR ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Any tax imposed pursuant to this chapter shall not apply to the
making, delivering or filing of conveyances to make effective any plan of
reorganization or adjustment:
      (1)   Confirmed under the federal Bankruptcy Code, being Title 11 U.S.C.,
as amended;
      (2)   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving
a railroad corporation, as defined in Title 11 U.S.C., as amended;
      (3)   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving
a corporation, as defined in Title 11 U.S.C., as amended; or
      (4)   Whereby a mere change in identity, form or place of organization is
effected.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(1) to (A)(4), inclusive, above shall apply only if the
making, delivery or filing of instruments of transfer or conveyances occurs
within five years from the date of such confirmation, approval or change.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-6) (Ord. 89-8, § 3 (3.22.060), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-4-7 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 3-4-8 PARTNERSHIPS.
   (A)   In the case of any realty held by a partnership, no levy shall be
imposed pursuant to this chapter by reason of any transfer of an interest in a
partnership or otherwise, if:
      (1)   Such partnership, or another partnership, is considered a
continuing partnership within the meaning of I.R.C. § 708; and
      (2)   Such continuing partnership continues to hold the realty concerned.
   (B)   If there is a termination of any partnership within the meaning of
I.R.C. § 708, for the purposes of this chapter, such partnership shall be
treated as having executed an instrument whereby there was conveyed, for fair
market value, exclusive of the value of any lien or encumbrances remaining
thereon, all realty held by such partnership at the time of such termination.
   (C)   Not more than one tax shall be imposed pursuant to this chapter by
reason of a termination described in division (B) above and any transfer
pursuant thereto with respect to the realty held by such partnership at the
time of the termination.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-8) (Ord. 89-8, § 3 (3.22.080), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-4-9 ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER.
   The County Recorder shall administer this chapter in conformity with the
provisions of California Revenue and Taxation Code, §§ 11901 et seq., and the
provisions of any county ordinance adopted pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-9) (Ord. 89-8, § 3 (3.22.090), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-4-10 CLAIMS FOR REFUND.
   Claims for refund of taxes imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be
governed by the provisions of California Revenue and Taxation Code, §§ 5096 et
seq.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-10) (Ord. 89-8, § 3 (3.22.100), passed 12-12-1989)
***** CHAPTER 5: TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX *****
Section
3-5-1   Short title
3-5-2   Definitions
3-5-3   Rate
3-5-4   Exemptions
3-5-5   Operator’s duties
3-5-6   Registration of operators
3-5-7   Reporting and remitting
3-5-8   Penalties and interest
3-5-9   Failure to collect and report
3-5-10   Appeals
3-5-11   Records
3-5-12   Refunds
3-5-13   Actions to collect
3-5-14   Violation of chapter
Cross-reference:
Business regulations, see Title 5
§ 3-5-1 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax”.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-1) (Ord. 89-8, § 4 (3.25.010), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-5-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL. Any structure or any portion of any structure which is occupied or
intended or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes, and includes, but is not limited to, any hotel, inn, tourist
home or house, motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodginghouse, roominghouse,
apartment house, dormitory, public or private club, mobile home or house
trailer at a fixed location, or other similar structure or portion thereof,
duplex, triplex, single-family dwelling except any private dwelling house or
other individually-owned single-family dwelling rented only infrequently and
incidental to normal occupancy or any timeshare as set out in California
Revenue and Taxation Code, § 7280; provided that the burden of establishing
that the facility is not a HOTEL shall be on the owner or operator thereof.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of
any room or portion thereof offered for rent for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes.
   OPERATOR. The person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity
of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession or licensee, or any other
capacity. Where the OPERATOR performs their functions through a managing agent
of any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent also is an
OPERATOR for the purposes of this chapter and has the same duties and
liabilities as their principal. Compliance with the provisions of this chapter
by either the principal or the managing agent is, however, considered to be
compliance by both.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate,
trust, business trust, receiver, trustee or syndicate, or any other group or
combination acting as a unit.
   RENT. The consideration charged, whether or not received, for the occupancy
of space in a hotel valued in money, whether received in money, goods, labor or
otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property and services of
any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The City Manager.
   TRANSIENT. Any person who occupies or is entitled to occupy space in a hotel
by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement
for a period of 30 consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions of
calendar days as full days. Any such person so occupying space in a hotel is a
TRANSIENT until the period of 30 days has expired unless there is an agreement
in writing between the operator and the occupant providing for a longer period
of occupancy. In determining whether a person is a TRANSIENT, an uninterrupted
period of time extending both prior and subsequent to the effective date of
this chapter may be considered.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-2) (Ord. 89-8, § 4 (3.25.020), passed 12-12-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 3-5-3 RATE.
   For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to
and shall pay a tax in the amount of 8% of the rent charged by the operator.
This tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city which is
extinguished only by payment to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent
is paid. The unpaid tax is due upon the transient’s ceasing to occupy space in
the hotel. If, for any reason, the tax due is not paid to the operator of the
hotel, the Tax Administrator may require that such tax be paid directly to the
Tax Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-3) (Ord. 89-8, § 4 (3.25.030), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-5-4 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No tax shall be imposed under this chapter upon:
      (1)   Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which, it is beyond
the power of the city to impose the tax provided in this chapter;
      (2)   Any federal or state officer or employee when on official business;
and
      (3)   Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by
reason of express provision of federal law or international treaty.
   (B)   No exemption is granted except upon a claim therefor made at the time
rent is collected and under penalty of perjury upon a form prescribed by the
Tax Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-4) (Ord. 89-8, § 4 (3.25.040), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-5-5 OPERATOR’S DUTIES.
   (A)   Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter to the
same extent and at the same time as the rent is collected from every transient.
   (B)   The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the amount of the
rent charged, and each transient shall receive a receipt for payment from the
operator.
   (C)   No operator of a hotel shall advertise or state, in any manner,
whether directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be
assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to the rent,
or that, if added, any part will be refunded except in the manner provided in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-5) (Ord. 89-8, § 4 (3.25.050), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-5-6 REGISTRATION OF OPERATORS.
   (A)   Within 30 days after commencing business, each operator of any hotel
renting to transients must register the hotel with the Tax Administrator and
obtain from them a transient occupancy registration certificate, to be posted
at all times in a conspicuous place on the premises.
   (B)   This certificate shall contain, among other things, the following:
      (1)   The name of the operator;
      (2)   The address of the hotel;
      (3)   The date upon which the certificate was issued; and
      (4)   A statement reading substantially as follows: This Transient
Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that the person named on the face
hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax by
registering with the Tax Administrator for the purpose of collecting from
transients the Transient Occupancy Tax and remitting such tax to the Tax
Administrator. This certificate does not authorize any person to conduct any
unlawful business or to conduct any lawful business in an unlawful manner nor
to operate a hotel without strictly complying with all applicable laws,
including but not limited to those requiring a permit from any board,
commission, department or office of this city.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-6) (Ord. 89-8, § 4 (3.25.060), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-5-7 REPORTING AND REMITTING.
   Each operator shall, on or before the last day or one month following the
close of each calendar quarter, or at the close of any shorter reporting period
which may be established by the Tax Administrator, make a return to the Tax
Administrator, on forms provided by them, of the total rents charged and
received and the amount of tax collected for transient occupancies. At the time
the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to
the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator may establish shorter reporting
periods for any certificate holder if they deem it necessary in order to ensure
collection of the tax, and they may require further information in the return.
Returns and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business for any
reason. All taxes collected by operators pursuant to this chapter are held in
trust for the account of the city until payment thereof is made to the Tax
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-7) (Ord. 89-8, § 4 (3.25.070), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-5-8 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Original delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed
by this chapter within the time required shall pay a penalty of 10% of the
amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax.
   (B)   Continued delinquency. For each subsequent 30-day period following the
date on which an operator’s remittance first becomes delinquent, the operator
shall pay a delinquency penalty of 10% of the amount of the tax in addition to
the amount of the tax and the 10% penalty first imposed, up to a maximum of
50%.
   (C)   Fraud. If the Tax Administrator determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of 25% of the
amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in
divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who fails
to remit any tax imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the rate of 1%
per month or fraction thereof on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties,
from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent until paid.
   (E)   Penalties merged with tax. Every penalty imposed and such interest as
accrues under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax
required to be paid in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-8) (Ord. 89-8, § 4 (3.25.080), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-5-9 FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT.
   (A)   If any operator fails or refuses to collect the tax and to make,
within the time provided in this chapter, any report and remittance of the tax
or any portion thereof required by this chapter, the Tax Administrator shall
proceed in such manner as they deem best to obtain facts and information on
which to base their estimate of the tax due. As soon as the Tax Administrator
procures such facts and information as they are able to obtain upon which to
base the assessment of any tax imposed by this chapter and payable by any
operator who has failed or refused to collect the tax and to make such report
and remittance, they shall proceed to determine and assess against such
operator the tax, interest and penalties provided for by this chapter. In case
such determination is made, the Tax Administrator shall give a notice of the
amount so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United
States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so assessed at their
last known place of business. Such operator may, within ten days after the
serving or mailing of such notice, make application in writing to the Tax
Administrator for a hearing on the amount assessed. If application by the
operator for a hearing is not made within the time prescribed, the tax,
interest and penalties, if any, determined by the Tax Administrator shall
become final and conclusive and immediately due and payable. If such
application is made, the Tax Administrator shall give not less than five days’
written notice in the manner prescribed in this section to the operator to show
cause at a time and place fixed in the notice why the amount specified therein
should not be fixed for such tax, interest and penalties. At such hearing, the
operator may appear and offer evidence why such specified tax, interest and
penalties should not be so fixed.
   (B)   After such hearing, the Tax Administrator shall determine the proper
tax to be remitted and thereafter give written notice to the person in the
manner prescribed in this section of such determination and the amount of such
tax, interest and penalties. The amount determined to be due shall be payable
after 15 days, unless an appeal is taken as provided in §
3-5-10.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-9) (Ord. 89-8, § 4 (3.25.090), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-5-10 APPEALS.
   Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Administrator under this
chapter with respect to the amount of the tax, interest and penalties, if any,
may appeal to the City Council by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk
within 15 days of the serving or mailing of the determination of tax due. The
City Council shall fix a time and place for hearing such appeal, and the City
Clerk shall give notice in writing to such operator at their last known place
of business. The findings of the City Council are final and conclusive and
shall be served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed in §
3-5-9 for service of notice of hearing. Any amount found to be due is
immediately due and payable upon the service of notice.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-10) (Ord. 89-8, § 4 (3.25.100), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-5-11 RECORDS.
   It is the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment to
the city of any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period
of three years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such
tax as they may have been liable for the collection of and payment to the city,
which records the Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect at all
reasonable times.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-11) (Ord. 89-8, § 4 (3.25.110), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-5-12 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid
or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the city under this chapter, it may be refunded as provided in
divisions (B) and (C) below; provided a claim in writing therefor, stating
under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded,
is filed with the Tax Administrator within three years of the date of payment.
The claim shall be on forms furnished by the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously
or illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the Tax Administrator that the person from whom the tax has been
collected was not a transient; provided, however, that neither a refund nor a
credit is allowed, unless the amount of the tax so collected has either been
refunded to the transient or credited to rent subsequently payable by the
transient to the operator.
   (C)   A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more than
once or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city by filing a
claim in the manner provided in division (A) above, but only when the tax was
paid by the transient directly to the Tax Administrator, or when the transient,
having paid the tax to the operator, establishes to the satisfaction of the Tax
Administrator that the transient has been unable to obtain a refund from the
operator who collected the tax.
   (D)   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section, unless
the claimant establishes their right thereto by written records showing
entitlement thereto.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-12) (Ord. 89-8, § 4 (3.25.120), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-5-13 ACTIONS TO COLLECT.
   Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient to the city. Any such tax
collected by an operator which has not been paid to the city shall be deemed a
debt owed by the operator to the city. Any person owing money to the city under
the provisions of this chapter is liable to an action brought in the name of
the city for the recovery of such amount.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-13) (Ord. 89-8, § 4 (3.25.130), passed 12-12-1989)
§ 3-5-14 VIOLATION OF CHAPTER.
   Any operator or other person who fails or refuses to register as required in
this chapter or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or
refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the Tax
Administrator, or who renders a false or fraudulent return or claim, is guilty
of a misdemeanor. Any person required to make, render, sign or verify any
report or claim who makes any false or fraudulent report or claim with intent
to defeat or evade the determination of any amount due required by this chapter
is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-14) (Ord. 89-8, § 4 (3.25.140), passed 12-12-1989)
***** CHAPTER 6: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR PURCHASING OF SUPPLIES AND
EQUIPMENT, FOR PROCURING PROFESSIONAL AND MAINTENANCE SERVICES AND FOR THE
DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PROPERTY *****
Section
3-6-1   Adoption of purchasing system
3-6-2   Authority and responsibility
3-6-3   Determination of purchasing requirements and surplus
3-6-4   Purchasing limitations
3-6-5   Competitive bidding procedures
3-6-6   Use of vendors selected by another agency or through cooperative
purchasing agreements
3-6-7   Exemption from bidding
3-6-8   Professional service contracts
3-6-9   Maintenance contracts
3-6-10   Miscellaneous services
3-6-11   Disposal of surplus or obsolete property
3-6-12   Purchasing cards
3-6-13   Blanket purchase orders
3-6-14   Personal financial interests in city contract
§ 3-6-1 ADOPTION OF PURCHASING SYSTEM.
   In order to establish efficient procedures for the purchase of supplies,
equipment and services; to secure supplies, equipment and services at the
lowest possible cost commensurate with quality and quantity needed; to exercise
positive financial control over purchases; to clearly define authority for the
purchasing function through the use of purchase orders, contracts and other
authorized procedures, the purchasing system set forth in this chapter is
adopted for the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-1) (Ord. 95-83, § 1, passed 7-18-1995; Ord. 2001-120, § 1,
passed 10-16-2001; Ord. 2019-196, § 1, passed 3-19-2019)
§ 3-6-2 AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for the purchase of supplies and
equipment, procurement of services and disposition of surplus property is
vested in the City Manager. The City Manager may designate a department
director to serve as the purchasing officer and delegate to that person the
duties and responsibilities imposed by this chapter on the purchasing officer.
The director of each city department is responsible for administering and
ensuring compliance with the purchasing policies for their department.
   (B)   In addition to administering these policies and procedures, each
department director, or their designee, shall do each of the following:
      (1)   Before purchasing supplies and equipment, first consider sources of
supplies and equipment located within the city. The City Council has encouraged
all residents and businesses located within the city to shop locally at
businesses located within the city. In keeping with this policy, city staff
shall make every attempt to purchase supplies and equipment from city
businesses whenever practicable. The purchasing officer shall maintain a list
of city vendors offering the types of supplies and equipment used by the city
and shall circulate this list to all city departments. For purposes of bid
comparison, bids submitted by local vendors shall be reduced by 1% for that
part of the purchase upon which the city will pay sales tax. The 1% adjustment
is afforded to local vendors to recognize the sales tax reimbursement to the
city on such purchases;
      (2)   Direct the inspection of supplies and equipment delivered to
determine their conformance with specifications; and
      (3)   Consider and encourage the purchase and use of recycled and
recyclable materials and products, whenever practicable and as outlined in §
6-3-708.
   (C)   The term DEPARTMENT DIRECTOR, as used in this chapter means the person
who is designated by the City Manager as being responsible for each particular
city department, including, but not limited to, administration, community
development, finance, public works, parks and recreation, City Clerk, City
Attorney and police services.
   (D)   City staff is specifically prohibited from engaging in any unlawful
activity, including, but not limited to, receipt of rebates, kickbacks or other
unlawful consideration. City staff is specifically prohibited from
participating in the selection process when those employees have a relationship
with a person or firm seeking a contract which would subject those employees to
the prohibitions of California Government Code, §§ 87100 et seq. or California
Government Code, § 1090.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-2) (Ord. 95-83, § 1, passed 7-18-1995; Ord. 2001-120, § 1,
passed 10-16-2001; Ord. 2019-196, § 2, passed 3-19-2019)
§ 3-6-3 DETERMINATION OF PURCHASING REQUIREMENTS AND SURPLUS.
   (A)   The adopted budget for each department shall include funding for the
necessary supplies, equipment and services for that department during the
fiscal year.
   (B)   Each department director, or their designee, shall ensure that
sufficient documentation is submitted with a request for purchase to
demonstrate compliance with established policies and procedures and to justify
the acquisition and acceptance supplies, equipment and services.
   (C)   Each department director shall notify the City Manager of all
equipment on hand in the department that is no longer useful to the department.
The City Manager may direct the transfer of such equipment to another city
department, or the trade-in, disposal or donation of such equipment in
accordance with the procedures set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-3) (Ord. 95-83, § 1, passed 7-18-1995; Ord. 2001-120, § 1,
passed 10-16-2001; Ord. 2019-196, § 3, passed 3-19-2019)
§ 3-6-4 PURCHASING LIMITATIONS.
   For the purchase of supplies and equipment, such purchases may be made by
the city officers and employees designated in this section subject to
compliance with the procedures and limitations contained in this section. All
purchases over $3,000.00 require a purchase order or contract, regardless of
whether paid by a credit card. Purchases of supplies and equipment that include
a service component, such as installation or maintenance, require a contract
when the service component cost equals or exceeds the purchase cost of the
supplies and equipment.
   (A)   For purchases of $100.00 or less, petty cash or a credit card may be
used and the applicable department director must approve the purchase. It is
not required that bids be obtained for such purchases.
   (B)   For purchases over $100.00 but less than $3,000.00, the applicable
department director must approve the purchase. No purchase order nor contract
is necessary, and it is not required that bids be obtained for such purchases.
   (C)   For all purchases, including credit card purchases, that are equal to
or exceed $3,000.00 but are less than $10,000.00, the department director must
approve and execute the purchase order, and contract if applicable, for the
purchase. Before the purchase is made, the applicable department shall attempt
to receive three verbal bids from vendors and each of these bids and the
efforts to obtain them must be documented.
   (D)   For purchases that are equal to or exceed $10,000.00, but are less
than $50,000.00, the purchasing officer must approve and execute the purchase
order, or contract, if applicable, for the purchase. Before the purchase is
made, three written bids must be obtained from vendors and each of these bids
must be documented.
   (E)   For purchases of more than $50,000.00, the City Council must approve
the purchase order and/or contract for the purchase. Prior to City Council
approval, three written bids must be obtained from prospective vendors. The
City Council may authorize that such purchase orders or contracts be executed
by the City Manager, or their designee.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-4) (Ord. 95-83, § 1, passed 7-18-1995; Ord. 2001-120, § 1,
passed 10-16-2001; Ord. 2019-196, § 4, passed 3-19-2019)
§ 3-6-5 COMPETITIVE BIDDING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   For purchases of supplies or equipment with a value of more than
$3,000.00 but less than $10,000.00, the applicable department shall attempt to
receive three verbal bids from vendors and each of these bids and the efforts
to obtain them must be documented. For purchases of supplies or equipment with
a value of more than $10,000.00, three written bids must be obtained; and the
applicable department shall solicit bids by telephone or written request to
prospective vendors. Further, the purchase order, and contract, if applicable,
for such purchases shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder,
consistent with the quality, quantity and delivery requirements. The lowest
responsible bidder shall be determined by such factors as reputation, ability,
references, quality of supplies and equipment and price.
   (B)   For the procurement of services with a value of more than $3,000.00
but less than $10,000.00, the applicable department shall attempt to receive
three verbal bids from vendors and each of these bids and the efforts to obtain
them must be documented. For the procurement of services with a value more than
$10,000.00, a request for proposal shall be prepared and submitted to
prospective bidders. Contracts awarded for the performance of services in the
above-listed areas shall be awarded on the basis of the demonstrated competence
of the service providers, and on the service provider’s professional
qualifications necessary for the satisfactory performance of the services
required, and on the fairness and reasonableness of the cost of the services to
the city, and shall not be awarded solely on the basis of cost.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-5) (Ord. 95-83, § 1, passed 7-18-1995; Ord. 2001-120, § 1,
passed 10-16-2001; Ord. 2019-196, § 5, passed 3-19-2019)
§ 3-6-6 USE OF VENDORS SELECTED BY ANOTHER AGENCY OR THROUGH COOPERATIVE
PURCHASING AGREEMENTS.
   The purchasing officer may authorize the purchase of supplies, equipment or
services for which the city would normally follow its own bid procedures from a
vendor who has been awarded by another public agency a contract for the
purchase of the same supplies, equipment or services if said agency utilized
procedures substantially the same as those normally utilized by the city in
awarding its contract to the vendor. The amount of said purchase shall be based
upon the price bid in the other jurisdiction. The contract between the vendor
and the city must have a contract termination date equal to or prior to the
contract termination date listed in the cooperative purchase agreement.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-6) (Ord. 95-83, § 1, passed 7-18-1995; Ord. 2001-120, § 1,
passed 10-16-2001; Ord. 2019-196, § 6, passed 3-19-2019)
§ 3-6-7 EXEMPTION FROM BIDDING.
   The bidding requirements set forth in this chapter may be waived, at the
discretion of the City Manager, when any of the following is applicable:
   (A)   The product is proprietary;
   (B)   After a reasonable attempt has been made to obtain bids, and it has
been determined by the City Manager that no additional vendors can be located;
   (C)   The City Manager finds that emergency conditions require the immediate
purchase of supplies or equipment;
   (D)   Sufficient, satisfactory bids are not received;
   (E)   Supplies or equipment are procured through a cooperative purchasing
program with the federal, state, county or other public agencies;
   (F)   The product can be obtained from only one vendor (sole source);
   (G)   The purchase of a specific brand name, make or model is necessary to
match existing city equipment or facilitate effective maintenance and support;
   (H)   Payments to utility providers and governmental agencies for routine
obligations and expenditures essential to the city’s ability to provide service
to residents and that have been approved in fiscal year operating budgets. This
shall also include contracts with vendors previously approved by the City
Council, which would require significant advanced planning and complications/
interruptions in service delivery to change service providers, such as, but not
limited to, banking services, software license and other technology agreement
renewals, insurance providers and healthcare providers. Such non-discretionary
payments/purchases do not require City Council approval, including those over
the City Manager’s purchasing limit; and
   (I)   The bidding requirements of this chapter are waived by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-7) (Ord. 95-83, § 1, passed 7-18-1995; Ord. 2001-120, § 1,
passed 10-16-2001; Ord. 2019-196, § 7, passed 3-19-2019)
§ 3-6-8 PROFESSIONAL SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES are defined as services provided by any
specially trained and experienced person or firm in the areas of accounting,
administration, architecture, construction management, economics, environmental
analysis, engineering, finance, landscape architecture, law, surveying or other
matters involving specialized expertise or licenses, or unique skills.
   (B)   Contracts awarded for the performance of services in the above-listed
areas shall be awarded on the basis of the demonstrated competence of the
service providers, and on the service provider’s professional qualifications
necessary for the satisfactory performance of the services required, and on the
fairness and reasonableness of the cost of the services to the city, and shall
not be awarded solely on the basis of cost. The competitive bidding
requirements set forth in §
3-6-5 are applicable to the procurement of professional services.
   (C)   For contracts for which the estimated cost of services is less than
$3,000.00, the department director may enter into and execute contracts or
purchase orders procuring professional services. It is not required that bids
be obtained for such services.
   (D)   For contracts for which the estimated cost of services is more than
$3,000.00 but less than $24,999.99, the applicable department shall attempt to
receive three verbal bids from vendors and each of these bids and the efforts
to obtain them must be documented. The department director may enter into and
execute contracts or purchase orders for procuring professional services when
the cost of such services does not exceed $10,000.00.
   (E)   For contracts for which the estimated cost of services is more than
$25,000.00, a request for proposal shall be prepared and submitted to
prospective bidders and bids shall be obtained from prospective bidders and
reviewed.
   (F)   The purchasing officer may enter into and execute contracts or
purchase orders for procuring professional services when the cost of such
services does not exceed $50,000.00.
   (G)   City Council approval is required for all contracts for professional
services when the cost of the services is more than $50,000.00. The City
Council may authorize that such contracts be executed by the City Manager or
the purchasing officer.
   (H)   If the City Council has approved an “on-call” agreement for
professional services, individual amendments to that agreement that provide for
different scopes of work between the amendments, such as work on separate
projects or for different types of professional services, and which do not
exceed $50,000.00, may be approved by the City Manager even if the cumulative
amount of the amendments to the on-call agreement exceeds $50,000.00.
   (I)   Notwithstanding the above provisions of this section, all contracts
for the performance of the annual audit of the city’s financial statements
shall be competitively bid by obtaining at least three proposals for providing
the required services, evaluating the proposals pursuant to criteria set forth
in division (B) above, and awarding the contract based on the best proposal.
Further, the award of all such contracts regardless of cost shall be approved
by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-8) (Ord. 95-83, § 1, passed 7-18-1995; Ord. 2001-120, § 1,
passed 10-16-2001; Ord. 2019-196, § 8, passed 3-19-2019)
§ 3-6-9 MAINTENANCE CONTRACTS.
   For the award of contracts for the maintenance and repair of city equipment
and facilities, the following procedures shall be followed.
   (A)   For contracts for which the estimated cost of services is less than
$3,000.00, the department director may enter into and execute contracts or
purchase orders procuring professional services. It is not required that bids
be obtained for such services.
   (B)   For contracts for which the estimated cost of services is more than
$3,000.00 but less than $10,000.00, the applicable department shall attempt to
receive three verbal bids from vendors and each of these bids and the efforts
to obtain them must be documented. Such contracts shall be awarded based on the
qualifications and experience of the contractor and the amount of the contract
prices. Such contracts may be awarded and executed by the department director
for the provision of such services.
   (C)   For contracts for which the estimated cost of services is more than
$10,000.00, a request for proposal shall be prepared and submitted to
prospective bidders, bids shall be obtained from prospective bidders and
reviewed and the contract shall be awarded based on the responsiveness of the
bids to the request for proposal, the qualifications and experience of the
contractors and the amount of the price or prices included in the bids.
   (D)   Contracts in which the estimated cost of services is more than
$10,000.00 and less than $50,000.00 may be awarded and executed by the City
Manager or the purchasing officer.
   (E)   Maintenance and repair contracts for which the cost of services is
$50,000.00 or more shall be awarded by the City Council, and the City Council
may authorize the City Manager or the purchasing officer to execute such
contracts.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-9) (Ord. 95-83, § 1, passed 7-18-1995; Ord. 2001-120, § 1,
passed 10-16-2001; Ord. 2019-196, § 9, passed 3-19-2019)
§ 3-6-10 MISCELLANEOUS SERVICES.
   (A)   Miscellaneous services are defined to include the services that are
not professional services or maintenance and repair services as those terms are
used in this chapter. For contracts for which the estimated cost of services is
less than $3,000.00, the department director may enter into and execute
contracts. It is not required that bids be obtained for such services.
   (B)   For contracts for which the estimated cost of services is more than
$3,000.00 but less than $10,000.00, the applicable department shall attempt to
receive three verbal bids from vendors and each of these bids and the efforts
to obtain them must be documented. Such contracts shall be awarded based on the
qualifications and experience of the contractor and the amount of the contract
prices. Such contracts may be awarded and executed by the department director
who is responsible for the department for which the services are used.
   (C)   For contracts for which the estimated cost of services is more than
$10,000.00, a request for proposal shall be prepared and submitted to
prospective bidders, bids shall be obtained from prospective bidders and
reviewed and the contract shall be awarded based on the responsiveness of the
bids to the request for proposal, the qualifications and experience of the
contractors and the amount of the price or prices included in the bids.
   (D)   Contracts in which the estimated cost is more than $10,000.00 and less
than $50,000.00 may be awarded and executed by the City Manager or the
purchasing officer.
   (E)   Miscellaneous service contracts for which the cost of service is more
than $50,000.00 shall be awarded by the City Council and the City Council may
authorize the City Manager or the purchasing officer to execute such contracts.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-10) (Ord. 95-83, § 1, passed 7-18-1995; Ord. 2001-120, § 1,
passed 10-16-2001; Ord. 2019-196, § 10, passed 3-19-2019)
§ 3-6-11 DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS OR OBSOLETE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The director of any city department may declare supplies or equipment
held by such department surplus. Such declaration shall be in writing and the
written declaration shall be delivered to the purchasing officer who shall
maintain a written inventory for circulation to and review by each department.
If any department has use of such property, the department director may request
reassignment of such property from the purchasing officer. The purchasing
officer shall have the authority to assign the property to the department best
able to make use of such property. If no department director makes a request
for use of such property after the inventory has been circulated once, the
property shall be deemed surplus.
   (B)   The purchasing officer shall have the authority to exchange for or
trade in on new supplies or equipment all supplies or equipment which have been
deemed surplus.
   (C)   The purchasing officer shall have the authority to dispose of surplus
property or equipment by auction or sale or otherwise after receiving bids or
proposals which, in their judgment, provide the best return to the city.
      (1)   Sale on the open market. The purchasing officer shall cause to be
published at least three days before the sale, in a locally adjudicated
newspaper, a notice of sale setting forth a general description of the property
to be sold, and the day, time and location of the sale. The terms of all such
sales shall be cash in the amount of the full purchase price.
      (2)   Sale by sealed bid or auction.
         (a)   As an alternative to the sale on the open market, the purchasing
officer may, when in their judgment it is in the best interest of the city,
sell surplus property by means of sealed bid or public auction.
         (b)   In the case of sale by sealed bid or public auction, the
purchasing officer shall cause to be published at least three days before the
sale, in a locally adjudicated newspaper, a notice setting forth a general
description of the property to be sold, and the day, time and location of the
sale. The terms of all such sales shall be cash in the amount of the full
purchase price.
         (c)   In conducting an auction, the purchasing officer may contract
with a professional auctioneer and allow a flat fee, hourly fee or percentage
of the amount of the sale to be paid based upon that which is common and
customary method and rate for such auctioneering services.
   (D)   The purchasing officer may, when in their judgment, sale or auction of
surplus property is infeasible or will result in minimal return to the city,
recommend to the City Council that such surplus property be donated to any non-
profit corporation or school located within or serving the city, or sold to
city employees at fair market value. Such surplus property shall only be
donated or sold upon approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-11) (Ord. 2019-196, § 11, passed 3-19-2019)
§ 3-6-12 PURCHASING CARDS.
   The city may provide purchasing cards to city staff to make purchases for
official city business. These purchases are subject to the terms and conditions
of this policy. A purchasing card shall not be used to avoid the requirements
as listed in this policy or due to a lack of insurance and/or indemnification
language associated with such transactions.
§ 3-6-13 BLANKET PURCHASE ORDERS.
   A blanket purchase order is issued to cover all amounts expected to be paid
to the vendor for the fiscal year through the contract term, up to $49,999.99.
Blanket purchase orders expire at the end of the fiscal year or as soon as the
contract ends, whichever is sooner.
§ 3-6-14 PERSONAL FINANCIAL INTERESTS IN CITY CONTRACT.
   (A)   City Council members, city staff and direct family members shall not
have a financial interest in any contract made by them in their official
capacity (California Government Code, § 1090).
   (B)   City Council members, city staff and direct family members shall not
participate in any way to influence a governmental decision in which they have
a financial interest (California Government Code, § 87100).
   (C)   The Political Reform Act (California Government Code, §§ 81000 through
91014) requires designated city officials and employees to publicly disclose
their personal assets and income using a statement of economic interests form
(Form 700).
***** CHAPTER 7: PUBLIC WORKS BIDDING PROCEDURE *****
Section
3-7-1   Informal and formal bidding limits and procedures
3-7-2   Contractors list for informal bidding
3-7-3   Notice inviting informal bids
3-7-4   Notice inviting formal bids
3-7-5   Award of contracts
3-7-6   Other requirements applicable to contracts for public works projects
Editor’s note:
Ord. 2020-208, § 1, adopted 8-18-2020, repealed the former Division 7, §§ 3-7-
1 through 3-7-5, and enacted a new Chapter 7 as set out herein. The former
Division 7 pertained to public works bidding procedures and derived from Ord.
2006-140, § 2, passed 1-3-2006.
§ 3-7-1 INFORMAL AND FORMAL BIDDING LIMITS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The informal and formal bidding limits for “public projects”, as
defined in the Uniform Public Construction Cost Accounting Act, California
Public Contract Code, §§ 22000 et seq., shall be as set forth in § 22032, as
those limits may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   In accordance with the foregoing bidding limits and the current City
Council purchasing policy, public works projects may be:
      (1)   Performed by city employees by force account, by negotiated
contract or by purchase order;
      (2)   Let to contract by informal bidding procedures set forth in this
chapter; or
      (3)   Let to contract by formal bidding procedures set forth in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-1) (Ord. 2020-208, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 3-7-2 CONTRACTORS LIST FOR INFORMAL BIDDING.
   A list of contractors shall be developed and maintained in accordance with
the provisions of the California Public Contract Code, § 22034 and criteria
promulgated from time to time by the California Uniform Construction Cost
Accounting Commission.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-2) (Ord. 2020-208, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 3-7-3 NOTICE INVITING INFORMAL BIDS.
   (A)   All contractors on the list, developed in accordance with §
3-7-2 for the category of work being bid, and all construction trade journals,
as referenced in California Public Contract Code, § 22036, shall be mailed a
notice inviting informal bids.
   (B)   Additional contractors and/or construction trade journals may be
notified at the discretion of the department soliciting bids.
   (C)   If there is no list of qualified contractors maintained by the city
for the particular category of work to be performed, the notice inviting bids
shall be sent only to the construction trade journals specified in California
Public Contract Code, § 22036.
   (D)   If the product or service is proprietary in nature such that it can be
obtained only from a certain source or contractor(s), city procedures governing
sole source procurements shall be followed, to the extent permitted by law.
   (E)   All mailing of notices to contractors and construction trade journals
pursuant to this section shall be completed not less than ten calendar days
before bids are due.
   (F)   The notice inviting informal bids shall describe the project in
general terms and how to obtain more detailed information about the project,
and state the time and place for submission of bids.
   (G)   If, following informal bidding, all bids received are in excess of the
informal bid limit amounts specified in §
3-7-1, the City Council may, by adoption of a resolution by a four-fifths vote,
award the contract, up to the higher amount set forth in California Public
Contract Code, § 22034(d), as the same may be amended from time to time, to the
lowest responsible bidder, if it determines the city’s cost estimate was
reasonable.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-3) (Ord. 2020-208, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 3-7-4 NOTICE INVITING FORMAL BIDS.
   The notice inviting formal bids shall state the time and place for the
receiving and opening of sealed bids and distinctly describe the project. The
notice shall be published at least 14 calendar days before the date of opening
the bids in a newspaper of general circulation, printed and published in the
city; or, if there is no newspaper printed and published in the city, then in a
newspaper of general circulation which is circulated within the city. If there
is no such newspaper circulated in the city, then publication shall be by
posting the notice in at least three places within the city as have been
designated for the posting of its notices. The notice inviting formal bids
shall also be sent electronically, if available, by either facsimile or email
and mailed to all construction trade journals specified in California Public
Contract Code, § 22036. The notice shall be sent at least 15 calendar days
before the date of opening the bids. In addition to notice required by this
section, the city may give such other notice as it deems proper.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-4) (Ord. 2020-208, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 3-7-5 AWARD OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   (1)   In its discretion, the city may reject any bids presented, if
the city, prior to rejecting all bids and declaring that the project can be
more economically performed by employees of the agency, furnishes a written
notice to an apparent low bidder. The notice shall inform the bidder of the
city’s intention to reject the bid and shall be mailed at least two business
days prior to the hearing at which the city intends to reject the bid.
      (2)   If, after the first notice inviting bids, all bids are rejected,
after reevaluating its cost estimates of the project, the city shall have the
option of either of the following:
         (a)   Abandoning the project or readvertising for bids in the manner
described by this chapter; and
         (b)   By passage of a resolution by a four-fifths vote of the City
Council, declaring that the project can be performed more economically by the
employees of the city, may have the project done by force account without
further complying with this chapter.
   (B)   If a contract is awarded, it shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder. If two or more bids are the same and the lowest, the city
may accept the one it chooses.
   (C)   If no bids are received through the formal or informal bidding
procedure, the project may be performed by the employees of the city by force
account or negotiated contract without further complying with this chapter.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City Manager is authorized to award
informally bid contracts pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-5) (Ord. 2020-208, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 3-7-6 OTHER REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS FOR PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to California Civil Code, §§ 9550 et seq., a payment bond is
required for all contracts for public works projects over $25.000.00.
   (B)   All public works projects over $1,000.00 require payment of prevailing
wages and compliance with California Labor Code, §§ 1720 through 1861.
   (C)   All contracts for public works projects require compliance with
applicable provisions of the California Public Contract Code whether or not
informal or formal bidding, or no bidding, is required.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-6) (Ord. 2020-208, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
TITLE 4: RESERVED
[Reserved]; Business Regulations
TITLE 5: BUSINESS AND SPECIAL LICENSES; BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      2.   LICENSE PROCEDURE AND GENERAL LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
      3.   SPECIFIC ADDITIONAL LICENSE REQUIREMENTS AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      4.   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE ORDINANCE
      5.   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      6.   PERMITTING OF TAXICABS AND TAXICAB BUSINESSES
      7.   SIDEWALK VENDING
***** CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Definitions
5-1-1   Reserved
5-1-2   Definitions (B)
5-1-3   Definitions (C)
5-1-4   Definitions (D)
5-1-5   Definitions (E)
5-1-6   Definitions (F)
5-1-7   Definitions (G)
5-1-8   Reserved
5-1-9   Definitions (I)
5-1-10   Definitions (J)
5-1-11   Reserved
5-1-12   Reserved
5-1-13   Definitions (M)
5-1-14   Reserved
5-1-15   Definitions (N)
5-1-16   Definitions (O)
5-1-17   Definitions (P)
5-1-18   Reserved
5-1-19   Definitions (R)
5-1-20   Definitions (S)
5-1-21—5-1-28   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Licenses Required
5-1-29   Businesses requiring license
5-1-30   Multiple businesses
5-1-31—5-1-40   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Business Regulations
5-1-41   Scope
Cross-reference:
Advertising on parked vehicles, see §§
7-1-71 et seq.
Alarm systems and businesses, see §§
11-3-600 et seq.
Ambulance service, see §§
6-9-1 et seq.
Bus passenger shelters and benches, see §§
7-1-120 et seq.
Collection of solid waste, see §§
6-3-17 et seq.
Contents of newsracks, see §§
7-1-110 et seq.
Food handling businesses, see §§
6-4-14 et seq.
Health services fee, see §
6-4-40 et seq.
Item price marking on packaged consumer commodities, see §§
11-13-1 et seq.
Newsrack regulations, see §§
7-1-90 et seq.
Oil drilling and production, see §§
8-8-1 et seq.
Sales and use tax, see §§
3-3-1 et seq.
Smoking in private places of employment, see §§
6-7-16 et seq.
Transient occupancy tax, see §§
3-5-1 et seq.
Zoning, see §§
9-1-20 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. DEFINITIONS ****
§ 5-1-1 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2022-215, § 6, adopted 6-7-2022, repealed § 5-1-1, which pertained to
definitions (A) and derived from Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990.
§ 5-1-2 DEFINITIONS (B).
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any business, trade, occupation, practice or profession.
   BUSINESS SOLICITOR or CANVASSER. See CANVASSER in §
5-1-3.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-1-3 DEFINITIONS (C).
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER. Any person not having an established place of business in the
city who, for themself or as an agent of another, goes from house to house for
the purpose of soliciting orders or subscriptions for any goods, wares,
merchandise or product, of any nature or description, for future delivery,
whether or not advance payments are collected at the time the order or
subscription is taken, except salespeople or solicitors regularly employed by
any wholesale house or jobber who take or solicits orders from retailers or
other merchants conducting a regularly established place of business, or any
person who sells, or offers for sale, any goods, wares, merchandise or products
in their possession where such goods wares, merchandise or products are
delivered at the time and place the sale is made, or persons selling, offering
for sale or delivering to purchasers any farm or garden products where the
products are raised or produced upon the property of the persons offering the
products for sale, whether or not the property is owned or leased by such
persons.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of Laguna Niguel or their designee(s).
   COIN-CURRENCY DEALER. A person dealing in a business where coins or currency
are bought, sold, traded, pawned, auctioned or accepted for sale on consignment
at a price above the face value of such coins or currency upon the basis,
express or implied, that the value above the face value is derived from the
age, rareness, condition, mineral content or historical associations of the
coins or currency. Except for coins or currency, the term COIN-CURRENCY DEALER
shall not include a shop where secondhand merchandise, including, but not
limited to, jewelry or metals, is bought, sold, traded, pawned, auctioned or
accepted for sale on consignment. Shops which buy, sell, trade, pawn, auction
or accept for sale on consignment coins or currency at a price above the face
value of such coin or currency and where secondhand merchandise other than
coins or currency is bought, sold, traded, pawned, auctioned or accepted for
sale on consignment shall comply with § 5-3-105 as to such other secondhand
merchandise.
   COMMERCIAL. Operated or carried on primarily for financial gain.
   COMMERCIAL GARBAGE. Any garbage other than garbage produced upon the
premises covered by the license provided for in this title.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2022-215, § 7,
passed 6-7-2022)
§ 5-1-4 DEFINITIONS (D).
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANCE INSTRUCTOR. Any person, male or female, who participates or otherwise
engages in, while nude, any dance instruction, lesson, demonstration or
exhibition conducted in a dance studio.
   DANCE STUDIO. Any premises or mobile facility where there is conducted the
business or transaction of furnishing, providing or procuring dancing
instructors for the purpose of providing dance instruction, lessons,
demonstrations or exhibitions, while nude, to any person who pays a fee or any
other thing of value as consideration, compensation or gratuity for the right
or opportunity to dance with or observe such nude dancing instructor.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-1-5 DEFINITIONS (E).
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENTERTAINMENT. That which engages the attention agreeably, amuses or
diverts, whether in private, as by conversation, music or other manner, or in
public, by performances, conversation, music or other manner.
   ESCORT. Any person who, for pecuniary compensation:
      (1)   Escorts, accompanies or consorts with another person to, from or
about social affairs, entertainments, places of public assembly or places of
amusement located or situated within the city;
      (2)   Escorts, accompanies or consorts with another person in or about
any place of public or private resort or within any private quarters located or
situated within the city; or
      (3)   Escorts, accompanies or consorts with another person in or about
any business or commercial establishment, or part or portion thereof, located
or situated within the city.
   ESCORT BUREAU. Any business, agency or self-employed or independent escort
who, for pecuniary compensation, furnishes or offers to furnish escorts within
the city.
   ESTABLISHED PLACE OF BUSINESS. The place where any person conducts any
retail or other establishment having a permanent address and being regularly
open for business from day to day during ordinary business hours.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-5) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-1-6 DEFINITIONS (F).
   For the purpose of this title, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIGURE MODEL. Any person, male or female, who poses, or otherwise conducts
himself or herself, to be observed, viewed, sketched, painted, drawn,
sculptured, photographed, filmed, videotaped or otherwise similarly depicted.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-6) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-1-7 DEFINITIONS (G).
   For the purpose of this title, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All animal and vegetable refuse or residue from kitchens,
canneries, bakeries, restaurants, lunchstands, meat, fish, fruit or vegetable
markets and other food handling places, and all household waste or residue that
results from the preparation or care for or treatment of foodstuffs intended to
be used as food or which has resulted from the preparation or handling of food
for human consumption, or any decayed and unsound meat, fish, fruit and
vegetables.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-7) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, 3-6-1990; Ord. 2022-215, § 8, passed 6-
7-2022)
§ 5-1-8 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 5-1-9 DEFINITIONS (I).
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INTRODUCTORY SERVICE. A service offered or performed within the city by any
person for pecuniary compensation, the principal purpose of which is to aid
persons to become socially acquainted or to otherwise assist persons to meet
for social purposes, or which service is generally known or should be known by
the offering or performing party to be used by the recipients thereof for the
purpose of obtaining information about other persons to be used for social
purposes.
   ISSUING DIRECTOR. The official designated to issue licenses as set forth in
§
5-2-1.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-9) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-1-10 DEFINITIONS (J).
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK COLLECTOR. Any person having no fixed place of business in the city
engaged in or carrying on the business of collection, buying or selling from
house to house or from place to place, gathering, collecting, buying or
otherwise dealing in any old rags, sacks, bottles, cans, papers, metal or other
articles commonly known as junk.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person having a fixed place of business in the city engaged
in or carrying on the business of buying or selling, either at wholesale or
retail, any old rags, sacks, bottles, cans, papers, metal or other articles
commonly known as junk.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-10) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-1-11 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2022-215, § 9, adopted 6-7-2022, repealed § 5-1-11, which pertained to
definitions (K) and derived from Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990.
§ 5-1-12 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 5-1-13 DEFINITIONS (M).
[Reserved]
§ 5-1-14 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 5-1-15 DEFINITIONS (N).
   For the purpose of this title, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUDE. Shall have the same meaning as that contained in §
11-12-2.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-15) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-1-16 DEFINITIONS (O).
   For the purpose of this title, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OUTDOOR GATHERING. Any music festival, dance festival, public dance, show or
similar gathering at which music or entertainment is provided by professional
or amateur performers, or by prerecorded means, which is held at any place
other than in a public building or permanent installation, which permanent
installation has been constructed for the purpose of or so constructed that it
can be used for the conducting of such activities as determined by the Director
of Community Development, to which members of the public are invited or
admitted for a charge or free of charge and which is attended by more than
2,500 persons. Parades otherwise licensed by proper governmental authority are
not included within this definition.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-16) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-1-17 DEFINITIONS (P).
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. A person engaged in conducting, managing or carrying on the
business of pawnbroking or the business of lending money for themself or any
other person upon personal property, pawns or pledges, or the business of
purchasing articles of personal property and reselling or agreeing to resell
such articles to the vendors or their assignees at prices agreed upon at or
before the time of such purchase.
   PECUNIARY COMPENSATION. Any commission, fee, gratuity, hire, profit or
reward, or any other form of consideration.
   PEDDLER. Every person who travels from place to place or has a stand upon
any public street, alley or other public place; in the doorway of any room or
building; or upon any lot or parcel of land, who sells or offers for sale any
goods, wares or merchandise in their possession, other than food, except
salespeople or solicitors regularly employed by any wholesale house or jobber
who take or solicit orders from retailers or other merchants conducting a
regularly established place of business. PEDDLER includes sidewalk vendors, as
defined in §
5-7-1.
   PERSON. Both the singular and the plural, and shall also mean and include a
person, individual, firm, corporation, copartnership, association, club,
society or any other organization.
   PROFIT INTEREST. Any interest or share in the present or prospective profit
of an escort bureau or introductory service.
   PUBLIC DANCE. A gathering of persons in or upon any premises where dancing
is participated in, either as the main purpose of such gathering or as an
incidental to some other purpose, and to which premises the public is admitted,
either with or without charge, and to which not more than 2,500 persons shall
be admitted.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-17) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2020-206, § 6,
passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 2020-207, § 6, passed 8-4-2020; Ord. 2022-215, § 10,
passed 6-7-2022)
§ 5-1-18 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 5-1-19 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 5-1-20 DEFINITIONS (S).
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SECONDHAND DEALER. Any person whose business is that of engaging in buying,
selling, trading, taking in pawn, accepting for sale on consignment, accepting
for auctioning or auctioning secondhand personal property. The term SECONDHAND
DEALER also means any person who owns or operates an auction or any other event
at which two or more persons offer secondhand personal property for sale or
exchange and where a fee is charged for the privilege either of offering or
displaying such property for sale or exchange or for admission of prospective
buyers to the area where such property is offered or displayed for sale or
exchange, but does not include a person who owns the land on which the auction
or event occurs if they have no control over such auction or event and has no
personal knowledge of any facts arising from such auction or event which
constitute a violation of any provisions of this title.
   SHOW. A carnival, tent show or show in the open air, or in a hall or
building not specifically constructed for theatrical purposes, wherein
carnivals, circuses, dog or pony shows or dramatic, musical or theatrical
performances are given to audiences not exceeding 2,500 persons.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. For purposes of Title 5, Chapter 3, Subchapter
22, includes any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals or pubic region;
         (b)   Buttock; and
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. For purposes of Title 5, Chapter 3, Subchapter
22, includes the following:
      (1)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following depicted sexually oriented acts or
conduct: anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism or zooerasty;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus
or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks
or female breast;
      (5)   Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating or the
infliction of pain;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation or vaginal or anal
irrigation.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-20) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 5-1-21—5-1-28 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. LICENSES REQUIRED ****
§ 5-1-29 BUSINESSES REQUIRING LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct, manage or carry
on any of the following businesses, practices, professions or occupations
within the city without first having obtained a license therefor in accordance
with Title 5, Chapter 2:
   (A)   Reserved;
   (B)   Reserved;
   (C)   Bingo games;
   (D)   Business solicitor or canvasser;
   (E)   Reserved;
   (F)   Reserved;
   (G)   Reserved;
   (H)   Reserved;
   (I)   Reserved;
   (J)   Outdoor gathering;
   (K)   Pawnbroker, pawnshop, junk dealer, junk collector, secondhand dealer
or coin-currency dealer;
   (L)   Peddler;
   (M)   Reserved;
   (N)   Reserved;
   (O)   Massage establishments;
   (P)   Reserved;
   (Q)   Retail sale of concealable firearms;
   (R)   Reserved;
   (S)   Reserved;
   (T)   Reserved;
   (U)   Figure model studio and figure models;
   (V)   Dance studio and dance instructors;
   (W)   Reserved;
   (X)   Escort, escort bureau and introductory services; and
   (Y)   Sidewalk vending.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-29) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2020-206, § 4,
passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 2020-207, § 3, passed 8-4-2020; Ord. 2022-215, § 11,
passed 6-7-2022)
§ 5-1-30 MULTIPLE BUSINESSES.
   This title shall apply to each and every business, trade, occupation,
profession or practice enumerated in this title and conducted in the city,
whether carried on individually or in conjunction with any other activity.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-30) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 5-1-31—5-1-40 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. BUSINESS REGULATIONS ****
§ 5-1-41 SCOPE.
   The business regulations contained in Title 5, Chapter 3 shall apply to any
business, occupation, practice, profession or trade conducted in the city named
in Title 5, Chapter 3, whether or not a license from the city is required or
obtained therefor.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-41) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
***** CHAPTER 2: LICENSE PROCEDURE AND GENERAL LICENSE REQUIREMENTS *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Application, Fees and Issuance; Revocation; Requests for Review
5-2-1   Issuing officer
5-2-2   Applications
5-2-3   Fees
5-2-4   Duration
5-2-5   Grounds for denial
5-2-6   Investigation and issuance
5-2-7   Form of license
5-2-8—5-2-12   Reserved
5-2-13   Inspections
5-2-14   Display of license
5-2-15   Multiple licenses; duplicate licenses
5-2-16   Revocation or suspension
5-2-17   Transfer
5-2-18   Temporary permits
5-2-19   Requests for hearing
5-2-20   Hearing procedures
5-2-21   Service requirements
5-2-22   Administrative rules and interpretation
5-2-23   Severability
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. APPLICATION, FEES AND ISSUANCE; REVOCATION; REQUESTS FOR
REVIEW ****
§ 5-2-1 ISSUING OFFICER.
   All licenses issued pursuant to this title shall be issued by the issuing
officer, who shall be the City Manager, or their designee(s), unless otherwise
stated.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2022-215, § 12,
passed 6-7-2022)
§ 5-2-2 APPLICATIONS.
   The issuing officer shall receive all applications for licenses and shall
provide such application forms as are necessary for the convenience of the
public and the economic and efficient administration of this title. In the
course of administering this title, the city may engage the County Sheriff’s
Department to assist with investigations, verifications or other aspects of
license application review process.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-2-3 FEES.
   The City Council may provide, and from time to time may amend, by
resolution, the amount of each fee to be charged by the city for the
administration of this title. Such fee shall be payable in accordance with the
resolution and shall not be refundable. Fees required by this title are in
addition to any other fees that may be required under any other section,
provision or division of the municipal code or by the County Sheriff’s
Department to cover the administrative costs of processing the application on
the city’s behalf. No person may commence or continue any business in the city
requiring a business license under this title without timely paying in full all
fees and charges required for the business. The amount of any fee, cost or
charge imposed pursuant to this subchapter is a debt to the city that may be
recovered by any means authorized by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-2-4 DURATION.
   Each license shall be in effect for one year from the date on which it was
issued, unless otherwise stated in this title or otherwise provided by
resolution of the City Council or in the license.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-4) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-2-5 GROUNDS FOR DENIAL.
   The issuing officer shall deny the application for a license if they find
that the following apply.
   (A)   The applicant does not fulfill the specific requirements for such
license as set forth in this title.
   (B)   The applicant has made any false or misleading statement in their
application.
   (C)   The applicant has committed any of the acts delineated in California
Business and Professions Code, § 480, but subject to the limitations on such
denial as specified in said statute.
   (D)   The applicant is not a fit person to carry on the licensed business.
   (E)   The carrying on of the licensed business as described in the
application would not comply with all applicable laws or will be detrimental to
the public health, public morals or public order.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-2-6 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Prior to issuing the license, the issuing officer shall make such
investigation as they deem necessary to determine whether the applicant meets
the requirements and qualifications for such license, and shall thereafter
either issue a license to the applicant or shall notify the applicant in
writing that their application is denied. The issuing officer may consult with
and ask for a recommendation from any other city officer or department prior to
the issuance of any license under this title, and shall, at the request of any
city officer or department, supply such officer or department with a copy of
any such license or application therefor.
   (B)   Submission of an application for a license does not authorize the
operation of a business requiring a license unless and until such license has
been properly granted by the city. Approval of a license does not constitute
approval of any other permit, license or other approval required under this
code or applicable laws to operate the business.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-6) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-2-7 FORM OF LICENSE.
   The license and each duplicate license shall contain the date of issuance,
the date of expiration, a designation of the type of license it is, the
location of the licensed activity, the signature of the issuing officer and
such other matters as are specified in this title and as the issuing officer
deems appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-7) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 5-2-8—5-2-12   RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 5-2-13 INSPECTIONS.
   Every applicant for a license or licensee shall permit the issuing officer
access to any premises or vehicles used in the conduct of the licensed business
at all reasonable times, and to any records required to be maintained by this
title, and the issuing officer shall make such inspections thereof as they deem
necessary from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-13) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-2-14 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Each licensee shall display their license or duplicate license in a
prominent location in each licensed place of business, or if there is none in
the city, shall carry their license on their person at all times when
conducting the licensed business, or, if a vehicle is licensed, in such
vehicle, and each licensee shall display their license to any peace officer
requesting to see it.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-14) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-2-15 MULTIPLE LICENSES; DUPLICATE LICENSES.
   Any person carrying on or conducting more than one of the businesses for
which a license is required under this title shall obtain a license for each
such business. Any person carrying on a licensed activity at more than one
place of business shall obtain a duplicate license for each place of business.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-15) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-2-16 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   When the issuing officer has issued any license under the terms of
this title, the license may be revoked or suspended at any time thereafter by
the issuing officer if they become satisfied that the conduct of the licensed
business does not or will not comport with the public welfare for any reason or
that the business has been conducted in an illegal, improper or disorderly
manner or in a manner substantially different from that described in the
application, or for any reason for which the license application could have
been denied.
   (B)   The issuing officer must serve the licensee with a written notice of
suspension or revocation. The notice must state the reasons for the action, the
effective date of the decision, the right of the applicant to contest the
decision through a hearing and that the issuing officer’s decision will be
final if no written request for hearing is timely submitted to and received by
the city pursuant to this subchapter. If a request for hearing is timely and
properly filed in accordance with this subchapter, then the effective date of
the notice is stayed in accordance with §
5-2-19.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-16) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-2-17 TRANSFER.
   No license issued under the terms of this title shall be transferable, and
no such license shall be displayed or used in conjunction with any activity
other than the licensed business or by any person other than the licensee or
their employee, or at any location other than that indicated on the license and
application.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-17) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-2-18 TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   The issuing officer may, in their discretion, upon the filing of an
application for a license pursuant to this title, issue one temporary permit to
conduct the business described in the application for a period not to exceed 60
days, if they find that the inability to carry on such business because of the
lack of a license would cause hardship to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-18) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-2-19 REQUESTS FOR HEARING.
   (A)   Any person whose application for a license or temporary permit is
denied or whose license is suspended or revoked under the terms of this title
by the issuing officer may request review of the decision through a hearing by
filing a signed, written request on a form provided by the city. At the time of
filing, the person contesting the decision must pay the designated hearing fee,
which may be established by resolution of the City Council. The request for a
hearing shall be made to the City Clerk within 30 days of the decision being
contested and must contain the following:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person contesting the
decision;
      (2)   A true and correct copy of the notice of the decision or action
issued by the city that said person is contesting;
      (3)   A specific statement of the reasons and grounds for requesting the
hearing in sufficient detail to enable the hearing officer to understand the
nature of the controversy, the basis of the hearing and the relief requested;
and
      (4)   All documents or other evidence pertinent to the request for
hearing that said person requests the hearing officer to consider at the
hearing.
   (B)   In the event a written request for hearing is timely filed, the
suspension, revocation, denial or nonrenewal is not effective until a final
order has been rendered and issued by the hearing officer. If no timely, proper
request for hearing is filed in the event of a decision of denial, the license
expires at the conclusion of the term of the license. If no timely, proper
request for hearing is filed in the event of a suspension or revocation, the
suspension or revocation is effective upon the expiration of the period for
filing a written notice of request for hearing.
   (C)   The hearing officer shall hold such a hearing, and notice of the time,
date and place of the hearing shall be mailed to the licensee or applicant at
the address given in the license application at least ten days prior to the
date of the hearing.
   (D)   The hearing officer shall determine whether the license should be
issued, or whether such revoked or suspended license should be reinstated, and
shall direct the issuing officer to act accordingly.
   (E)   Any failure to appear by the person contesting the decision shall be
noted on the notice of decision by the hearing officer, which shall be mailed
to said person by the hearing officer, and shall be considered a failure to
exhaust administrative remedies concerning the decision. In this event, the
issuing officer’s decision to suspend, revoke or deny is final and binding.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-19) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-2-20 HEARING PROCEDURES.
   Unless otherwise stated, any hearing right provided for in this title must
be conducted as set forth in this section.
   (A)   Hearing procedure.
      (1)   The hearing officer will preside over the hearing, hear the matter
de novo and conduct the hearing pursuant to the procedures set forth in this
subchapter. The issuance of the issuing officer’s notice of decision
constitutes prima facie evidence of grounds for the suspension, revocation or
denial.
      (2)   The hearing shall be held not more than 60 calendar days and no
sooner than 15 calendar days from time of referral by the City Clerk to the
hearing officer; provided, however, that the hearing officer may schedule the
hearing more than 60 calendar days out if they reasonably determine that
additional time is necessary or upon the mutual agreement of the parties.
      (3)   Neither the issuing officer nor any other representative of the
city shall be required to attend the hearing, nor shall the hearing officer
require that there be submitted any evidence that may exist among the public
records of the city for the violation. However, such appearance and/or
submission may be made at the discretion of the issuing officer or any city
employee or agent.
      (4)   The hearing shall be conducted informally and the legal rules of
evidence need not be followed. At such hearing, the person contesting the
decision and the city representative may present evidence relevant to the
decision of the issuing officer. The hearing officer may establish additional
procedures not in conflict with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (5)   The hearing officer may continue the hearing as they determine is
reasonably necessary.
   (B)   Hearing officer’s decision.
      (1)   No later than ten calendar days following conclusion of the
hearing, and after considering all of the testimony and evidence submitted at
the hearing, the hearing officer may uphold the suspension, revocation or
denial of the license; provided, however, that the hearing officer may take
more than ten calendar days if they reasonably determine that additional time
is necessary or upon the mutual agreement of the parties.
      (2)   If the hearing officer determines that no grounds for the
suspension, revocation or denial exist, the issuing officer’s notice of
decision shall be deemed cancelled.
      (3)   If the hearing officer determines that one or more of the reasons
or grounds enumerated in the issuing officer’s notice of decision exists, the
hearing officer must issue a written decision containing a finding and
description of each reason or ground to uphold the issuing officer’s decision,
and any other finding that is relevant or necessary to the subject matter of
the hearing.
      (4)   The decision of the hearing officer is final. The written decision
must contain the following statement: “The decision of the hearing officer is
final. Judicial review of this decision is subject to the time limits set forth
in California Code of Civil Procedure, § 1094.6.”
   (C)   Surrender of license. A licensee must immediately surrender their
license to the issuing officer upon said revocation or suspension becoming
final.
§ 5-2-21 SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as otherwise provided, any notice required to be served on an
applicant or licensee under this title must be completed by either personal
delivery, first class mail or, with the prior consent of the applicant or
licensee, electronic service by electronic notification or transmission.
Service by mail is deemed complete at the time of deposit in the mail.
Electronic service is complete at the time of the electronic transmission of
the document or at the time that the electronic notification of service of the
document is sent. Any notice issued to an applicant or licensee may be sent to
the mailing address as listed on the application submitted to the city. Failure
of any applicant or licensee to receive a properly addressed notice does not
invalidate any action, decision, determination or proceeding under this title.
§ 5-2-22 ADMINISTRATIVE RULES AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Consistent with the intent and goals of this subchapter, the issuing
officer may adopt administrative rules and regulations for implementation and
furtherance of the requirements of and may interpret this title, unless
otherwise stated. Such rules and regulations may be enforced as an ordinance in
any manner permitted by this municipal code and applicable laws.
   (B)   To the extent that this subchapter sets forth general procedures, such
procedures shall apply unless more specific provisions governing a particular
category of business license are set forth elsewhere in this title. In such
cases, the specific provisions shall govern and may supplement, modify or
supersede the general procedures as appropriate.
§ 5-2-23 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this ordinance and subchapter is found to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
that invalidity will not affect the remaining provisions of this ordinance and
subchapter, which can be implemented without the invalid provisions, and to
this end, the provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable.
***** CHAPTER 3: SPECIFIC ADDITIONAL LICENSE REQUIREMENTS AND BUSINESS
REGULATIONS *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Massage Establishments
5-3-1   Definitions
5-3-2   Massage establishment license required
5-3-3   Restrictions and regulations
5-3-4   Massage regulations
5-3-5   Authority to administer and enforce subchapter
5-3-6   Inspection and enforcement
5-3-7   Application review and decision
5-3-8   Grounds for suspension and revocation of license
5-3-9—5-3-14   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Reserved
5-3-15—5-3-41   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Reserved
5-3-42—5-3-53   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Reserved
5-3-54—5-3-69   Reserved
Subchapter 5. Reserved
5-3-70—5-3-80   Reserved
Subchapter 6. Reserved
5-3-81—5-3-93   Reserved
Subchapter 7. Reserved
5-3-94—5-3-104   Reserved
Subchapter 8. Secondhand Dealers, Pawnbrokers and Coin-Currency Dealers
5-3-105   Report of acquired property; identification of seller
5-3-106   Report forms; records
5-3-107   Retention of property; inspection of property
5-3-108   Acceptance of property from minors
5-3-109—5-3-115   Reserved
Subchapter 9. Reserved
5-3-116—5-3-127   Reserved
Subchapter 10. Peddlers, Business Solicitors and Canvassers
5-3-128   Misrepresentation in making sales
5-3-129—5-3-138   Reserved
Subchapter 11. Reserved
5-3-139—5-3-150   Reserved
Subchapter 12. Reserved
5-3-151—5-3-168   Reserved
Subchapter 13. Reserved
5-3-169—5-3-184   Reserved
Subchapter 14. Reserved
5-3-185—5-3-196   Reserved
Subchapter 15. Prohibition on Flavored Electronic Cigarette Products
5-3-197   Definitions
5-3-198   Sale or offer for sale of flavored electronic cigarette products
prohibited
5-3-199   Enforcement and remedies
5-3-200   No preemption
5-3-201—5-3-239   Reserved
Subchapter 16. Retail Sale of Concealable Firearms
5-3-240   Licensing authority
5-3-241—5-3-259   Reserved
Subchapter 17. Prohibition on Sale or Distribution of Kratom Products
5-3-260   Authority and purpose
5-3-261   Definitions
5-3-262   Prohibition on sale or distribution of kratom and 7-OH products
5-3-263   Packaging of kratom and 7-OH products
5-3-264   Violations and penalties
5-3-265—5-3-270   Reserved
Subchapter 18. Bingo Games
5-3-271   Application to conduct games
5-3-272—5-3-290   Reserved
Subchapter 19. Model Studios, Dance Studios
5-3-291   Employment of unlicensed figure models, dance instructors
5-3-292   Disrobing by patrons prohibited
5-3-293   Lighting
5-3-294   Hours
5-3-295—5-3-300   Reserved
Subchapter 20. Prohibition on the Sale or Distribution of Nitrous Oxide
5-3-301   Authority and purpose
5-3-302   Definitions
5-3-303   Prohibition on sale or distribution of nitrous oxide
5-3-304   Exceptions to prohibition
5-3-305   Violations and penalties
Subchapter 21. Reserved
5-3-306—5-3-320   Reserved
Subchapter 22. Escorts, Escort Bureaus and Introductory Services
5-3-321   Separate license required for each location
5-3-322   Employment and activities of escorts
5-3-323   Reserved
5-3-324   Names of escorts to be furnished to police
5-3-325   Record of customers and appointments
5-3-326   Prohibited acts
5-3-327   Possession of license
5-3-328   Penalty for violation of subchapter or failure to obtain license
5-3-329   Violations declared nuisance
5-3-330   Applicability of subchapter to existing businesses
5-3-331—5-3-334   Reserved
Subchapter 23. Commercial Motion Picture Productions, Television Productions
and Still Photography on Public Property
5-3-335   Purpose of subchapter
5-3-336   Definitions
5-3-337   Permit required
5-3-338   Exemptions from subchapter
5-3-339   Issuance of permit; surety
5-3-340   Liability of permittee
5-3-341   Duties of film industry liaison, issuing agency and city departments
generally
5-3-342   Denial or revocation of permit
5-3-343—5-3-355   Reserved
Subchapter 24. Reserved
5-3-351—5-3-355   Reserved
Cross-reference:
Animals, see Title 10
Bingo games authorized, see § 11-5-18
Charitable or philanthropic solicitation, see §§
11-10-1 et seq
Commercial manure dealers, see §§ 5-3-185 et seq.
Conduct of bingo games, see §
11-10-30
Firearms and dangerous weapons, see §§
11-2-1 et seq.
Gambling, see §§
11-5-1 et seq.
Health and sanitation, see Title 6
Highways, streets, rights-of-way and vehicles, see Title 7
Police regulations and public protection, see §§
11-7-1 et seq.
Solid waste management, see §§
6-3-17 et seq.
Storage and transport of manure, garbage and the like, §§ 5-3-81 et seq.
Traffic ordinances, see §§
7-4-100 et seq.
Unlawful exposure of private parts and female breasts, see §§
11-11-1 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS ****
§ 5-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of carrying out the intent of this subchapter, unless the
content clearly indicates to the contrary, the following words, phrases and
terms shall have the following meanings.
   CALIFORNIA MASSAGE THERAPY COUNCIL or CAMTC. Nonprofit organization formed
pursuant to California Business and Professions Code, Chapter 10.5, commencing
with § 4600, as amended.
   CODE or MUNICIPAL CODE. The Laguna Niguel Municipal Code.
   COMPENSATION. A payment, loan, advance, donation, contribution or gift of
money or anything of value.
   DISQUALIFYING CONDUCT. Conduct by the applicant that would disqualify the
application for a massage establishment, including any of the following:
      (1)   Within five years of the date of filing of the application in
question or any time after the filing of the application or any time after the
issuance of a license, the licensee has committed or been convicted in a court
of competent jurisdiction of:
         (a)   Any crime specified in California Government Code, §§ 51030 et
seq.; or
         (b)   Any misdemeanor or felony offense which relates directly to the
operation of a massage establishment, whether as a massage establishment owner,
operator, massage technician or employee thereof.
      (2)   Within five years of the date of the filing of the application in
question or any time after the filing of the application or any time after the
issuance of a license, the licensee has had revoked any massage establishment,
operator, massage practitioner, technician, therapist, trainee or similar
license issued by the state or any county or city;
      (3)   Within five years of the date of the filing of the application in
question or any time after the filing of the application and/or any time after
the issuance of a license, the licensee has committed or been convicted in a
court of competent jurisdiction of:
         (a)   Any violation of California Penal Code, §§ 266h, 315, 316 and
318 or 647(b) or 653.23;
         (b)   Conspiracy or attempt to commit any such offense;
         (c)   Any offense in a jurisdiction outside the state which is the
equivalent of any of the aforesaid offenses;
         (d)   Has been found guilty of or pleaded nolo contendere to any
lesser-included offense of the above; or
         (e)   Has been found guilty of or pleaded nolo contendere to any crime
specified in California Government Code, §§ 51030 et seq.
      (4)   Is required to register under the provisions of California Penal
Code, § 290;
      (5)   Has been subjected to a permanent injunction against the conducting
or maintaining of a nuisance pursuant to California Penal Code, §§ 11225
through 11235;
      (6)   Has engaged in, or allowed an employee or massagist to engage in,
touching the specified anatomical areas of oneself or of another person while
providing massage services or while within view of a customer or patron of the
massage establishment, or engaging in specified sexual acts with oneself or
another person while providing massage services or while within view of a
customer or patron of the massage establishment; or
      (7)   Has engaged in, or allowed an employee or massagist to engage in,
the exposing specified anatomical areas of oneself or of another person to view
while providing massage services or while within view of a customer or patron
of the massage establishment.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders any service to the massage establishment,
with or without compensation.
   ISSUING OFFICER. Has the same meaning as defined in §
5-2-1.
   LICENSE. A business license issued pursuant to this Title 5 to operate a
massage establishment.
   LICENSEE. A person that holds a valid license and has obtained all other
necessary approvals from the city to operate a massage establishment.
   MANAGER. An individual who manages or who is otherwise primarily responsible
for the operation of the massage establishment, and shall include each and
every person responsible for establishing personnel policy, hiring personnel,
ensuring that the establishment complies with the requirements of this code and
of other laws, and of establishing and administering any and all policies
established by the owner for the operation of the establishment.
   MASSAGE. The scientific manipulation of the soft tissues, including, but not
limited to, any method of treating any of the external parts of the body for
remedial, health or hygienic purposes by means of, including, but not limited
to, rubbing, pressuring, acupressuring, kneading, tapping, pounding, vibrating
or stimulating with the hands, feet, elbows or any other part of the body, with
or without the aid of any instrument or device and with or without such
supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniment, antiseptic, oil, powder,
cream, lotion, ointment or other similar preparations commonly used in this
practice, under such circumstances that it is reasonably expected that the
person to whom the treatment is provided or some third person on their behalf
will pay money or give any other consideration or any gratuity therefor.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. A fixed location where massage services are performed
for compensation.
   MASSAGIST or MASSAGE TECHNICIAN. Any massage practitioner or massage
therapist who administers to another person, for any form of compensation, a
massage or other similar procedure.
   OWNER. Any person who has an ownership interest in a massage establishment,
including officers, directors, members, partners, principals and each
shareholder or interest holder holding more than 5% of the stock.
   PERSON. Any individual, sole proprietorship, firm, partnership, corporation,
association or any combination of individuals of whatever form or character.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of any bare human genitals,
pubic area, buttocks, anus or female breast;
      (2)   Human sex acts, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral
copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Human masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (4)   The actual or simulated infliction of pain by one human upon
another or by an individual upon themself, for the purpose of the sexual
gratification or release of either individual, as a result of flagellation,
beating, striking or touching of an erogenous zone, including, without
limitation, the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic area or, if such person is a
female, a breast;
      (5)   Sex acts, actual or simulated, between a human being and an animal,
including, but not limited to, intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy; or
      (6)   Excretory or urinary functions as part of, or in connection with,
any of the activities set forth in divisions (1) through (5) above.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following human anatomical areas:
genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point
immediately above the top of the areola.
§ 5-3-2 MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   License required. Any massage establishment seeking to operate within
the city must first apply for and be issued a license for the massage
establishment by the city. It is unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct
or carry on any massage establishment or massage within the city without said
license from the city.
   (B)   Exemptions. The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Treatment administered in good faith in the course of practice of
any healing art or profession by any person licensed to practice any such art
or profession under the California Business and Professions Code, or any other
law of this state, including physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths,
podiatrists and physical therapists;
      (2)   Nurses registered under the laws of the state while performing
activities encompassed by such professional licenses;
      (3)   Barbers, estheticians and beauticians who are duly licensed under
the laws of the state while engaging in practices within the scope of their
licenses;
      (4)   Hospitals, nursing homes, sanatoriums or other health facilities
duly licensed by the state;
      (5)   Coaches and trainers in accredited high schools, junior colleges
and colleges or universities acting within the scope of their employment;
      (6)   Trainers of amateur, semi-professional or professional athletes or
athletic teams so long as such persons do not practice massage therapy as their
primary occupation at any location where they provide such services in the
city; or
      (7)   Any profession over which the state has assumed exclusive
jurisdiction as a matter of statewide concern and which gives the services or
treatments included in the term “massage”, as herein defined, as incidents to
such business, calling or profession.
§ 5-3-3 RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   The requirements of this section are in addition to the other provisions of
this subchapter, the zoning code and any other conditions imposed by the city.
   (A)   Employees. It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that
each and every person who performs massage on the premises holds a CAMTC
license issued by the state. Nothing contained herein shall relieve the
licensee of the responsibility of ascertaining, prior to employment, whether
said person has an active, unrevoked massage technician’s license from CAMTC.
   (B)   Name of business. No licensee licensed under this subchapter may
operate under any name or conduct the business under any designation not
specified in the license.
   (C)   Permits not assignable. No license may be sold, transferred or
assigned by the licensee, or by operation of law, to any other person or
persons. Any such sale, transfer or assignment, or attempted sale, transfer or
assignment, shall be deemed to constitute a voluntary surrender of such license
and such license shall thereafter be deemed terminated and void; provided and
excepting, however, that if the licensee is a partnership and one or more of
the partners should withdraw, one or more of the remaining partners may
acquire, by purchase or otherwise, the interest of the partner or partners who
withdrew without effecting a surrender or termination of such license and in
each case the licensee shall thereafter be deemed to be the surviving partner
(s).
   (D)   Vested rights. No license granted herein shall confer any vested right
to any person or business for more than the license period. All massage
operators, managers and technicians subject to this subchapter shall comply
with the provisions of this subchapter as they may be amended hereafter.
   (E)   Sale or transfer of license. Upon the sale or transfer of any interest
in a massage establishment or any entity owning such massage establishment, the
license issued pursuant to this municipal code shall be null and void unless
the sale or transaction is to an applicant shown on the application for the
license pursuant to which the establishment was operated. A new application
shall be made by any person desiring to own or operate such massage
establishment.
   (F)   Licensee responsibility. It is the responsibility of a licensee to
ensure that a massage establishment complies with all applicable state and
locals laws, and any regulations promulgated thereunder, at all times. In
construing and enforcing this subchapter and any regulations promulgated under
this subchapter, the act, omission or failure of an agent, officer,
representative or other person acting for or employed by a licensee, within the
scope of their employment or office, shall, in every case, be deemed the act,
omission or failure of the licensee.
§ 5-3-4 MASSAGE REGULATIONS.
   All massage establishments and massage technicians in the city must operate
in conformance with the following regulations.
   (A)   CAMTC license requirement. It is unlawful for any person to perform,
practice or administer a massage within the city without first obtaining a
certificate issued by the California Massage Therapy Council pursuant to
California Business and Professions Code, §§ 4600 et seq., or successor
provision or provisions. No licensee shall employ any person as a massagist or
in a massage establishment in that capacity who does not have a current and
valid certificate issued by CAMTC pursuant to California Business and
Professions Code, §§ 4600 et seq., or successor provision or provisions, or
whose certificate is not in good standing.
   (B)   Management of massage establishments. A licensee must have the
premises supervised at all times when open for business by the operator or a
designated manager. A person designated as the responsible operator or manager
shall be on the premises at all times of operation and must be registered with
the city by the owner to receive all complaints and citations. The appointment
of an operator or manager in charge must be in writing with the operator or
manager in charge acknowledging this appointment.
   (C)   Employee register. The massage establishment must maintain a register
of all people employed as a massage technician by the establishment. The
register shall be maintained on the premises for a minimum period of two years
after massage technicians cease their employment. The register must be updated
when a massage technician is added or discontinues services at the
establishment. The register shall also be made available for inspection by
representatives of the city at any time during the establishment’s business
hours. The register must include the following information:
      (1)   The proper name of each massage technician, including their first,
middle and last names;
      (2)   Any nicknames, pseudonyms or aliases used by each massage
technician;
      (3)   Each massage technician’s current residence address and relevant
phone numbers;
      (4)   The age, date of birth, gender, height, weight, color of hair and
eyes of each massage technician;
      (5)   All information contained in a massage technician’s massage
certificate, including certificate number, date of issuance and expiration
date; and
      (6)   The date of hire and, if applicable, termination.
   (D)   Facility requirements. All massage establishments must comply with the
following facilities requirements and any other conditions specified by the
city.
      (1)   A recognizable and readable sign shall be posted at the main
entrance identifying the establishment as a massage establishment; provided
that all such signs shall comply with the sign requirements of the city. The
massage establishment license and the massage certificates for each massage
technician shall be displayed in an open and conspicuous place readily visible,
such as in the lobby of the massage establishment.
      (2)   If shower facilities are provided, an enclosed changing area,
directly adjacent to the shower, shall be provided. The changing area shall be
designed to allow the patron utilizing the shower facility to exit the shower,
and enter the changing area, without being exposed or visible to any other area
of the massage establishment. A private changing area shall be provided for
each shower facility provided. The minimum dimension of the changing area shall
be 25 square feet and meet ADA standards.
      (3)   A minimum of one separate washbasin shall be provided in each
massage establishment for the use of employees of any such establishment. Said
basin shall provide soap or detergent and hot and cold running water at all
times, and shall be located within or as close as practicable to the area
devoted to the performing of massage services. In addition, there shall be
provided at each washbasin sanitary towels placed in permanently installed
dispensers.
      (4)   The storefront windows of the massage establishment shall be
transparent to provide clear visibility into the unit, and the windows shall
not be obscured by curtains, blinds or other temporary devices during operating
hours; however, if the storefront windows are for a room where massage will
occur this requirement shall not apply.
      (5)   (a)   If an establishment is proposing the use of table showers in
the facility, the entire massage room where the table shower is located shall
be designed and built as a shower facility.
         (b)   The floor and walls shall be designed and built to be waterproof
per California Building Code requirements.
      (6)   The room shall drain properly per the California Building Code.
   (E)   Operational requirements. All massage establishments must comply with
the following operating requirements and any other conditions specified by the
city.
      (1)   It is unlawful and prohibited for any owner, operator, responsible
managing employee, manager, licensee, employee or independent contractor expose
any of their specified anatomical areas to another person at the massage
establishment.
      (2)   In no circumstance may any specified sexual activities take place
at any time at the massage establishment; nor may any massage technician or
employee make intentional physical contact with the specified anatomical areas
of any client, patron, customer or guest.
      (3)   No person may live inside the massage establishment at any time.
There shall be no beds located in areas not designated specifically as massage
rooms.
      (4)   No massage establishment employing a massage technician shall be
equipped with tinted or one-way glass in any room or office.
      (5)   There shall be no display, storage or use of any instruments,
devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use in connection with
specified sexual activities, including, but not limited to, vibrators, dildos
or condoms, or any goods or items which are replicas of, or which simulate,
specified anatomical areas, or pornographic magazines, videos or other
material.
      (6)   Each service offered, the price thereof and the minimum length of
time such service shall be performed shall be posted in a conspicuous public
location in each massage business or establishment. All letters and numbers
shall be capitals not less than one inch in height. No services shall be
performed and no sums shall be charged for services other than those posted.
This posting requirement shall not apply to exempt physicians and/or surgeons
who employ or retain non-exempt persons to perform massage therapy as part of
licensed medical activities. All arrangements for services to be performed
shall be made in a room that is not used for massage therapy.
      (7)   Alcoholic beverages may not be sold, served, furnished, kept,
consumed, imbibed or possessed on the premises without a conditional use permit
approved in compliance with Title 9, Chapter 1, Subchapter 2, Article 11 and
any applicable California Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control licenses.
      (8)   Hours of operation shall be limited to the hours of 7:00 a.m. to
10:00 p.m. daily. The hours of operation shall be clearly displayed within a
common area of the facility, or may be displayed as a form of window signage in
compliance with Title 9, Chapter 1, Subchapter 2, Article 7.
       (9)   The owner or operator of each massage establishment shall display
the massage establishment license issued to the establishment and the CAMTC
license issued to each massage technician employed in the establishment in an
accessible and conspicuous place on the premises. CAMTC certified massage
practitioners shall have their original state certification at their place of
business and their identification card in their possession while providing
massage services.
      (10)   No massage services shall be provided to a patron that results in
intentional contact, or occasional repetitive contact, with specified
anatomical areas.
      (11)   No person shall give, or assist in giving, any massage or other
body treatment to any other person under the age of 18 years, unless the parent
or guardian of the minor person has consented thereto in writing.
   (F)   Attire requirements. All employees, including massage technicians,
must, at all times while on the business premises, wear clean clothing that is
not transparent, see-through or that substantially exposes undergarments,
breasts, buttocks or genitals.
   (G)   Illegal activity. Massage establishments are prohibited from operating
in the same location where illegal activity previously occurred.
   (H)   Proximity to other establishments. Massage establishments are
prohibited from operating within 500 feet of another massage establishment.
§ 5-3-5 AUTHORITY TO ADMINISTER AND ENFORCE SUBCHAPTER.
   The issuing officer has the authority to administer and enforce this
subchapter. The issuing officer may adopt supplemental regulations or policies
to implement and interpret this subchapter.
§ 5-3-6 INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations. It is unlawful and declared a public nuisance for any
person to operate, conduct or maintain a massage establishment contrary to the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   State law. This subchapter is intended to supplement state law. In the
event of a conflict between this subchapter and state law, the city shall give
effect to state law.
   (C)   Interference with inspection. It is unlawful for any person having
responsibility over the operation of a massage establishment to impede,
obstruct, interfere with or otherwise not to allow the city to conduct an
inspection and review or copy records, recordings or other documents required
to be maintained by a massage establishment under this subchapter or under
state law. Failure to cooperate with or refuse an inspection is subject to
suspension, revocation or nonrenewal of a license. It is also unlawful for a
person to conceal, destroy, deface, damage or falsify any records, recordings
or other documents required to be maintained by a massage establishment under
this subchapter.
   (D)   Criminal penalties. Any person who violates any provision of this
subchapter is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with in Title 1,
Chapter 1; except the City Attorney, in their discretion, may prosecute a
violation of this subchapter as an infraction subject to the penalties in Title
1, Chapter 1.
   (E)   Administrative citations. Administrative citations may be issued for
violations of the provisions of this subchapter, as set forth in Title 1,
Chapter 3, Subchapter 2.
   (F)   Civil or equitable enforcement. The City Attorney may bring a civil or
equitable action to seek the abatement of any violation of this subchapter.
   (G)   Aiding, abetting and omissions. Whenever in this subchapter any act or
omission is made unlawful, it shall include causing, permitting, aiding,
abetting, suffering or concealing the fact of such act or omission.
   (H)   Ongoing violations. Each and every day a violation is maintained,
caused, aided, abetted, concealed, suffered or permitted is a separate offense.
   (I)   Remedies cumulative. The remedies, procedures and penalties provided
by this subchapter are cumulative to each other and to any other available
under city, state or federal law.
§ 5-3-7 APPLICATION REVIEW AND DECISION.
   (A)   On-site inspection. An application for a massage establishment license
may require the review authority to perform an on-site inspection of the
subject premises before confirming that the request complies with all the
applicable criteria set forth in this subchapter, §
5-3-4 and any other related code or policies.
   (B)   Findings for license issuance. The issuing officer may approve a
massage establishment license only if they find that the applicant fulfills the
requirements as set forth in this subchapter.
   (C)   Grounds for denial. After the completion of the city’s application
review, the issuing officer may, in addition to the grounds of denial set forth
in §
5-2-5, deny the issuance a massage establishment license if any of the
following findings are made:
      (1)   The requirements of this subchapter have not been satisfied,
including if the applicant failed to submit a complete application, failed to
submit any supplemental information or documentation upon request or failed to
pay the requisite application fee;
      (2)   The applicant or any owner has had any massage, business or
professional license or permit denied, suspended or revoked by any agency,
board, city, county, territory or state;
      (3)   The applicant has made a false, misleading or fraudulent statement
or omission of fact to the city in the application, or in the license
application process;
      (4)   The applicant or any owner has been convicted of an offense
specified in the California Government Code, § 51032 or has engaged in
disqualifying conduct;
      (5)   The massage establishment does not employ or use only state
certified massage practitioners and therapists whose certifications are valid
and that owners of the state certificates are the same persons to whom CAMTC
issued valid and current identification cards;
      (6)   The massage establishment as proposed by the applicant would not
comply with all applicable laws, including, but not limited to, health, zoning,
fire and safety requirements and standards; or
      (7)   The applicant is a natural person under 18 years of age.
   (D)   Decision. If the issuing officer determines that an applicant does not
fulfill the requirements as set forth in this subchapter, the issuing officer
must deny the application. The issuing officer may issue the license with
conditions. The issuing officer must serve the applicant with a written
decision stating whether the application is approved, conditionally approved or
denied within 90 calendar days of the filing of the completed application. The
foregoing 90-day deadline is precatory only; failure to meet this deadline does
not affect the power of the issuing officer to act on the application. The
notice must state the reasons for the denial, the right of the applicant to
contest the decision and that issuing officer’s decision may be contested in
compliance with Title 5, Chapter 2.
   (E)   Right to contest decision. An applicant may contest the issuing
officer’s decision denying an application for a massage establishment license
in accordance with the timelines and procedures set forth in Title 5, Chapter
2. The issuing officer’s decision is final if no written request for a hearing
is timely submitted to and received by the city.
   (F)   Limit on reapplication. If the issuing officer denies the application,
a new application may not be submitted for a period of one year.
§ 5-3-8 GROUNDS FOR SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The issuing officer may suspend or revoke any license issued under
this subchapter in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The issuing officer makes any findings necessary to deny a license
under §§
5-2-5 or
5-3-7;
      (2)   The licensee failed to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter or any regulations adopted pursuant to this subchapter; any term or
condition imposed on the license; California Business and Professions Code, §§
4600 et seq.; or any law of the state regulating massage establishments or
massage technicians;
      (3)   The licensee employs or uses one or more non-CAMTC certified
massage practitioners or massage therapists to perform massage services; or
      (4)   The licensee has engaged in disqualifying conduct.
   (B)   Contesting decision. The licensee may contest the issuing officer’s
decision denying an application, or suspending, or revoking a license, in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Title 5, Chapter 2.
   (C)   Limit on reapplication after revocation. If the issuing officer
revokes a license, a new application may not be submitted for a period of one
year.
§§ 5-3-9—5-3-14 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. RESERVED ****
§§ 5-3-15—5-3-41 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. RESERVED ****
§§ 5-3-42—5-3-53 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. RESERVED ****
§§ 5-3-54—5-3-69 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 5. RESERVED ****
§§ 5-3-70—5-3-80 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2022-215, § 13, adopted 6-7-2022, repealed Subchapter 5, § 5-3-70,
which pertained to hog ranches and derived from Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-
1990.
**** SUBCHAPTER 6. RESERVED ****
§§ 5-3-81—5-3-93 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 7. RESERVED ****
§§ 5-3-94—5-3-104 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 8. SECONDHAND DEALERS, PAWNBROKERS AND COIN-CURRENCY DEALERS
****
§ 5-3-105 REPORT OF ACQUIRED PROPERTY; IDENTIFICATION OF SELLER.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, junk dealer and coin-currency
dealer shall report all personal property which they have purchased, taken in
trade, taken in pawn or accepted for auctioning to the Chief of Police not
later than 12:00 p.m. of the day following the acquisition of such property.
   (B)   Every person, or the agent, employee or representative of such person,
who buys, sells, holds or receives in pledge any used or secondhand
merchandise, junk, metals, precious metals, antiques or any personal property
shall obtain evidence of the identity of the seller, including, but not limited
to, such person’s full name, signature, address, telephone number and driver’s
license number, and ascertain that the person selling or delivering the
property has a legal right to sell, dispose of or pledge the property. The
burden shall be upon the purchaser of the property to show that, before buying,
receiving or otherwise obtaining such property, they made reasonable inquiry as
to its ownership.
   (C)   The following property is excepted from the report requirements of
this section:
      (1)   Property acquired in good faith in a transaction involving the
stock in trade of another pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or coin-currency dealer
who previously has made the report required by this section of such property
included in the transaction and who states in writing that the report so
required has been made; provided the acquiring party submits a copy of such
statement to the Chief of Police. Each of the pawnbrokers, secondhand dealers
or coin-currency dealers involved in the transaction shall retain a copy of the
statement for a period of three years, and it shall be available for inspection
by any law enforcement officer;
      (2)   Property acquired in a nonjudicial sale, transfer, assignment,
assignment for the benefit of creditors or consignment of the assets or stock
in trade, in bulk or a substantial part thereof, or an industrial or commercial
enterprise for purposes of voluntary dissolution or liquidation of the seller’s
business, or for the purpose of disposing of an excessive quantity of personal
property, or which has been acquired in a nonjudicial sale or transfer from an
owner of their entire household of personal property, or a substantial part
thereof; provided the pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or coin-currency dealer
retains in their place of business for a period of three years a copy of the
bill of sale, receipt, inventory list or other transfer document, which shall
be available for inspection by any law enforcement officer; and provided,
further, that the pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or coin-currency dealer
notifies the Chief of Police within ten days after such acquisition that
exemption from reporting is being claimed under this section. The terms
INDUSTRIAL OR COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISE and OWNER, as used in this division (C)(2),
do not include a pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or coin-currency dealer;
      (3)   Property acquired in a sale made by any trustee in bankruptcy,
executor, administrator, receiver or public official acting pursuant to law, or
which has been acquired in a sale made pursuant to the liquidation of any lien
in the manner authorized by law;
      (4)   Property acquired in good faith as part or complete payment for
other personal property by a person whose principal business is primarily that
of selling or trading personal property directly to the consumer; provided,
however, that in such transaction, no consideration other than stock in trade
shall pass from the business enterprise to the person trading or exchanging the
used item;
      (5)   Property acquired directly from a governmental body or agency by
purchase;
      (6)   Property otherwise previously reported by a pawnbroker, secondhand
dealer or coin-currency dealer to any federal, state or local governmental
officer or agency by the authority of any other law as an acquisition or a
purchase, or which has been reported as destroyed or otherwise disposed of; and
      (7)   Property acquired as a gift by a donee for charitable or
eleemosynary purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-105) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-106 REPORT FORMS; RECORDS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall prepare and provide, without charge, forms
to persons required to make reports pursuant to this subchapter. Such forms
shall require such information as the Chief of Police may deem necessary to
identify the parties to each reportable transaction, the property which is the
subject thereof and other details of the transaction which may aid them in law
enforcement.
   (B)   Every pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or coin-currency dealer shall keep
a complete record of all personal property pledged to, purchased, received or
sold by them, which record shall contain all the matters required to be shown
in the reports referred to in this section. Every such record shall be open, at
all times, during business hours to the inspection of any law enforcement
officer. All reports and records required by the terms of this subchapter shall
be written or printed in the English language in a clear and legible manner.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-106) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-107 RETENTION OF PROPERTY; INSPECTION OF PROPERTY.
   Every pawnbroker, secondhand dealer and coin-currency dealer shall retain in
their possession for a period of 30 days all personal property reported under
the provisions of this subchapter. The 30-day holding period, with respect to
such personal property, shall commence with the date the report of its
acquisition is made to the Chief of Police by the pawnbroker, secondhand dealer
or coin currency dealer. At the written direction of any law enforcement
officer, a pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or coin-currency dealer shall hold
property which the officer has reason to believe is stolen for a period not to
exceed 90 days from the date of placing such hold. Such property may be
released at any time, but only upon written authorization of the Chief of
Police. Such property shall be available, at all times, during business hours
for inspection by any law enforcement officer. Each day, all articles which
were acquired or accepted the preceding day shall be displayed for inspection.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-107) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-108 ACCEPTANCE OF PROPERTY FROM MINORS.
   No pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or coin-currency dealer shall buy, trade,
accept on consignment or for auction, or loan money for property from any
person under 18 years of age unless such person is accompanied by a parent,
guardian or other person having legal custody of that minor. The broker or
dealer must obtain written permission from the parent, guardian or other person
having custody of the minor before the broker or dealer may buy, trade, accept
for consignment or auction or loan money for property from such minor. The
written permission shall be included with the report which is required under §
5-3-106. The written permission shall include a statement that the minor is the
owner of or has been duly authorized by the owner of the property to dispose of
or pawn it, and it shall be executed either as an affidavit or as a declaration
under penalty of perjury.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-108) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 5-3-109—5-3-115 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 9. RESERVED ****
§§ 5-3-116—5-3-127 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 10. PEDDLERS, BUSINESS SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS ****
§ 5-3-128 MISREPRESENTATION IN MAKING SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, food peddler, business solicitor or
canvasser to make or perpetrate any misstatements, deceptions or fraud in
connection with any sale or solicitation for orders or subscriptions.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-128) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 5-3-129—5-3-138 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 11. SOLICITATION AND SALES ON OR NEAR STREETS OR HIGHWAYS ****
§ 5-3-139 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   Ord 2020-207, § 4, adopted 8-4-2020, repealed § 5-3-139, which pertained to
soliciting business and derived from Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990.
§ 5-3-140 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2020-207, § 4, adopted 8-4-2020, repealed § 5-3-140, which pertained to
conducting business on right-of-way and derived from Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-
6-1990.
§§ 5-3-141—5-3-150 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 12. RESERVED ****
§§ 5-3-151—5-3-168 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 13. RESERVED ****
§§ 5-3-169—5-3-184 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 14. RESERVED ****
§§ 5-3-185—5-3-196 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 15. PROHIBITION ON FLAVORED ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE PRODUCTS ****
§ 5-3-197 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATED PRODUCT. A product intended for use with an electronic cigarette,
including, but not limited to, flavor refills, cartridges and component parts,
whether or not the product contains nicotine.
   CHARACTERIZING FLAVOR. A taste or aroma, other than the taste or aroma of
tobacco, imparted either prior to or during consumption of an electronic
cigarette product or any byproduct produced by the electronic cigarette
product, including, but not limited to, tastes or aromas relating to menthol,
mint, wintergreen, fruit, chocolate, vanilla, honey, candy, cocoa, dessert,
alcoholic beverage, herb or spice; provided, however, that an electronic
cigarette product shall not be determined to have a CHARACTERIZING FLAVOR
solely because of the use of additives or the provision of ingredient
information.
   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE. Any electronic and/or battery-operated device or
delivery system sold in combination with nicotine or other substances, in
aerosolized or vaporized form, including, but not limited to, an e-cigarette,
e-cigar, e-pipe, vape pen or e-hookah. ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES include any
component, part or accessory of such a device that is used during the operation
of the device when sold in combination with any liquid or substance containing
nicotine. ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES also include any liquid or substance containing
nicotine, whether sold separately or sold in combination with any device that
could be used to deliver to a person nicotine in aerosolized or vaporized form.
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES do not include any battery, battery charger, carrying
case or other accessory not used in the operation of the device if sold
separately. ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES shall not include any drug, device or
combination product that has been approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product or for other therapeutic
purposes where that product is marketed and sold solely for such approved use.
   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE PARAPHERNALIA. Any item designed or marketed for the
consumption, use or preparation of electronic cigarette products.
   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE PRODUCT. Includes:
      (1)   Any electronic cigarette; and
      (2)   Any associated product, component, part or accessory intended or
reasonably expected to be used with an electronic cigarette, whether or not
sold separately.
   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE RETAILER. Any person who sells, offers for sale or does
or offers to exchange for any form of consideration, electronic cigarettes,
electronic cigarette products or electronic cigarette paraphernalia. ELECTRONIC
CIGARETTE RETAILING shall mean the doing of any of these things. This
definition is without regard to the quantity of electronic cigarette products
or electronic cigarette paraphernalia sold, offered for sale, exchanged or
offered for exchange.
   FLAVORED ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE PRODUCT. Any electronic cigarette product that
imparts a characterizing flavor. There shall be a rebuttable presumption that
an electronic cigarette product is a FLAVORED ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE PRODUCT if
an electronic cigarette retailer, manufacturer or any employee or agent of an
electronic cigarette retailer or manufacturer has made a statement or claim
directed to consumers or to the public that the electronic cigarette product
has or produces a characterizing flavor, including, but not limited to, text,
color and/or images on the product’s labeling or packaging that are used to
explicitly or implicitly communicate that the electronic cigarette product has
a characterizing flavor.
   LABELING. Written, printed or graphic matter upon any electronic cigarette
product or any of its packaging, or accompanying such electronic cigarette
product.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person, including, but not limited to, any repacker or
relabeler, who manufactures, fabricates, assembles, processes or labels an
electronic cigarette product; or imports a finished electronic cigarette
product for sale or distribution into the United States.
   NICOTINE. The chemical substance named 3-(1-Methyl-2-pyrrolidinyl) pyridine
or C[10]H[14]N[2], including any salt or complex of nicotine, whether derived
from tobacco or from any other source.
   PACKAGING. A pack, box, carton or container of any kind or, if no other
container, any wrapping (including cellophane) in which an electronic cigarette
product is sold or offered for sale to a consumer.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, cooperative association,
corporation, personal representative, receiver, trustee, assignee or any other
legal entity.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-197) (Ord. 2019-199, § 3, passed 11-19-2019)
§ 5-3-198 SALE OR OFFER FOR SALE OF FLAVORED ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE PRODUCTS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any electronic
cigarette retailer or any of the electronic cigarette retailer’s agents or
employees to sell, or offer for sale, any flavored electronic cigarette
product.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any electronic
cigarette retailer to possess with intent to sell, or offer for sale, any
flavored electronic cigarette product. There shall be a rebuttable presumption
that an electronic cigarette retailer in possession of four or more flavored
electronic cigarette products, including, but not limited to, individual
flavored electronic cigarette products, packages of flavored electronic
cigarette products or any combination thereof, possesses such flavored
electronic cigarette products with intent to sell or offer for sale.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-198) (Ord. 2019-199, § 3, passed 11-19-2019)
§ 5-3-199 ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   The City Manager, or their designee, may enforce this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this subchapter is guilty of
a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of $1,000.00, or imprisonment for a term of
six months, or both; provided that where the City Attorney determines that such
action may be in the best interests of justice, the City Attorney may specify
in the accusatory pleadings that the offense shall be an infraction. Each
violation of this subchapter, and each day during which any such violation is
committed or continued, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any violation of this subchapter is a public nuisance. In addition to
the penalties provided in this section, any use or condition caused or
permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter
shall be and is declared to be a public nuisance, and may be abated as such by
the city.
   (D)   In addition to other remedies set forth in this section, the city may
issue an administrative citation for any violation of this subchapter, as set
forth in Title 1, Chapter 3, Subchapter 2.
   (E)   This section shall not be interpreted to limit the applicable civil or
administrative remedies available under law. The remedies set forth in this
section are hereby declared to be cumulative and non-exclusive.
   (F)   The City Manager, or their designee, may adopt administrative rules,
regulations or guidelines for the implementation and enforcement of this
subchapter.
   (G)   For 30 days from the effective date of this section, the exclusive
remedy of the city for a violation of this subchapter shall be the issuance of
an administrative citation as provided in division (D) above. Such citations
issued during this 30-day period shall be without the imposition of a fine or
penalty, or an appeal fee, until the person cited has exhausted all of their
administrative remedies therefor contained in Title 1, Chapter 3, Subchapter 2,
and thereafter, such fine and appeal fees shall become due and payable.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-199) (Ord. 2019-199, § 3, passed 11-19-2019)
§ 5-3-200 NO PREEMPTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be interpreted or applied so as to create
any requirement, power or duty that is preempted by federal or state law.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-200) (Ord. 2019-199, § 3, passed 11-19-2019)
§§ 5-3-201—5-3-239 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 16. RETAIL SALE OF CONCEALABLE FIREARMS ****
§ 5-3-240 LICENSING AUTHORITY.
   The issuing officer is hereby designated as the licensing authority for the
city and is authorized to issue licenses, pursuant to California Penal Code, §§
26700 et seq., as such article exists or may be amended from time to time, for
the sale at retail of pistols, revolvers and other firearms capable of being
concealed upon the person.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-240) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 5-3-241—5-3-259 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 17. PROHIBITION ON SALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF KRATOM PRODUCTS ****
§ 5-3-260 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the city’s plenary police powers to
protect public safety, health and welfare. The express purpose of this
subchapter is to protect public health and safety by regulating access to
kratom products containing more than 2% of 7-hydroxymitragynine in the alkaloid
fraction.
(Ord. 2025-236, passed 10-21-2025)
§ 5-3-261 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   7-OH PRODUCT. A product containing 7-hydroxymitragynine.
   ATTRACTIVE TO CHILDREN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Use of images that are attractive to children, including, but not
limited to, images of any of the following, except as part of required health
warnings:
         (a)   Cartoons, toys or robots;
         (b)   Any real or fictional humans;
         (c)   Fictional animals or creatures; and
         (d)   Fruits or vegetables, except when used to accurately describe
ingredients or flavors contained in a product.
      (2)   Likeness to images, characters or phrases that are popularly used
to advertise to children;
      (3)   Imitation of candy packaging or labeling, or other packaging and
labeling of cereals, sweets, chips or other food products typically marketed to
children;
      (4)   The terms “candy” or “candies” or variants in spelling, such as
“kandy” or “kandee”;
      (5)   Brand names or close imitations of brand names of candies, cereals,
sweets, chips or other food products typically marketed to children;
      (6)   Any other image or packaging that is easily confused with
commercially available foods that do not contain kratom and are typically
marketed to children; and
      (7)   Any other packaging used that is attractive to children,
considering all relevant facts and circumstances.
   KRATOM LEAF. The leaf of the kratom plant, also known as mitragyna speciosa,
any form.
   KRATOM LEAF EXTRACT. The material obtained by extraction of kratom leaves by
any means.
   KRATOM PRODUCT. A product consisting of kratom leaf, kratom leaf extract or
both.
   TOTAL KRATOM ALKALOIDS. The sum of mitragynine, speciociliatine,
speciogynine, paynantheine and 7-hydroxymitragynine in a kratom product.
(Ord. 2025-236, passed 10-21-2025)
§ 5-3-262 PROHIBITION ON SALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF KRATOM AND 7-OH PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise authorized by law, an individual, business or
other entity shall not sell, attempt to sell, offer, provide or distribute a
kratom product or 7-OH product to a person under 21 years of age.
   (B)   Except as otherwise authorized by law, an individual, business or
other entity shall not sell, attempt to sell, offer, provide or distribute a
kratom product or 7-OH product with a level of 7-hydroxymitragynine that is
greater than 2% of the total kratom alkaloids in the product.
   (C)   Except as otherwise authorized by law, an individual, business or
other entity shall not sell, attempt to sell, offer, provide or distribute a
kratom product or 7-OH product that is attractive to children.
   (D)   Any individual, business or other entity that sells, attempts to sell,
offers, provides or distributes a kratom product or 7-OH product shall conduct
age verification to ensure compliance with division (A) above.
(Ord. 2025-236, passed 10-21-2025)
§ 5-3-263 PACKAGING OF KRATOM AND 7-OH PRODUCTS.
   Packaging of a kratom product or a 7-OH product offered for retail sale
shall be child-resistant for the life of the product. Both of the following
packages are considered child-resistant for the purposes of this section:
   (A)   A package that has been certified as child-resistant under the
requirements of the Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. §§ 1471
et seq.) and any regulations promulgated pursuant to that act; and
   (B)   Plastic packaging that is at least four mils thick and heat sealed
without an easy-open tab, dimple, corner or flap; provided that the package
maintains its child-resistance throughout the life of the product.
(Ord. 2025-236, passed 10-21-2025)
§ 5-3-264 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates §
5-3-262 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may be
punished by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the county
jail for a period of not more than six months or by both such fine and
imprisonment. This section shall not serve to limit any other legal remedies or
actions that the city may have to address violations of §
5-3-262.
(Ord. 2025-236, passed 10-21-2025)
§§ 5-3-265—5-3-270 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 18. BINGO GAMES ****
§ 5-3-271 APPLICATION TO CONDUCT GAMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct, manage or carry
on a bingo game within the city without first having obtained a license
therefor in accordance with this title and complying with the requirements set
forth in Title 11, Chapter 10, Subchapter 2.
§§ 5-3-272—5-3-290 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 19. MODEL STUDIOS, DANCE STUDIOS ****
§ 5-3-291 EMPLOYMENT OF UNLICENSED FIGURE MODELS, DANCE INSTRUCTORS.
   No licensee or operator of a figure model studio or dance studio shall
employ or utilize the services in any way of a figure model or dance instructor
who does not possess a valid and subsisting license.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-291) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-292 DISROBING BY PATRONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No figure model studio or dance studio shall permit any person other
than a licensed figure model or dance instructor to disrobe or to be disrobed
so as to be nude while at the model studio.
   (B)   An easily recognizable and readable sign shall be posted in a
conspicuous place near the main entrance of the establishment stating, “Patrons
Are Prohibited From Disrobing On The Premises”. This notice shall be in English
and Spanish.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-292) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-293 LIGHTING.
   Minimum lighting shall be provided at a figure model studio or dance studio
in accordance with the adopted 2025 California Building Code and related codes,
as adopted by Title 8, Chapter 1, Subchapter 2, and, in addition, at least one
artificial light of not less than 40 watts shall be provided in each enclosed
room or area where the activities of figure modeling or dance instruction take
place, and shall be lit during normal business hours when persons are present.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-293) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Applicable related codes, see § 8-1-12
§ 5-3-294 HOURS.
   No person shall conduct or operate a figure model studio or dance studio
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of the following day.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-294) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 5-3-295—5-3-300 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 20. PROHIBITION ON THE SALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF NITROUS OXIDE
****
§ 5-3-301 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the city’s plenary police powers to
protect the public safety, health and welfare. The express purpose of this
subchapter is to protect the public health and safety by eliminating retail
access for recreational use of nitrous oxide, a dangerous gas that is illicitly
used as an intoxicant.
(Ord. 2025-236, passed 10-21-2025)
§ 5-3-302 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVICE. Any cartridge, compressed gas cylinder, apparatus, container,
balloon, attachment, nozzle or other object used to contain, dispense or
administer nitrous oxide.
   NITROUS OXIDE. The colorless, nonflammable gas sometimes identified as N20,
which is sometimes used in aerosols and sometimes used as an anesthetic, and
which, when inhaled, produces loss of sensibility to pain, often preceded by
exhilaration and laughter, and often used as an anesthetic in dentistry.
NITROUS OXIDE is often informally or colloquially referred to as “laughing
gas”, “NOX”, “galaxy gas”, “whippits”, amongst others.
   PERSON. Any individual or legal entity, however constituted or organized.
   WHOLESALE CAPACITY. Sale of or distribution of nitrous oxide or a device to
dispense nitrous oxide to a person that will use nitrous oxide or the device in
service or products for resale. Examples include, but are not limited to,
commercial sale of dentistry supplies to dentists or dentistry offices,
commercial sale of devices for the use in food production or in a commercial
kitchen and/or commercial sale of nitrous oxide for the purpose of producing
food products for commercial sale (e.g., whipped cream canisters).
(Ord. 2025-236, passed 10-21-2025)
§ 5-3-303 PROHIBITION ON SALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF NITROUS OXIDE.
   Except as otherwise authorized by law or allowed under this subchapter, it
is unlawful for any person to sell, attempt to sell, offer, distribute or
otherwise provide to any person nitrous oxide, a device to dispense or
administer nitrous oxide or any device that contains any quantity of nitrous
oxide.
(Ord. 2025-236, passed 10-21-2025)
§ 5-3-304 EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITION.
   This subchapter does not apply to the sale, attempt to sell, distribution or
other manner of providing nitrous oxide, or a device containing nitrous oxide,
in the following circumstances:
   (A)   If the nitrous oxide is contained in a food product for use as a
propellant;
   (B)   If the nitrous oxide or device is being sold, attempted to be sold,
offered or distributed in a wholesale capacity, for uses similar to those
described in §
5-3-302. This exemption only applies if the wholesaler does not know or have
reason to know that the recipient intends to use the nitrous oxide or device in
violation of §
5-3-303;
   (C)   If the nitrous oxide or device that is being sold, attempted to be
sold, offered or distributed is specifically designed for use in a vehicle to
enhance the performance of the vehicle;
   (D)   If the nitrous oxide is being sold, attempted to be sold, offered or
distributed specifically for the purpose of providing medical or dental care,
by or at the direction and under the supervision of, a medical or dental
practitioner licensed by the state and in accordance with all applicable rules
and regulations;
   (E)   If the nitrous oxide or device is being sold, attempted to be sold,
offered, distributed or dispensed by a pharmacist, pharmacist intern or
pharmacy as defined by California Business and Professions Code, §§ 4030, 4036
and 4037, as may be amended, in the course of their duties as a pharmacist or
pharmacist intern, or wholesalers licensed by the Board of Pharmacy; or
   (F)   Any other circumstances exempted under law.
(Ord. 2025-236, passed 10-21-2025)
§ 5-3-305 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates §
5-3-303 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may be
punished by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the county
jail for a period of not more than six months or by both such fine and
imprisonment. This section shall not serve to limit any other legal remedies or
actions that the city may have to address violations of §
5-3-303.
(Ord. 2025-236, passed 10-21-2025)
**** SUBCHAPTERS 21. RESERVED ****
§§ 5-3-306—5-3-320 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 22. ESCORTS, ESCORT BUREAUS AND INTRODUCTORY SERVICES ****
§ 5-3-321 SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH LOCATION.
   A separate license is required for each location within the city at which an
escort bureau or introductory service is to be established or at which
arrangements for an escort or introductory service are made or where pecuniary
compensation for an escort or introductory service is paid.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-321) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-322 EMPLOYMENT AND ACTIVITIES OF ESCORTS.
   (A)   No holder of an escort bureau or introductory service permit shall
employ as an escort any person under 18 years of age.
   (B)   No holder of an escort bureau or introductory service permit shall
furnish any escort or introductory service to or accept employment from any
patron, customer or person to be escorted who is under 18 years of age, except
at the special instance and request of a parent, guardian or other person in
lawful custody of the person upon whose behalf the escort or introductory
service is engaged.
   (C)   No holder of an escort permit shall escort, offer to escort or perform
any activity described in this subchapter for any person under 18 years of age,
except at the special instance and request of the parent, guardian or other
person in lawful custody of the person on whose behalf the escort or
introductory service is engaged.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-322) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-323 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 5-3-324 NAMES OF ESCORTS TO BE FURNISHED TO POLICE.
   Every escort bureau shall furnish the Chief of Police with the names of and
information concerning all escorts employed or utilized by the bureau when
application is made for a license. The licensee shall thereafter submit notice
of any subsequent employment or utilization of other escorts or termination of
any escorts.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-324) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-325 RECORD OF CUSTOMERS AND APPOINTMENTS.
   Every person who maintains, conducts or operates as an escort, escort bureau
or introductory service shall, at all times, keep a registration book in
connection therewith in which each and every customer’s first, middle and last
name; telephone number; and complete address shall be written, together with
the date of initial contact and all appointments and contacts made thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-325) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-326 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It is unlawful for any person while acting as an escort to engage in any
specified sexual activity or expose any specified anatomical sexual areas. It
shall also be unlawful for any person while acting as an escort to act in a
manner intended to arouse, appeal to or gratify the lust or passions or sexual
desires of the customer or client of the escort.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-326) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-327 POSSESSION OF LICENSE.
   Every escort, while engaged as such, and every escort bureau and
introductory service is required to carry their license on their person or
within their immediate possession and shall produce it for inspection by any
law enforcement agency upon request.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-327) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-328 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF SUBCHAPTER OR FAILURE TO OBTAIN LICENSE.
   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter or failing to obtain
the license for an escort, escort bureau or introductory service required by §
5-1-29 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punishable by a fine of not more
than $500.00 or by imprisonment for not more than six months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. Revocation or suspension of a license issued under this
subchapter shall not be a defense against prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-328) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-329 VIOLATIONS DECLARED NUISANCE.
   Any escort bureau or introductory service operated, conducted or maintained
contrary to the provisions of this subchapter is hereby declared to be unlawful
and a public nuisance, and the City Attorney or the District Attorney may
commence an action or proceeding for the abatement, removal or enjoinment
thereof, in the manner provided by law, and shall take such other steps and
shall apply to such court as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will
abate or remove such establishment and restrain and enjoin any person from
operating, conducting or maintaining an escort bureau or introductory service
contrary to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-329) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-330 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER TO EXISTING BUSINESSES.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be applicable to all persons and
businesses described in this subchapter, whether the described activities were
established before or after the effective date of the ordinance enacting this
subchapter into law. All such persons and businesses shall have 60 days from
such effective date to comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-330) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 5-3-331—5-3-334 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 23. COMMERCIAL MOTION PICTURE PRODUCTIONS, TELEVISION
PRODUCTIONS AND STILL PHOTOGRAPHY ON PUBLIC PROPERTY ****
§ 5-3-335 PURPOSE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   It is the policy of the city to encourage commercial motion picture
production, television production and still photography within its boundaries.
This subchapter provides the basis for the regulations governing the issuance
of permits for filming, videotaping, still photography and related activities
on property owned, operated or administered by the city or the special
districts under the jurisdiction of the City Council. This subchapter is
intended to ensure that filming, videotaping and still photography is done in a
manner consistent with protecting the public health and safety and public
property.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-335) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-336 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE FILMS. Includes commercials, motion pictures, television
programs, videotapes or still photography produced by a nonprofit organization
which qualifies under I.R.C. § 501(c)(3) or as an organization which is
organized and operated for nonprofit purposes within the provisions of
California Revenue and Taxation Code, § 23701 et seq. as a charitable
organization. If such a nonprofit organization is involved in CHARITABLE FILM
making, videotaping or still photography, no person, directly or indirectly,
may receive a profit from the marketing, production or showing of the films,
videotapes or photographs.
   FILM PERMIT RIDER. A minor addition, change or deletion to the film permit,
as determined by the issuing agency.
   ISSUING AGENCY. The Director of Community Development, or their designated
representative, or any other representative specifically designated by the City
Council.
   MOTION PICTURE PRODUCTION, TELEVISION PRODUCTION and STILL PHOTOGRAPHY.
Include all activity attendant to staffing or shooting commercial motion
pictures, television programs, television commercials and still photography.
   NEWS MEDIA. Includes regularly scheduled news programs, not including
magazine or documentary programs, and special news programs which are not
preplanned and which are broadcast within 24 hours after the event.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-336) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 5-3-337 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except as provided in §
5-3-338, a person shall not use any property or facilities belonging to the
city or the special districts under the jurisdiction of the City Council for
the purpose of motion picture production, television production or still
photography without first applying for and receiving a film permit from the
issuing agency.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-337) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-338 EXEMPTIONS FROM SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Charitable films produced by nonprofit organizations, and news media,
are exempt from any permit fees established pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Any applicant who submits a letter written on school letterhead by a
school administrator or instructor stating that the applicant is currently
enrolled in a recognized United States educational institution and that the
film, videotape or photograph is not for commercial release is exempt from any
permit fees established pursuant to this subchapter.
   (C)   This subchapter does not apply to the filming or videotaping of motion
pictures or the taking of still photographs solely for private use.
   (D)   This subchapter does not apply to reporters, photographers,
cameraperson or other persons engaged in on-the-spot broadcasting of news
events for the news media.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-338) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-339 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; SURETY.
   (A)   The issuing agency is authorized and directed to promulgate policies
and procedures governing issuance of film permits and film permit riders. The
policies and procedures shall include provisions for personnel and property
usage charges and fees as approved by the City Council.
   (B)   To ensure cleanup and restoration of a site, the issuing agency may
require an applicant to post a refundable negotiable surety, with the amount to
be determined at the time the application is submitted. On completion of all
production activities and inspection of the site by the issuing agency, the
surety may be returned in full or in part based on the need for the appropriate
city department, agency or district to complete site cleanup or restoration, or
both.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-339) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-340 LIABILITY OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   As a condition of issuance of a permit under this subchapter, the
applicant must obtain a comprehensive general liability insurance policy
acceptable to the city issued by an insurance company authorized to do business
in the state, with coverage that includes the permitted activities and the
location in which the filming, videotaping or photography activities will occur
and any other area used by the applicant. The city and any special district
under the jurisdiction of the City Council, and their officers, agents and
employees, shall be named as additional insureds on the policy for protection
against claims of bodily injury, wrongful death and property damage. The policy
limits of the insurance policy shall not be less than the dollar amount
established by policy or resolution of the City Council per occurrence combined
single limit for both bodily injury and property damage.
   (B)   The policy shall also contain a provision that no termination,
cancellation or change of coverage on the insured or additional insured is
effective until after 30 days’ notice thereof has been given in writing to the
office of the issuing agency.
   (C)   The applicant shall indemnify and hold harmless the city and any
special district under the jurisdiction of the City Council, and their
officers, agents and employees, and shall defend, indemnify and save harmless
the city and any special district under the jurisdiction of the City Council,
and their officers, agents and employees, from any and all claims, demands,
suits, actions or proceedings of any kind or nature, including workers’
compensation claims, of or by any person, in any way resulting from any act or
omission of the applicant or such officers, agents or employees of the
applicant.
   (D)   The applicant shall conform to all applicable federal and state
workers’ compensation insurance requirements for all persons operating under a
film permit issued by the city.
   (E)   The applicant shall provide other insurance coverage as may be
required by the issuing agency.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-340) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-341 DUTIES OF FILM INDUSTRY LIAISON, ISSUING AGENCY AND CITY DEPARTMENTS
GENERALLY.
   (A)   The City Personnel Department public information office is the
designated city film industry liaison, and shall:
      (1)   Provide information and referral assistance, resource material and
applications to individuals and organizations desiring to conduct motion
picture, television or photography activities in the city;
      (2)   Develop and administer programs to promote the development of the
film industry in the city;
      (3)   Cooperate and coordinate with public and private sector
representatives seeking to promote the development of the film industry in the
city; and
      (4)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the City Council.
   (B)   The issuing agency shall:
      (1)   Coordinate with city departments, agencies and districts for the
approval and issuance of facility usage permits required to film, videotape or
photograph on their respective city or district property;
      (2)   Collect the appropriate charges and fees; and
      (3)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the City Council.
   (C)   The appropriate city departments, agencies and districts shall monitor
the activities of permittees to ensure compliance with permit requirements. If,
in the judgment of the appropriate department, agency or district, there is or
has been a violation of the permit, that department, agency or district shall
notify the issuing agency of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-341) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 5-3-342 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The issuing agency may deny granting a film permit or a film permit
rider for any reasonable cause which, in its sound discretion, is contrary to
the public health, safety or welfare, or if the issuing agency determines that
the requested activities may unreasonably interfere with the normal operation
or use of the property.
   (B)   The issuing agency may cancel, revoke or suspend a permit if the
permittee violates any provision of this subchapter or a permit issued pursuant
to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-342) (Ord. 90-11, § 5, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 5-3-343—5-3-350 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 24. RESERVED ****
§§ 5-3-351—5-3-355 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
***** CHAPTER 4: CABLE COMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE ORDINANCE *****
Section
5-4-1   Title
5-4-2   Definitions
5-4-3   Grant of franchise
5-4-4   Rights reserved to the grantor
5-4-5   Rights of subscribers
5-4-6   Finance
5-4-7   Services
5-4-8   Design and construction
5-4-9   Operations and maintenance
5-4-10   Violations
5-4-11   Termination and forfeiture
5-4-12   Franchise applications
5-4-13   Records; reports; right to inspect and audit; experts
5-4-14   Enforcement mechanism
5-4-15   Miscellaneous provisions
Cross-reference:
Highways, streets and rights-of-way, see Title 7
Editor’s note:
Ord. 2003-132, § 1, adopted 10-21-2003, amended the code by, in effect,
repealing former Chapter 4, §§ 5-4-1 through 5-4-38, and adding a new Chapter
4. Former Chapter 4 pertained to cable television systems, and derived from
Ord. 90-11, adopted 3-6-1990.
§ 5-4-1 TITLE.
   This chapter is known and may be cited as the “Cable Communications
Franchise Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1) (Ord. 2003-132, § 1, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 5-4-2 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms defined. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      1984 CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, being 47
U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.
      1992 CABLE ACT. The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition
Act of 1992 (Pub. Law No. 102-385) and codified at 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.
      ADDITIONAL SERVICE. Any service not included in basic service or
institutional service.
      ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER. The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee.
      AFFILIATED PERSON or AFFILIATES.
         (a)   Each person who falls into one or more of the following
categories:
            1.   Each person having, directly or indirectly, a controlling
interest in grantee;
            2.   Each person in which grantee has, directly or indirectly, a
controlling interest;
            3.   Each officer, director, general partner, limited partner
holding an interest of 5% or more, joint venturer or joint venture partner in
grantee’s cable system in the city; and
            4.   Each person, directly or indirectly, controlling, controlled
by or under common control with grantee.
         (b)   Provided that AFFILIATED PERSON excludes the grantor, any
limited partner holding an interest of less than 5% in a grantee or any
creditor of grantee, solely by virtue of its status as a creditor, and which is
not otherwise an affiliated person by reason of owning a controlling interest
in, being owned by or being under common ownership, common management or common
control with grantee.
      AGENCY SUBSCRIBER. A subscriber who receives a service in a government or
public agency, school or nonprofit corporation facility.
      BASIC SERVICE or BASIC CABLE SERVICE or BASIC SERVICE TIER. The lowest
service tier which includes the retransmission of local television broadcast
signals and public, educational and governmental access channels.
      BROADCAST SIGNAL. A signal transmitted over the air to a geographically
dispersed public audience and received by a cable system.
      CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended by the
Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 and by the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, codified at 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et. seq.
      CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or group of persons:
         (a)   Who provides cable service over a cable system in the city and,
directly or through one or more affiliates, owns a significant interest in that
cable system; or
         (b)   Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system in the city.
      CABLE SERVICE.
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
other programming service; and
         (b)   Subscriber interaction which is required for the selection of or
use of such video programming or such other programming service.
      CABLE SYSTEM or CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM or SYSTEM. A facility
consisting of a set of closed transmission paths and associated signal
generation reception, and control equipment that is designed to provide cable
service, which includes video programming, and which is provided to multiple
subscribers within the city; but this term does not include:
         (a)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals
of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   A facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   A facility of a common carrier which is subject, in whole or in
part, to the provisions of Title II of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq.), except that such facility shall be considered a cable
system (other than for purposes of § 621(c) of the Cable Act) to the extent
such facility is used in the transmission of video programming directly to
subscribers, unless the extent of such use is solely to provide interactive on-
demand services;
         (d)   An open video system that complies with § 653 of the Cable Act;
or
         (e)   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
      CABLECAST SIGNAL. A nonbroadcast signal that originates within the
facilities of the cable system, whether from a live or recorded source.
      CITY. The City of Laguna Niguel, California, and all special districts
which are governed by the City Council.
      CLOSE CIRCUIT or INSTITUTIONAL SERVICE. Services provided to
institutional users on an individual or collective basis. The information
contained in such a service may or may not be simultaneously available to other
system subscribers or users.
      CHANNEL. A frequency band capable of carrying a standard video signal or
some combination of video signals.
      COMMERCIAL SUBSCRIBER. A subscriber who receives a cable service in a
place other than a residential dwelling unit.
      COMPLAINT. A dispute in which a subscriber notifies the grantee of an
outage or degradation in picture quality, billing or other issue pertaining to
the subscriber’s cable service which is not corrected during the initial
telephone or service call.
      CONTROL or CONTROLLING INTEREST. Actual working control in whatever
manner exercised, including, without limitation, working control through
ownership, management, debt instruments or negative control, as the case may
be, of the cable system or a grantee. A rebuttable presumption of the existence
of control or a controlling interest shall arise from the beneficial ownership,
directly or indirectly, by any person or group of persons acting in concert
(other than underwriters during the period in which they are offering
securities to the public) of 20% or more of any person (which person or group
of persons is referred to as controlling person), or being a party to a
management contract.
      CONVERTER or TERMINAL. A device located at the subscriber’s premises that
converts signals from one frequency to another or otherwise processes signals
for use by subscribers.
      DROP. The cable connecting the cable system’s plant to equipment at the
subscriber’s premises.
      EDUCATION CHANNEL. Any channel capacity where nonprofit, noncommercial
educational institutions are the primary designated programmers.
      FACILITIES. Any equipment located, in whole or in part, in, above or
below streets, public rights-of-way or other public property used by the
grantor in its system, including, without limitation, conduits, cables,
cabinets, nodes, structures, headend equipment, receive only earthstations,
down link equipment and antennas, electronics, fiber cable, coaxial cable,
drops and switching equipment.
      FCC. The Federal Communications Commission or its designated
representatives.
      FRANCHISE. A written legal undertaking or action of the grantor which
authorizes a specific person to use the grantor’s streets and public ways for
the purpose of installing, operating, maintaining or reconstructing a cable
system to provide cable service.
      GOVERNMENT CHANNEL. Any channel capacity where local government agencies
are the primary designated programmers, and programming is informational
programming regarding government activities and programs.
      GRANTEE. The person granted a franchise to install, operate, maintain or
reconstruct a cable system and the lawful successors, transferees or assignees
of that person.
      GRANTOR. The city, acting by and through its elected governing body, or
such representative as the governing body may designate to act on cable matters
in its behalf.
      GROSS ANNUAL REVENUE or GROSS ANNUAL RECEIPTS or GROSS RECEIPTS.
         (a)   All revenue, as determined in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, which is received, directly or indirectly, by the
grantee and by each affiliated person from or in connection with the
distribution of any cable service, and any other service which may, under now
or then applicable federal law, be included in the Cable Act definition for the
purpose of calculating and collecting the maximum allowable franchise fee for
operation of the system, whether or not authorized by any franchise, including,
without limitation, leased or access channel revenues received, directly or
indirectly, from or in connection with the distribution of any cable service.
It is intended that all revenue collected by the grantee, and by each
affiliated person, from the provision of cable service over the system, whether
or not authorized by the franchise, be included in this definition.
         (b)   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUE also specifically includes:
            1.   The fair market value of any non-monetary (i.e., barter)
transactions between grantee and any person, other than an affiliated person,
but not less than the customary prices paid in connection with equivalent
transactions;
            2.   The fair market value of any nonmonetary (i.e., barter)
transaction between grantee and any affiliated persons, but not less than the
customary prices paid in connection with equivalent transactions conducted with
persons who are not affiliated persons;
            3.   Any revenues generated from the provision of internet and/or
broadband services which utilize the cable system for delivery and must not be
excluded pursuant to applicable law; and
            4.   Any revenue received, as reasonably determined from time to
time by the grantor, through any means which is intended to have the effect of
avoiding the payment of compensation that would otherwise be paid to the
grantor for the franchise granted.
         (c)   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUE also includes any bad debts recovered.
GROSS ANNUAL REVENUE also includes all advertising revenue which is received,
directly or indirectly, by the grantee, any affiliated person or any other
person from or in connection with the distribution of any service over the
system or the provision of any service-related activity in connection with the
system.
         (d)   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUE does not include:
            1.   The revenue of any person to the extent that said revenue is
also included in the gross annual revenue of grantee;
            2.   Taxes imposed by law on subscribers which grantee is obligated
to collect; and
            3.   Amounts which must be excluded pursuant to applicable law.
      HEADEND. The central portion of the system where signals are introduced
into the system.
      INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK or INSTITUTIONAL SYSTEM. A system or portion of a
system intended primarily to service nonresidential subscribers.
      LEASE CHANNEL. Any channel where someone other than grantor or grantee is
sold the rights to air programming.
      LOCAL ORIGINATION CHANNEL. Any channel where a grantee is the primary
designated programmer.
      MONITORING or TAPPING. Observing or receiving a signal, where the
observer is neither the sending nor receiving party and is not authorized by
the sending or receiving party to observe said signal, whether the signal is
observed or received by visual, electronic or any other means whatsoever.
      NODES. The cabinet or housing and equipment, power supply, fans, gas
generators, batteries and optical to electrical converters, which is the point
where fiber facilities and coaxial facilities are connected.
      NONBROADCAST SIGNAL. A signal that is not involved in over-the-air
broadcast for general public reception.
      OPEN CHANNEL. Any channel that can be received by all subscribers without
the use of special equipment not normally possessed by, or available to, anyone
who may become a subscriber.
      PAY CABLE, PAY SERVICE, PREMIUM SERVICE or PAY TELEVISION. Signals for
which there is a fee or charge to users over and above the charge for basic
service, including any tiers of service; provided, however, the sale or lease
of studio facilities, equipment or tapes to local users shall not be deemed pay
or premium services.
      PEDESTAL. An above-ground or below-ground enclosure which houses active
and/or passive electronic equipment used to serve subscribers.
      PEG CHANNEL. Collectively, the channel capacity dedicated public,
education or government channel.
      PERSON. Any corporation, partnership, proprietorship, individual or
organization authorized to do business in the state.
      PLANT. The transmitting medium and related equipment which transmits
signals between the headend and subscribers, including drops.
      POLE ATTACHMENT AGREEMENT or ATTACHMENT AGREEMENT. Any agreement with the
grantor, any other governmental entity or any public utility relating to a
grantee’s use of any utility poles, ducts or conduits.
      PROGRAM or PROGRAMMING. The information content of a signal and the act
or process of creating such content, whether that content is intended to be
pictures and sound, sound only or any other form of information whatsoever.
      PROGRAMMER. Any person who provides program material or information for
transmission by means of a system.
      PROPERTY OF GRANTEE. All property owned or leased within the franchise
service area by grantee in the conduct of its system business under a
franchise.
      PUBLIC CHANNEL, ACCESS CHANNEL, COMMUNITY SERVICE CHANNEL or COMMUNITY
CHANNEL. Any channel capacity for which members of the public, or any community
organization, may provide non-advertiser supported programming; provided,
however, sponsorship identification fees may be paid and accepted to further
community programming.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any public street, public way, public place or
rights-of-way, now laid out or dedicated, and the space on, above or below it,
and all extensions thereof, and additions thereto, under the jurisdiction of
grantor.
      PULL BOX. A flush mounted or above-ground housing which encloses one or
more conduit openings.
      RESIDENT. Any person residing in the franchise service area, or as
otherwise defined by applicable law.
      RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT or DWELLING UNIT. A home, mobile home,
condominium, apartment, cooperative unit and any other individual dwelling
unit.
      RESIDENTIAL SUBSCRIBER. A subscriber who receives a service in a dwelling
unit.
      SERVICE. Any kind of service or type of benefit provided by grantee, or
any group of related benefits obtained or made available to any person,
involving the use of a signal transmitted via a cable communications system,
whether the signal and its content constitute the entire service or comprise
only a part of a service which involves other elements of any number or kind.
      SERVICE AREA or FRANCHISE SERVICE AREA. The entirety of the city.
      SERVICE INTERRUPTION. The loss of picture or sound on one or more cable
channels.
      SERVICE TIER or TIER. A category of cable service or other services
provided by a cable operator and for which a separate rate is charged by the
cable operator, other than per channel or per event programming or legitimate
packages of per channel or per event programming.
      STREETS and PUBLIC WAYS. The surface of, and the space above and below,
any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public way or right-of-way of any
type whatsoever.
      SUBSCRIBER. Any person that lawfully subscribes to and receives a cable
service provided by grantee by means of or in connection with its cable system.
      TAP. The point of interconnection between that portion of the cable
system located in the public rights-of-way and a drop.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT. The Telecommunications Act of 1996, codified at
47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.
      UNIT. A discrete place where system services are used, such as a
residence, apartment, office, store and the like.
      USER(S). Any person who either receives services from a cable system or
who accomplishes any purpose by, in part or in whole, transmitting or receiving
information via a cable system, or who creates programming for that purpose, or
who receives and uses programming.
   (B)   Terms not defined. Words, terms or phrases not defined herein shall
first have the meaning as defined in the Cable Act, and then the special
meanings or connotations used in any industry, business, trade or profession
where they commonly carry such special meanings. If those special meanings are
not common, they will have the standard definitions as set forth in commonly
used and accepted dictionaries of the English language.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2) (Ord. 2003-132, § 1, passed 10-21-2003)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 5-4-3 GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Authority to grant franchises. The grantor may grant a franchise to
provide cable service to any person who offers to provide a system pursuant to
this chapter.
   (B)   Form. A franchise may, at grantor’s sole option, take the form of an
ordinance, license, permit, contract, resolution or any other form by grantor.
   (C)   Grants not required. Consistent with applicable state and federal law,
no provision of this chapter requires the granting of a franchise when, in the
opinion of the grantor, it is in the public interest not to do so.
   (D)   Purpose. The purpose of a franchise is to identify and authorize the
operation of a cable communications system by a specific grantee, and to
identify and specify those terms, conditions, definitions, itemizations,
specifications and other particulars of the agreement between grantor and a
grantee. In so doing, a franchise may clarify, extend and interpret the
provisions of this chapter. Where a franchise and this chapter conflict, both
shall be liberally interpreted to achieve a common meaning or requirement. In
the event this is not stated, no provision of this chapter shall be deemed to
be contractually incorporated into any franchise granted hereunder.
   (E)   Compliance with law. Neither this chapter nor a franchise granted
under it relieves a grantee of any requirement of the grantor, or of any
ordinance, rule, regulation or specification of the grantor now or hereafter in
effect pursuant to the grantor’s police power, including, but not limited to,
the obtaining of a business license, and the payment of all permit and
inspection fees required from time to time by the grantor.
   (F)   Franchise non-exclusive. The grantor may, at its option, grant one or
more franchises to construct, operate, maintain and reconstruct a system. Said
franchises shall constitute both a privilege and an obligation to provide the
system and services required by this chapter and the franchise.
   (G)   Duration. The term of any franchise, and all rights, privileges,
obligations and restrictions pertaining thereto, shall be specified in the
franchise. The effective date of any franchise shall be as specified in the
franchise.
   (H)   Use of public streets and rights-of-way. For the purposes of operating
and maintaining a system in the franchised service area, a grantee may place
and maintain within the public rights-of-way such property and equipment as
meets with the approval and conforms to the standards of the city and as are
necessary and appurtenant to the operation of the cable communications system.
Prior to construction or alteration of the plant in public rights-of-way, a
grantee shall apply for, pay for all applicable fees and receive all necessary
permits.
   (I)   Use of other utilities. Any person who provides a system or services
as defined herein shall be deemed a grantee and must obtain a franchise. If
such grantee uses distribution channels furnished by any telephone company,
other public utility or any other entity which are functionally equivalent to
those used by a cable operator, said grantee shall be required to comply with
all the provisions of this chapter.
   (J)   Assignment, transfer or sale of franchise.
      (1)   There shall be no assignment of a franchise, in whole or in part,
or any change in control of a grantee, without the prior express written
approval of the grantor.
      (2)   Any assignment or transfer, or any change in control, without the
grantor’s prior written consent shall constitute a default which will cause a
franchise to terminate.
      (3)   At least 120 days before a proposed assignment or change in control
of the franchise is scheduled to become effective, a grantee shall request in
writing the grantor’s written consent. A grantee shall submit to the grantor
(concurrently with the submission of its written request) an FCC 394 Form (or
successor form) together with:
         (a)   Any other information or documentation required by the state or
federal government (including the FCC);
         (b)   The information referenced in division (J)(7) below;
         (c)   Unedited and unredacted copies of the sale or transfer documents
with all schedules and exhibits thereto; and
         (d)   Information regarding the financial ability and stability of the
proposed assignee with respect to being able to perform all obligations of the
existing franchise.
      (4)   The grantor shall not unreasonably withhold its consent to such an
assignment or change in control. However, in evaluating the request for
assignment, transfer, sale or change in control, the grantor may, in its sole
discretion and among other things, undertake a technical inspection and audit
of the system to determine whether the system complies with all applicable
technical and safety codes, this chapter and the franchise.
      (5)   If the grantor determines (as a result of the technical inspection
and audit) that the system does not comply with the federal, state or local
standards, then a grantee shall be provided with an opportunity to correct or
cure the noncompliance either prior to or after the transfer or change of
control. In the alternative, the grantor may work with both the current and
proposed grantee to cure the non-compliance. The grantor shall be under no
obligation to approve any transfer or assignment if a grantee is in breach.
      (6)   Before an assignment or change in control is approved by the
grantor, the proposed assignee, transferee or buyer shall execute an affidavit
acknowledging that it has read, understood and will abide by both this chapter
and the applicable franchise.
      (7)   In the event of any approved assignment or change in control, the
assignee or transferee shall assume all obligations and liabilities of the
former grantee relating to the franchise, unless specifically relieved by the
grantor at the time the assignment or change in control is approved.
      (8)   If the grantor disapproves a request for consent, then a grantee
may submit another request or an amended request for consent or seek whatever
address is permitted under applicable law. In such a situation, a new 120-day
time frame begins to run from the date of the submission of the new, amended or
modified request or application.
   (K)   Reimbursement of processing and review costs. The grantee shall
reimburse the grantor for the grantor’s reasonable processing and review
expenses in connection with a transfer of the franchise or a change in control
of the franchise, including, without limitation, costs of administrative
review, financial, legal and technical evaluation of the proposed transferee,
costs of consultants (including technical and legal experts), notice and
publication costs and document preparation expenses. A reasonable deposit in an
amount determined by the city may be required by the city. In addition, prior
to any transfer or change in control, the grantee shall reimburse the grantor
for all of the grantor’s expenses in connection with evaluating or negotiating
a renewal of the grantee’s franchise, whether or not said renewal was ever
finalized or granted. The grantor may send the grantee an itemized description
of all such charges, and the grantee shall pay such amount within 20 days after
the receipt of such description.
   (L)   Violation. If a grantee violates any provision of §
5-4-3(J), the franchise shall automatically terminate. The procedures contained
in §
5-4-13 shall not apply to an unlawful transfer or change in control, and the
franchise shall automatically terminate upon the occurrence of that violation.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-3) (Ord. 2003-132, § 1, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 5-4-4 RIGHTS RESERVED TO THE GRANTOR.
   (A)   Reservation. The grantor reserves every right it may have in relation
to its power of eminent domain over the grantee’s franchise and property.
   (B)   Nonwaiver or bar. Neither the granting of any franchise, nor any
provisions of this chapter, shall constitute or be construed as a waiver or bar
to the exercise of any governmental right or power by the grantor.
   (C)   Delegation of powers. Any right or power is, or duty retained by or
imposed upon the grantor, or any commission, officer, employee, department or
board of the grantor, may be delegated by the grantor to any officer, employee,
department or board of the grantor, or to such other person or entity as the
grantor may designate to act on its behalf.
   (D)   Right of inspection and construction. The grantor shall have the right
to inspect and approve all construction, installation or other physical work
performed by the grantee in the public rights-of-way and on private property
consistent with its generally applicable building codes, so long as said
inspection and testing does not unreasonably interfere with the grantee’s
operations.
   (E)   Right to require removal of property. Consistent with applicable law,
at the expiration of the term or any renewal term or extension for which the
franchise is granted, or upon its lawful revocation, expiration or termination,
the grantor shall have the right to require a grantee to remove, at the
grantee’s expense, all portions of its system and any other property from all
streets and public rights-of-way within the franchise service area within a
reasonable period of time.
   (F)   Right of intervention. The grantor shall have the right of
intervention in any suit, proceeding or other judicial or administrative
proceeding in which the grantor has any material interest, and to which a
grantee is party.
   (G)   Place of inspection. The grantor shall have the right to inspect the
grantee’s local premises, and to request copies of all relevant information
that is reasonably necessary for the exercise of the grantor’s regulatory
authority, upon reasonable notice at any time during normal business hours. Any
grantee records kept at another place shall, within ten days of the grantor’s
request, be made available at the grantee’s local premises within the county
for the grantor’s inspection and copying. All reports and records required
pursuant to this chapter shall be furnished at the sole expense of the grantee,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter or the franchise.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4) (Ord. 2003-132, § 1, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 5-4-5 RIGHTS OF SUBSCRIBERS.
   (A)   Discriminatory practices prohibited. A grantee shall not deny cable
service or otherwise discriminate against subscribers or others on the basis of
race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, handicap or other protected
classes. A grantee shall strictly adhere to the equal employment opportunity
requirements of federal, state or local governments and shall comply with all
applicable laws and executive and administrative orders relating to
nondiscrimination.
   (B)   Tapping and monitoring. A grantee shall not tap or monitor, or permit
any other person controlled by grantee to tap or monitor, any cable, line,
signal input device or subscriber outlet or receiver, for any purpose
whatsoever without the express written consent of the subscriber or a court
order therefor; provided, however, that a grantee may monitor customer service
calls for quality control purposes and may conduct system-wide or individually
addressed “sweeps” for the purpose of verifying system integrity, monitoring
signal levels or checking for unauthorized connections to the cable television
system, service levels or billing-for-pay services.
   (C)   Data collection.
      (1)   Except for its own use, or in connection with the provision of
cable services or for release of data to the grantor, the grantee shall not
permit its system to be used for data collection purposes, nor shall it
otherwise collect data which would reveal the commercial product or other
preferences or opinions of an individual subscriber, members of their families,
or their guests, licensees or employees, unless the grantee shall have received
the prior written consent of such subscriber.
      (2)   In any event, the grantee shall not disclose or permit the release
or sale of data on individual subscribers or groups thereof, but may disclose
or permit the release or sale of aggregate data only.
      (3)   The grantee shall not disclose, or sell, or permit the disclosure
or sale of its subscriber list without the prior written consent of each
subscriber on such list; provided that the grantee may use its subscriber list
as necessary for the construction, marketing and maintenance of the grantee’s
services and facilities authorized by a franchise, and the billing of
subscribers for cable services; and provided further, that consistent with
applicable law, the grantor may use the grantee’s subscriber list for the
purpose of communication with subscribers in connection with matters relating
to the operation, management and maintenance of the cable system.
      (4)   The grantee shall not disclose individual subscriber preferences,
viewing habits, beliefs, philosophy, creeds or religious beliefs to any third
person, firm, agency, governmental unit or investigating agency without court
authority or the prior written consent of the subscriber.
   (D)   Terms of subscriber consent.
      (1)   Any written consent, if given, shall be limited to a period of time
not to exceed one year, or a term agreed upon by the grantee and the
subscriber.
      (2)   The grantee shall not condition the delivery or receipt of cable
services to any subscriber on any such consent.
      (3)   A subscriber may at any time revoke, without penalty or cost, any
consent previously given by delivering to the grantee in writing a statement of
the subscriber’s intent to so revoke.
   (E)   Other persons affected. The prohibitions contained in divisions (A)
through (D), above, inclusive, apply to the grantee, as well as to all of the
following:
      (1)   Officers, directors, employees, agents and general and limited
partners of the grantee;
      (2)   Any person or combination of persons owning, holding or controlling
any corporate stock or other ownership interests in the grantee;
      (3)   Any affiliated or subsidiary entity owned or controlled by grantee,
or in which any officer, director, stockholder, general or limited partner or
person or group of persons owning, holding or controlling any ownership
interest in the grantee, shall own, hold or control any corporate stock or
other ownership interests; and
      (4)   Any person, firm or corporation acting or serving in the capacity
of a holding or controlling company of the grantee.
   (F)   Subscriber bill of rights. The grantee shall provide to all
subscribers, at the time of initial connection and annually thereafter, a
notice in a form previously approved by the grantor (which approval shall not
be unreasonably withheld) describing, in understandable language, the
subscriber’s rights and obligations that are generally provided under the
franchise and federal law, including a description of how to contact the
grantee and, if necessary, the grantor, in the event of an unresolved
subscriber complaint.
   (G)   Notice to new subscribers. Before providing cable service to any
subscriber, the grantee shall provide a written notice to the subscriber
containing substantially the following information: “Subscriber understands
that Company uses public rights-of-way and other facilities of the City of
Laguna Niguel in providing service and that this continued use cannot be
guaranteed. Subscriber agrees not to make any claims against the City of Laguna
Niguel or its officers or employees in the event that such use is denied for
any reason, and Company is unable, in its discretion, to provide service over
alternate routes.”
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5) (Ord. 2003-132, § 1, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 5-4-6 FINANCE.
   (A)   Payments to the grantor.
      (1)   As compensation for any franchise to be granted, and in
consideration of permission to use the grantor’s streets and public rights-of-
way for the construction, operation, maintenance and reconstruction of a
system, the grantee shall pay to the grantor the amounts specified in the
franchise.
      (2)   Payments due the grantor shall be computed quarterly, and shall be
paid within 30 days after the close of each calendar quarter. The payment shall
be accompanied by a report showing the basis for the computation and such other
relevant facts as may be required by the grantor to determine the accuracy of
the payment. A final annual reconciliation, and payment if any, shall be
delivered to the grantor by the grantee within 90 days after the end of each
calendar year.
      (3)   If any franchise payment or recomputed amount is not made on or
before the dates specified above in division (A)(2) above, the grantee shall
pay as additional compensation the greater of the following:
         (a)   An interest charge, computed from the applicable due date, at an
annual rate equal to the prevailing commercial prime interest rate in effect
upon the due date, plus 3%; and
         (b)   A sum of money equal to $4,000 for each month, or part thereof,
of delay, which sum shall also bear interest from the due date at an annual
rate equal to the prevailing commercial prime interest rate in effect upon the
due date, plus 1%.
      (4)   In addition to any late payment made pursuant to division (A)(3)
above, if a payment is late by 60 days or more, the grantee shall pay a sum of
money equal to 5% of the amount due in order to defray additional expenses and
costs incurred by granter as a result of such delinquent payment.
      (5)   No acceptance of any payment shall be construed as a release of, or
an accord, or satisfaction of, any claim that the granter might have for
further or additional sums payable under the terms of this chapter, or for any
other performance by the grantee of an obligation hereunder.
      (6)   Payments of compensation made by a grantee to the granter pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter are in addition to, and exclusive of, any and
all authorized taxes, business license fees and other fees, levies or
assessments now in effect, or subsequently adopted in accordance with state and
federal law.
   (B)   Security Fund.
      (1)   Within 30 days after the effective date of the franchise, a grantee
shall deposit into a bank account established by a grantee, for the benefit of
the granter, and shall maintain on deposit through the term of the franchise, a
sum specified in the franchise as security for the faithful performance by the
grantee of all of the provisions of the franchise, and compliance with this
chapter and with all orders, permits and directions of the granter, or any
designated representative of the granter having jurisdiction over the grantee’s
acts or defaults under the franchise or this chapter, and as security for the
payment by a grantee of any claims, fees, liens or taxes due the granter which
arise by reason of the construction, operation, maintenance or reconstruction
of the system pursuant to the franchise or this chapter, and to satisfy any
actual or liquidated damages arising out of a franchise breach.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in the franchise, if a grantee fails,
after 20 days written notice, to pay to the granter any fees that are due and
unpaid, or fails to repay within such 20 days, any damages, costs or expenses
which the granter is compelled to pay by reason of any act or default of
grantee in connection with its franchise; or if the grantee fails to comply
with any provision of the franchise or this chapter and the granter determines
that such failure was without just cause and, in a manner consistent with the
procedures specified in §
5-4-14, the granter reasonably determines it can be remedied by a withdrawal
from the Security Fund or is nevertheless subject to liquidated damages, then,
in any such event, the granter may immediately withdraw the amount thereof from
the Security Fund, with interest and any liquidated damages. Upon such
withdrawal, the granter shall notify a grantee of the amount and the date of
withdrawal.
      (3)   Within 30 days after notice to grantee that any amount has been
withdrawn by the granter from the Security Fund, a grantee shall deposit a sum
of money sufficient to restore such Security Fund to the original amount.
      (4)   The grantee shall be entitled to the return of the Security Fund,
or portion thereof, with interest, that remains on deposit at the expiration or
termination of the franchise, once all amounts due to the granter have been
paid. The grantee shall also retain its right to challenge any withdrawal from
such Security Fund.
      (5)   The rights reserved to the granter with respect to the Security
Fund are in addition to all other rights of the granter, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of a right with respect to such Security Fund shall
affect any other right the granter may have.
   (C)   Faithful performance bond.
      (1)   Within 30 days after the effective date of the franchise, a grantee
shall furnish proof of the posting of a faithful performance bond in favor of
the granter, with corporate surety approved by the granter in the sum specified
in the franchise and conditioned that a grantee shall well and truly observe,
fulfill and perform each term and condition of the franchise; provided,
however, that such bond shall not be required after certification by the
granter of the completion of construction of the grantee’s cable system.
      (2)   The corporate surety must be authorized to issue such bonds in the
state, and the bond must be obtained and secured through an authorized agent in
the county.
      (3)   During the course of construction, the amount of the bond may from
time to time be reduced, as provided in the franchise.
      (4)   Written evidence of payment of premiums shall be filed with the
grantor.
   (D)   Letter of credit.
      (1)   At the option of the grantor, a grantee may be authorized, in lieu
of creating a Security Fund or obtaining a faithful performance bond, to post
an irrevocable letter of credit, issued by a bank approved by the grantor, in
the amount specified in the franchise. Said letter of credit shall incorporate
wording approved by the grantor enabling it to draw, from time to time, such
funds as the grantor may determine to be necessary to satisfy any material
defaults of the grantee or to make any payments due the grantor under or in
connection with this chapter or the grantee’s franchise, upon not more than ten
days’ written notice to the issuer of the letter of credit. Said letter of
credit shall further provide for 60 days written notice by certified mail from
its issuer to the grantor of any pending expiration or cancellation, and said
notice shall without further cause constitute reason for the grantor to draw
the full sum to be held in its own accounts until such letter of credit is
reestablished in a form satisfactory to the grantor.
      (2)   If the grantor requires such a letter of credit, the grantee shall
pay all fees or other charges required to keep it in force and shall, within 30
days of any draw by the grantor, restore its face value to the original amount.
      (3)   All provisions herein applicable to bonds or security funds shall
also apply to letters of credit.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-6) (Ord. 2003-132, § 1, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 5-4-7 SERVICES.
   (A)   Services to be provided. A cable system shall provide, as a minimum,
the broad programming categories specified in the franchise.
   (B)   Changes in service. The grantee shall inform the grantor and its
subscribers at least 30 days in advance of making any change in a cable
service, or in the rates charged therefor.
   (C)   Nondiscrimination. The grantee shall not discriminate between or
amongst subscribers within one type or class in the availability of services,
at either standard or differential rates according to published rate schedules,
except as otherwise authorized by law. No charges may be made for services
except as listed in published schedules which are available for inspection by
anyone at the grantee’s office, quoted by the grantee on the telephone and
displayed or communicated to all potential subscribers.
   (D)   Prepayment.
      (1)   The grantee may not charge subscribers for services more than one
month in advance, unless an individual subscriber requests a longer period.
Bills may be due and payable upon mailing but shall not be delinquent, and no
late charge penalties shall be assessed, until the later of:
         (a)   Twenty-two days from postmark; or
         (b)   Service has actually been provided for the billed period.
      (2)   All bills and billing statements shall clearly indicate the billing
period, the actual due date and the delinquent or late payment or assessment.
   (E)   Disconnect for cause. The grantee may disconnect a subscriber only for
cause, which shall include, without limitation, the following:
      (1)   Payment delinquency in excess of 45 days;
      (2)   Willful or negligent damage to or misappropriation of the grantee’s
property;
      (3)   Monitoring, tapping or tampering with the grantee’s system, signals
or service; and
      (4)   Threats of violence to the grantee’s employees or property.
   (F)   Reconnection. The grantee shall, upon subscriber’s written request,
reconnect service which has been disconnected for payment delinquency when
payment has removed for delinquency. If authorized by applicable law, a
published standard charge may be made for reconnection. The grantee shall not
be required to make more than three reconnections for the same subscriber if
the disconnections involved were caused by payment delinquency within any
previous 24-month period. Reconnection for disconnects covered by divisions (E)
(2), (E)(3) and (E)(4) above shall be at the grantee’s sole discretion.
   (G)   Installations.
      (1)   The grantee shall promptly provide and maintain service as
specified in the franchise to the residential, commercial and industrial
structures in the franchise service area, as defined in the franchise, upon
request of the lawful occupant or owner.
      (2)   Where a new drop is required to provide service, the grantee shall
advise each subscriber that the subscriber has the right to require that
installation be done over any route on the subscriber’s property, and in any
manner the subscriber may elect which is technically feasible and consistent
with proper construction practices. If the subscriber requests installation
other than a standard installation, then the subscriber may be required to pay
a reasonable fee for the time and materials occasioned by that installation.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (G)(3), a standard installation shall
include installation of drop cable with fittings up to 150 feet from the cable
system distribution system measured along the center line of the street or
utility easement through the house wall or, at the subscriber’s option, through
the floor from a house vent or crawl space directly to the subscriber’s
television set with five feet of cable from the wall or floor entry to the
television set. Also included as a part of a standard installation is the
grounding cable, fine tuning of the television set and the provision by the
grantee of the appropriate literature and information.
      (4)   After cable service has been established by activating trunk or
distribution cables from any area, the grantee shall provide service to any
person requesting service in that area within seven days from the date of
request; provided that the grantee is able to secure all access rights
necessary to extend service to that potential subscriber within that seven-day
period on reasonable terms and conditions.
   (H)   Nonstandard installations. For each nonstandard installation, a
grantee may charge the subscriber for the cost of material and labor in excess
of that required for a standard installation. The grantee shall provide each
subscriber a written estimate of all charges for a nonstandard installation
prior to installation and obtain subscriber’s written authorization in advance
for all nonstandard installation charges.
   (I)   Converters/terminals. At such time as a terminal or converter is
required for subscribers to have access to all services on its system, the
grantee shall make them available to subscribers for a fee. The grantee may
require each subscriber who elects to install a converter or terminal to
furnish a security deposit therefor.
      (1)   Each converter or terminal device shall be and remain the property
of the grantee, unless the grantor approves or requires its sale to the
subscriber. The grantee shall be responsible for maintenance and repair of all
equipment owned by the grantee and may replace it as the grantee may from time
to time elect, except that the subscriber shall be responsible for loss of or
damage to any such device while in the subscriber’s possession.
      (2)   Upon termination or cancellation of the subscriber’s service, the
subscriber shall promptly return the grantee’s property to the grantee in the
same condition as received, reasonable wear and tear excepted.
      (3)   The grantee may apply the security deposit against any sum due from
the subscriber for loss of or damage to such converter or terminal exceeding
reasonable wear and tear. In the event that no security deposit has been
required, the grantee may charge the subscriber for any such damage exceeding
reasonable wear and tear.
      (4)   If the grantee has no claim against the subscriber’s security
deposit, the grantee shall return it, or the balance, to the subscriber within
20 days of return of the converter or terminal.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-7) (Ord. 2003-132, § 1, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 5-4-8 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   System construction. The system shall be constructed in accordance
with the provisions of the franchise.
   (B)   Construction components and techniques. Construction components and
techniques shall be in accordance with the franchise and all applicable law.
   (C)   Construction notice. The grantee shall give at least 48 hours’ advance
notice to all property owners and to the grantor prior to installing any above-
ground or underground structures upon easements located on private property.
The grantee shall be a member of Underground Service Alert (USA).
   (D)   System construction.
      (1)   The grantee shall begin to offer cable service and any other
service authorized by the franchise no later than the date specified in the
franchise.
      (2)   A grantee shall provide a detailed construction plan, including an
estimated progress schedule, area construction or reconstruction maps, a system
testing plan and projected dates for offering service to subscribers.
      (3)   A grantee shall remove or relocate, at the request of the grantor
and without expense to the grantor, any facilities installed, used and
maintained under any franchise if and when made necessary by any lawful change
of grade, alignment or width of any public street, way, alley or place,
including the construction of any subway or viaduct by the grantor.
      (4)   The City Engineer shall be authorized to direct a grantee to locate
any conduits and appurtenances as may be reasonably necessary to avoid sewers,
waterpipes, conduits or other structures lawfully in or under the streets; and
before the work of constructing any pipes and appurtenances is commenced, the
grantee shall file with said engineer plans showing the location thereof, which
shall be subject to the approval of said engineer; and all such construction
shall be subject to the inspection of said engineer and done to their
reasonable satisfaction. All street coverings or openings of traps, vaults and
manholes shall, at all times, be kept flush with the surface of the streets;
provided, however, that vents for underground traps, vaults and manholes may
extend above the surface of the streets when said vents are located in
parkways, between the curb and property lines. All above-ground facilities,
including, but not limited to, pedestals, nodes and boxes, shall only be placed
in those locations specified by the City Engineer. Installations shall not
interfere with pedestrian and traffic flow and shall be consistent with the
requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101
et seq.
      (5)   If any portion of any street shall be damaged by reason of defects
in any of the conduits and appurtenances maintained or constructed pursuant to
a franchise, or by reason of any other cause arising from the operation or
existence of any pipes and appurtenances constructed or maintained under any
other grant, said grantee shall, at its own cost and expense, immediately
repair any such damage and restore such street, or portion of street, to as
good condition as existed before such defect or other cause of damage occurred,
such work to be done under the direction of the City Engineer, and to their
satisfaction.
      (6)   A grantee shall guarantee the integrity, durability and structural
integrity of any street cut repairs necessary for the installation or repair of
the grantee’s facilities for the life of the street. The grantee shall repair
or replace, at no expense to the city, any failed street cut completed by the
grantee or grantee’s subcontractor, as determined by the City Engineer.
   (E)   Geographical coverage. A grantee shall construct the cable system so
that it is capable of providing cable service to every residential dwelling
unit and other structures specified in the franchise within the franchise
service area. A grantee shall take reasonable steps to accommodate future
annexations to the franchise service area (as defined and provided by the
franchise), with any exceptions requiring specific grantor approval. Service
shall be provided to subscribers in accordance with the schedules specified in
the franchise. The route of separate cables serving institutional subscribers
shall be as approved by the grantor and specified in the franchise.
   (F)   Construction default. Upon the failure, refusal or neglect of the
grantee to cause any construction, repair or the terms of any construction
permit, or other necessary work to comply with the terms of the franchise,
thereby creating an adverse impact upon public safety, the grantor may (but
shall not be required to) cause such work to be completed in whole or in part,
and upon so doing shall submit to the grantee an itemized statement of costs.
The grantee shall be given reasonable advance notice of the grantor’s intent to
exercise this power, and 15 days to cure the default. The grantee shall, within
30 days of billing, pay to the grantor the actual costs incurred.
   (G)   Vacation or abandonment. In the event any street, alley, public
highway or portion thereof used by a grantee shall be vacated by the grantor,
or the use thereof discontinued by a grantee, upon written notice, a grantee
shall forthwith remove its facilities therefrom, unless specifically permitted
to continue the same. On the removal thereof, the grantee shall restore, repair
or reconstruct the area where such removal has occurred, to such condition as
may be required by the grantor. In the event of any failure, neglect or refusal
of a grantee, after 30 days’ notice by the grantor, to do such work, the
grantor may cause it to be done, and the grantee shall, within 30 days of
billing, pay to the grantor the actual costs incurred.
   (H)   Abandonment in place. The grantor may, upon written application by the
grantee, approve the abandonment of any property in place by the grantee, under
such terms and conditions as the grantor may approve. Upon grantor-approved
abandonment of any property in place, the grantee shall cause to be executed,
acknowledged and delivered to the grantor such instruments as the grantor shall
prescribe and approve, transferring and conveying the ownership of such
property to the grantor.
   (I)   Removal of system facilities. In the event that the grantee’s plant is
deactivated for a continuous period of 30 days, without prior written notice to
and approval by the grantor, then the grantee shall, at the grantor’s option
and demand, and at the sole expense of the grantee, promptly remove from any
streets or other areas all property of the grantee. The grantee shall promptly
restore the streets or other areas from which such property has been removed to
its condition existing prior to the grantee’s use thereof; provided that the
grantee shall not be required to remove conduit from underground, where the
grantor has determined that no damage to the surface of any structures will
result from such nonremoval.
   (J)   Movement of facilities. In the event it is necessary, at the grantor’s
discretion, to temporarily move or remove any of a grantee’s property for a
public purpose, the grantee, upon reasonable notice, shall move, at the expense
of the grantee, its property as may be required to facilitate such public
purpose. No such movement shall be deemed a taking of the grantee’s property.
Nothing herein shall limit the right of the grantee to seek reimbursement from
any party other than the grantor.
   (K)   Undergrounding of cable. Cables shall be installed underground at the
grantee’s cost. Previously installed aerial cable shall be installed
underground at the grantee’s pro rata cost in concert with other utilities,
when those other utilities convert from aerial to underground construction.
   (L)   Facility agreements. No franchise shall relieve the grantee of any
obligations involved in obtaining pole or conduit space from any department of
the grantor, any utility company or from other maintaining utilities in the
grantor’s streets.
   (M)   Extension of franchise service area. If the grantor elects to grant
one or more franchises hereunder, and if thereafter one or more of the
franchises expires or is otherwise terminated, the grantor may, if it so
elects, require a remaining grantee, or more than one, to extend its system to
provide service to the franchise service area previously served under the
terminated franchise, unless the grantee demonstrates to the grantor’s
reasonable satisfaction that it is not commercially practicable to do so. The
terms and requirements of such extension shall not exceed those contained in
this chapter or in the grantee’s franchise.
   (N)   Repair of streets and public ways. The grantee shall not cut, trench
or excavate any street which has been constructed or overlaid for five years or
slurry-sealed for two years from said construction, overlay or slurry-seal, as
the case may be, without the advance written permission of the City Engineer.
The City Engineer’s consent shall be conditioned, among other things, upon a
requirement that the grantee overlay or slurry-seal, as determined by the City
Engineer, the entire width of the affected street for the entire length of the
project. Any and all streets and public ways, and improvements located within
such streets and public ways, disturbed or damaged by a grantee or its
contractors during the construction, operation, maintenance or reconstruction
of the system, shall be restored at the grantee’s expense, and within the time
frame and limits specified by the grantor, to their original condition unless
otherwise authorized in writing by the grantor. The grantee may be required
subsequent to completion of construction from time to time, as determined by
the City Engineer, to overlay or slurry-seal the affected street in order to
maintain the structural integrity and/or aesthetics of the street. All
decorative sidewalks (pavers, tiles and the like) shall be replaced in like
kind pursuant to the written direction of the City Engineer.
   (O)   Erection of poles prohibited. The grantee shall not erect any pole on
or along any street or public way. If additional poles in an existing aerial
route are required, the grantee shall negotiate with the public utility for
their installation. Any such installation shall require the advance written
approval of the grantor. Subject to applicable federal and state law, a grantee
shall negotiate the lease of pole space and facilities from the existing pole
owners for all aerial construction, under mutually acceptable terms and
conditions.
   (P)   Reservation of street rights. Nothing in a franchise shall prevent the
grantor from constructing, repairing or altering any public work. All such work
shall be done, insofar as practicable, in such manner as not to unnecessarily
obstruct, injure or prevent the free use and operation of any property of the
grantee. However, if any property of the grantee shall interfere with the
construction, maintenance or repair of any public improvement, that property
shall be removed or replaced in such manner as directed by the grantor so that
the same shall not interfere with the public work, and such removal or
replacement shall be at the expense of a grantee.
   (Q)   No interference. The grantee shall not place equipment where it will
interfere with existing and future uses of the streets, public right-of-way or
public property, with the rights of private property owners, with gas, electric
or telephone fixtures, with water hydrants or mains, with wastewater stations,
with any traffic control system or any other service or facility that benefits
the grantor’s or its resident’s health, safety or welfare.
   (R)   Protection of streets. The grantee, at its own expense and in a manner
as directed by the City Engineer, shall protect streets and public rights-of-
way, easements and support or temporarily disconnect or relocate at its sole
cost in the same street or other street or public right-of-way, any property of
such grantee when necessitated by reason of:
      (1)   Traffic conditions;
      (2)   Public safety;
      (3)   Temporary or permanent street closing;
      (4)   Street construction or resurfacing;
      (5)   A change or establishment of street grade;
      (6)   Installation of sewers, drains, water pipes, storm drains, lift
stations, force mains, power or signal lines and any traffic control system; or
      (7)   Any improvement, construction or repair or any improvement related
to the grantor’s residents’ health, safety or welfare.
   (S)   Marking of facilities. It shall be the responsibility of a grantee to
locate and mark or otherwise visibly indicate and alert others to the location
of its underground cable before employees, agents or independent constructors
of any entity perform work in the marked-off area. A grantee shall participate
in and adhere to the practices of underground services alert (USA) and provide
at least 48 hours’ prior notice to USA prior to any excavation.
   (T)   Construction standards.
      (1)   All construction, installation, maintenance and repair shall treat
the aesthetics of the property as a priority; shall not substantially affect
the appearance or the integrity of the structure; and shall not be installed on
private property without the property owner’s permission subject to § 621 of
the Cable Act, being 47 U.S.C. § 541.
      (2)   All underground drops shall follow (to the greatest extent
possible) property lines, and cross property only at right angles, unless
otherwise permitted by the property owner, or required due to the physical
characteristics of the subsurface, or required under applicable law. The
grantor may, either by way of a generally applicable resolution or through the
imposition of routing conditions in any franchise determine the routing or
placement of cable, conduit, nodes, pedestals, power supplies, vaults and other
equipment relating to the system.
      (3)   All construction shall be accomplished between the hours specified
by the grantor in the approved permit or ordinances.
   (U)   Payment of fees.
      (1)   The grantee shall obtain, at its own expense, all permits and
licenses required by local law, rule, regulation or applicable ordinance.
      (2)   As a condition of obtaining all necessary permits and licenses, the
grantee shall pay all applicable permit fees and, in addition, all of the
grantor’s direct labor and supervisory costs, including customary and
reasonable overhead (the “labor payment”). The City Council may from time to
time, by resolution, establish the amount of said permit fees. To the extent
not inconsistent with applicable law, the permit fees shall be sufficient to
reimburse the grantor for its costs, including the costs of staff, independent
consultants and related overhead; to review the proposed project, processing
permits, plan check, inspecting the project including the costs of an outside
inspector and, where applicable, the costs of an outside soils engineer or
compaction testing expert, and the costs of any required testing to ensure that
the construction adheres to standards of this chapter, any franchise, any
permit and any other requirement of the grantor.
      (3)   Both the grantee and grantor may hire contractors, at the grantee’s
sole expense, to carry out any work under this chapter. The grantee shall make
payment within ten days of billing from the grantor. The grantee shall be
responsible for any damage caused by the construction, including, but not
limited to, damage to the public right-of-way, private property, streets,
existing utilities, curbs, gutters and sidewalks. The grantee shall pay the
grantor any costs incurred as a result of such damages, including repairs made
by the grantor, except for costs incurred as a result of the grantor’s sole
negligence or its employees’ and agents’ sole negligence. The grantee shall
complete restoration of or repairs to any damage caused by the construction
within ten days from the date of written notice from the grantor.
      (4)   In lieu of the inspection portion of the labor payment or permit
fees described above, at the grantor’s sole option, the grantor may require the
grantee at the grantee’s sole expense, to hire a consultant, who is acceptable
to and under the supervision of the grantor to inspect the installation of the
facilities on behalf of the grantor, or provide other services as mutually
agreed to by the parties.
   (V)   Progress of the construction. The grantee, with the grantor’s
assistance, shall develop a construction schedule and submit it to the grantor
at least 90 days prior to the start of work. Prior to the underground
construction of any of the facilities or the installation of any of the nodes
or power supplies, unless otherwise agreed to, the grantee shall furnish
detailed plans of the proposed construction and changes thereto to the grantor.
The proposed node sites must be approved by the grantor prior to construction
of the underground plant. Depending on health and safety issues, and input from
residents, the grantor, at its sole discretion, may require proposed node sites
to be relocated by the grantee. In the installation of the facilities, nodes or
power supplies, the grantee shall comply with the grantor’s standard
construction requirements relating to telephone facilities and other comparable
utility installations.
   (W)   Construction notification.
      (1)   Construction plan. Unless otherwise governed by the grantor’s
construction regulations and ordinances, at least 180 days prior to any
construction, and from time to time thereafter, the grantee shall file with the
City Engineer or other designated employees of the city, a general construction
plan describing in detail the facilities construction plans, areas to be served
and an estimated time schedule for such construction, the grantee reserves the
right to modify or change its construction plans at any time in its sole
discretion; provided the grantee provides written notice to the grantor. Any
modifications to construction plans must be reviewed and approved by the
grantor before modifications can be implemented by the grantee.
      (2)   Notice to the grantor. The grantor shall have 30 days following
receipt of the construction plan, or changes thereto, to approve or disapprove
the construction plan.
      (3)   Notice to other providers. The grantee shall provide the grantor
with general engineering base maps identifying existing underground and aerial
utility routes, streets, parcels, poles and construction needs, including
points of connections for existing residences, potential trench routes and
potential locations for nodes, amplifiers and taps at least four months in
advance of any underground construction, unless otherwise agreed to, which may
be reviewed in advance by any interested party for the purpose of reducing the
impact on the grantor’s infrastructure and for the public’s convenience and
shall be approved or disapproved by the grantor within 60 days of receipt.
      (4)   Traffic control plans. The grantee shall furnish detailed traffic
control plans, which shall include site-specific hours of construction, to the
City Engineer no later than 30 days prior to the commencement of any
construction activities which may affect or impact traffic (the “traffic
control plan”). The City Engineer shall provide comments, if any, to the
grantee within ten business days of receipt. The City Engineer may specify and
limit hours of construction in order to avoid traffic congestion during peak
periods. No construction related activities may be conducted in the public
right-of-way without an approved traffic control plan.
      (5)   Telephone contact. During construction, the grantee shall provide
the grantor a telephone contact number, and staff it during regular business
hours, to enable the grantor to report any concerns regarding construction of
the facilities. After business hours such calls will be routed to an on-call
supervisor. In the event that the grantor reports any concerns to the grantee,
the grantee shall respond in a timely manner. The grantee shall correct within
two business days any adverse impact to the grantor’s use or operations or the
use or operations of a third-party caused by the grantee’s construction
activities in the public right-of-way at no cost to the grantor.
      (6)   Daily notice. Every working day during construction, the grantee
shall notify the designated grantor staff member of the location of that next
day’s construction activities. The number of concurrent construction locations
may be limited by the grantor.
      (7)   Project overview. No later than 150 days prior to commencement of
construction, the grantee shall file with the City Manager or other designated
employee of the grantor a project overview, which shall contain an assessment
of the operation of the nodes and power supplies, including, without
limitation, a noise study prepared by a licensed engineer approved by the
grantor documenting noise generated from the nodes. Once the project has been
satisfactorily defined by the grantee as determined by the grantor, the grantor
will conduct and initial study to determine the appropriate level of
environmental review. The grantee will submit the final engineering plans to
the grantor for review and approval prior to the issuance of any permits.
      (8)   Public communication plans.
         (a)   1.   The grantee shall develop a public communication plan
(communication plan) and submit it to the grantor for the grantor’s review at
least 120 days prior to commencement of construction. The grantor shall approve
or disapprove the communication plan within 30 business days of its receipt.
            2.   The communication plan shall including the following:
               a.   A written notification of property owners adjacent to
nodes, power supplies, amplifiers and taps not less than 60 days prior to the
installation indicating the proposed location, a photograph of all above-ground
or below-ground pedestals and other visible equipment from which their size
must be apparent, and a detailed description of the equipment included within
the node including: the electronic components, natural gas generator,
electrical fans and the anticipated noise levels during winter and summer
months and emergency backup operations. The grantee will provide its non-toll
telephone number and a telephone number of the grantor which may be called if
the property owner is concerned about the installation;
               b.   A mailing to all residents in a construction area 30 days
in advance of construction activity;
               c.   The hanging of door hangers on all residences in the
construction area seven days prior to immediate construction activity; and
               d.   A second written notice to the adjacent property owner(s)
not less than 15 days prior to installation of such node, amplifiers and taps
which shall have the same information as set forth in division (W)(8)(a)2.a.
above as well as the actual date of the installation of such node, amplifiers,
power supplies and taps.
         (b)   The grantee shall furnish the grantor with the specific
locations of the nodes, amplifiers and power supplies at least 60 days in
advance of the installation of the nodes. The grantor shall provide notice to
property owners at the grantee’s expense. The grantee shall participate in any
public hearings or meetings scheduled by the grantor and shall be prepared to
answer questions concerning the grantee’s proposed construction of the
facilities. The grantee shall have available at such meetings visual aids as
appropriate, such as slides, maps and diagrams. The proposed node locations in
the city must be approved by the grantor prior to construction of the
underground cable plant. Depending upon health and safety issues, and input
from residents, the grantor, at its sole discretion, may require proposed node,
amplifiers and power supply sites be relocated by grantee.
      (9)   Maps and plans. The grantee shall maintain accurate maps and
improvement plans of the facilities, in a manner consistent with
telecommunications industry standards and which can be integrated into the
grantor’s geographic information system (GIS). The grantee shall furnish to the
grantor two complete sets of as-built construction drawings and a copy of the
drawings in AUTOCAD usable format within 60 days of completion of the
construction of the facilities. Maps and improvement drawings shall be
furnished to the grantor and other parties interested in performing work within
the public right-of-way, upon request, at no cost to the grantor. The grantee
shall pothole its facilities, at its expense, within 15 days of receipt of a
written request from the grantor, unless the grantee can certify, with an
associated indemnity approved by the City Attorney, the exact location and
depth of the facilities at the location where potholing is requested.
      (10)   Certification of completed facilities. The grantor shall provide
the grantee written notice of any street improvement project within the
grantor’s service area. Upon receipt of said written notice, the grantee shall
certify in writing to the grantor that its facilities located in the street
improvement project are complete and require no further construction for a
period of five years, other than maintenance, or the grantee shall apply for
all necessary permits and authorizations so that any necessary facilities will
be installed and completed prior to completion of the street improvement
project.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-8) (Ord. 2003-132, § 1, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 5-4-9 OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Customer service.
      (1)   A grantee shall maintain an office in the franchise service area,
or at such other location as is approved by the grantor in writing, or as
described in the franchise. That office must be open during all usual business
hours, but in no case less than 48 hours per week, including during at least
one weekend day per week. The grantor shall have a publicly listed, non-long-
distance-charge telephone number that is in operation to receive subscriber
complaints and requests on a 24-hour basis. Current information shall be
maintained of all complaints and their disposition, and a summary thereof shall
be submitted to the grantor.
      (2)   (a)   The grantee shall respond to requests as follows:
            1.   Within eight hours after receipt of a request for repairs
relating to a service interruption affecting at least 10% of the subscribers of
the system;
            2.   Within 24 hours after receipt of requests for service related
to all other service interruptions; and
            3.   Within 48 hours for all other complaints and requests for
repair.
         (b)   All cable system related problems shall be resolved within five
business days, unless technically infeasible. No charge shall be made to a
subscriber for such service or repairs, except that the grantee may charge for
service calls not related to its cable system, or that are caused by the
subscriber or members of its household, or the subscriber’s agents or guests.
      (3)   The grantee shall provide a telephone service system to receive all
construction and service complaints. A sufficient number of customer service
representatives shall be provided so that callers are not required to wait more
than 30 seconds before being connected to a customer service representative 90%
of the time, measured quarterly, or to receive busy signals more than 3% of the
time, measured quarterly. The telephone number of the local office shall be
listed in the telephone directory serving the city. The telephone service
system shall accept complaints 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The telephone
service system shall be capable of generating reports relating to answer times,
response times, hold times and abandoned calls.
      (4)   Customer service personnel shall identify themselves by first names
immediately.
      (5)   Customers shall have the right to speak with a supervisor, and if
none is available, a supervisor shall return the customer’s call within one
working day.
      (6)   All officers, agents or employees of the grantee, including its
contractors or subcontractors, who come into contact with members of the public
shall wear on their outer clothing a photo-identification card in a form
reasonably acceptable to grantor. The grantee shall account for all
identification cards at all times. Every vehicle of the grantee, or its major
subcontractors, shall be clearly identifiable as working for the grantee.
      (7)   The grantee shall provide subscribers with the option of scheduling
a four-hour period, either in the morning or afternoon, in which a service call
will be made.
      (8)   If a grantee representative is running late for an appointment with
a customer, or will not be able to keep the appointment as scheduled, the
customer will be contacted and the appointment will be rescheduled, as
necessary, at a time which is convenient for the customer. The customer has the
option of rescheduling the appointment within a specified two-hour period.
   (B)   Remedies for inadequate performance. Except for rebuild or planned
service interruptions for which the grantee receives prior approval from the
granter, in the event that one-third or more of its service to any subscriber
is interrupted for six consecutive hours, or for a total of 12 nonconsecutive
hours within any 30-day period, and the subscriber notifies the grantee of said
service interruption within 24 hours of the subscriber discovery thereof, the
grantee shall provide a 10% rebate of the monthly fees to affected subscribers
for each such consecutive six-hour or nonconsecutive 12-hour service
interruption period. The granter shall provide a 50% rebate of the monthly fees
to all affected subscribers for each failure to make a service call within the
specified four-hour period. In no case shall such rebate exceed the monthly fee
charged to the subscriber.
   (C)   Biennial audit of performance.
      (1)   The granter may require, at its option, that performance audits of
the system be conducted every two years by an independent technical consultant
selected and employed by the granter to verify that the system complies with
all technical standards and other specifications of the franchise.
      (2)   Upon completion of a performance audit, the granter and grantee
shall meet to review the performance of the cable system. The reports required
by this chapter regarding subscriber complaints, the records of performance
audits and tests and the opinion survey report shall be utilized as the basis
for review. In addition, any subscriber may submit complaints prior to or
during the review meetings, either orally or in writing, and these shall also
be considered.
      (3)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of the system performance
review meetings, the granter shall issue findings with respect to the adequacy
of system performance and quality of service. If areas of noncompliance are
found, the granter may direct grantee to correct the noncompliance within such
period of time as the granter determines is reasonable.
      (4)   Participation by the granter and the grantee in this process shall
not waive any rights they may possess under applicable federal or state law.
      (5)   In addition to the biennial audit described above, the granter may
conduct an annual audit of the same or lesser magnitude, at its sole expense,
when and if determined necessary or appropriate by the granter.
   (D)   System technical data. The grantee shall provide the granter with a
computer disk or other data storage device requested by the granter, in the
format approved by the granter, which details and documents all of the
grantee’s equipment and facilities and their geographic location in the city.
Such computer disk or other device shall be in a format specified by the city
and data shall be updated annually and whenever there have been significant
changes in the location of the grantee’s equipment and facilities. In addition,
the grantee shall maintain in its local office, a complete and up-to-date set
of as-built system maps upon completion of construction or reconstruction,
equipment specification and maintenance publications and signal level diagrams
for each active piece of electronic equipment in the system. As-built drawings
shall show all lines and installed equipment, and tap values and spigots. The
scale of maps and drawings shall be sufficient to show the required details in
easily readable form and size. Technical data at the local office shall also
include approved pole applications, detail and documentation of satellite and
microwave equipment, mobile radio units, heavy construction vehicles and
equipment and video and audio equipment normally used in the operation of the
system. If the granter requires use of technical data in its own offices, it
may make copies of any items at the grantor’s expense.
   (E)   Availability of technical data. All technical data reasonably
necessary to demonstrate a grantee’s compliance with FCC regulations and the
franchise shall be available for the grantor’s inspection during normal
business hours upon two business days’ notice. In the event of system failure
or other operating emergency, the technical data will be made available at any
time, so long as the provision of said data does not unreasonably interfere
with the grantee’s operations.
   (F)   Emergency repair capability. It shall be the grantee’s responsibility
to assure that its personnel, qualified to make repairs, are available at all
reasonable times and that they are supplied with keys, equipment location
instructions and technical information necessary to begin repairs upon
notification of the need to maintain or restore continuous service to the
system.
   (G)   Customer service standards and procedures.
      (1)   Information to customers.
         (a)   The grantee shall, at the time service is initiated, provide
each new subscriber with written information covering:
            1.   The time allowed to pay outstanding bills;
            2.   Grounds for termination of service;
            3.   The steps the grantee must take before terminating service;
            4.   How the customer can resolve billing disputes;
            5.   The steps necessary to have service reconnected after
involuntary termination;
            6.   The fact that customer service personnel must identify
themselves by first names immediately;
            7.   The fact that subscribers have the right to speak with a
supervisor, and if none is available, a supervisor shall return the
subscriber’s call within one working day; and
            8.   The appropriate regulatory authority with which to register a
compliant and how to contact that authority.
         (b)   In addition, at least once each calendar year, the grantee shall
notify each subscriber that information is available upon request concerning
divisions (G)(1)(a)1. through (G)(1)(a)8. above.
      (2)   Written notices. Written notice of all terms of the customer
agreement; the name, address and telephone number of the cable operator; all
equipment and fee options; the availability of A/B switches; the availability
of parental control devices; any reduced rates for seniors or other
subscribers; the telephone numbers for customer complaints; the telephone
number of the grantor, and other relevant information, shall be made by the
grantee to subscribers before service is commenced, at least once each calendar
year, at any time upon the request of the subscriber, and whenever changes to
such policies are made.
      (3)   Advance notice of changes. Except as otherwise provided by
applicable law, advance notice of increases in fees or charges, and changes in
channel lineup of stations or services, shall be sent to the grantor and to
subscribers at least 30 days before the changes are made, except for changes
not known sufficiently in advance by the grantee and not under the grantee’s
control, or where the grantor’s waiver is obtained. Notices must be clearly
identified and in print large enough to be easily readable.
      (4)   Billing.
         (a)   Billing frequency and format. Bills for service shall be
rendered monthly, unless service is rendered for a period less than one month.
All bills shall contain a telephone number and a mailing address for billing
inquiries or disputes and shall clearly delineate all changes and the basis for
those changes.
         (b)   Disputed bills.
            1.   In the event of a dispute between a subscriber and the grantee
regarding the bill, the grantee shall promptly make such investigation as is
required by the particular case and report the results to the subscriber. If
the dispute is not resolved to the satisfaction of both parties, the grantee
shall inform the subscriber of the grantee’s complaint procedures. If the
subscriber wishes to obtain the benefits of divisions (G)(4)(b)2. and (G)(4)
(b)3. below, notification of the disputed bill must be given by the subscriber
to the grantee in writing within 30 days after the bill date.
            2.   The subscriber shall not be required to pay the disputed
portion of the bill until the earlier of the following:
               a.   Resolution of the dispute; or
               b.   Expiration of the 45-day period beginning on the date of
the subscriber’s written notification; provided that the procedures established
in division (G)(4)(b)1. above have been followed.
      (5)   Suspension of collection efforts. Pending resolution of the billing
dispute, the grantee shall ensure that no termination notices are issued for
the disputed portions of the bill, and that no other collection procedures are
initiated for the disputed amount. Any such activity may be interpreted as an
attempt to avoid the provisions of these rules and may constitute a violation
of these rules.
      (6)   Referral of accounts to collection agencies.
         (a)   Uncollected accounts may be referred to private collection
agencies for appropriate action if the bill has not been paid by the earlier
of:
            1.   Thirty days following date of involuntary termination; or
            2.   The sixty-first day following the billing date of the original
uncollected amount; provided that no notification of a billing dispute has been
made.
         (b)   If the account was voluntarily terminated by the subscriber, for
any reason, the account may not be referred to a private collection agency
until at least 30 days following submission of the final bill. If notification
of a billing dispute is made, all collection procedures shall be delayed as
required in division (G)(4)(b) above. Referral to a collection agency shall
then occur no sooner than the ninety-first day following the billing date of
the original uncollected amount.
      (7)   Termination for nonpayment. Bills shall not be delinquent earlier
than 22 days from the date of the bill, which must be mailed to subscribers
within five working days prior to the stated due date. Subscribers must be
notified in writing of a proposed disconnection for non-payment at least 15
days prior to disconnection.
   (H)   Refund. When a subscriber voluntarily discontinues service, grantee
shall refund, within 20 days of the discontinuance of service, the unused
portion of any advance payments after deducting any charges currently due
through the date of such discontinuance. Unused payment portions shall be the
percentage of time for which the subscriber has paid for service and will not
receive it because of the subscriber’s discontinuation of service.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-9) (Ord. 2003-132, § 1, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 5-4-10 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Use of public streets. From and after the effective date of this
chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install or maintain
in any public place within the grantor’s territory, or upon any easement owned
or controlled by a public utility, or within any other public property of the
grantor, or within any privately-owned area within the grantor’s jurisdiction
which is not yet, but is designated as, a proposed public place on a tentative
subdivision map approved by the grantor, any equipment, facilities or system
for distributing signals or services through a cable television system, unless
a franchise has first been obtained hereunder, and is in full force and effect.
   (B)   Unauthorized connections. It shall be unlawful for any person to make
or use any unauthorized connection to, or to monitor, tap, receive or send any
signal or service via a franchised system, or to enable any person to receive
or use any service, television or radio signal, picture, program or sound, or
any other signal without payment to the owner of said system.
   (C)   Tampering with facilities. It shall be unlawful, without the consent
of the owner, to willfully attach to, tamper with, modify, remove or injure any
physical part of or signals on a franchised cable television system.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-10) (Ord. 2003-132, § 1, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 5-4-11 TERMINATION AND FORFEITURE.
   (A)   Revocation. Consistent with applicable law, and in addition to any
rights set out elsewhere in this chapter, the grantor reserves the right to
revoke a franchise, subject to the procedural guidelines set forth in §
5-4-14, in the event that:
      (1)   A grantee willfully or negligently, on a repeated basis, violates
any material provision of this chapter or its franchise; and
      (2)   A grantee’s construction schedule, as set forth in any franchise,
is materially delayed, and such delay is within the control of the grantee.
   (B)   Forfeiture. Upon failure of a grantee to comply with any material term
of this chapter or its franchise, the grantor may, subject to the procedural
guidelines set forth in §
5-4-14, declare a forfeiture. A grantee may be required to remove its
structures or property from the grantor’s streets and to restore those streets
to their prior condition within a reasonable period of time. Upon failure to do
so, the grantor may perform the work and collect all costs, including direct
and indirect costs, from a grantee. At the grantor’s discretion, the cost
thereof may be placed as a lien upon all plant, property or other assets of a
grantee.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-11) (Ord. 2003-132, § 1, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 5-4-12 FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applicants for a franchise shall submit to the grantor, or to its
designated representative, written application in a format provided by the
grantor, at the time and place specified by the grantor for accepting
applications, and accompanied by the designated application fee.
   (B)   A nonrefundable application fee, established by resolution of the
grantor, shall accompany the application to cover all costs associated with
processing the application, including, without limitation, costs of
administrative review, financial, legal and technical evaluation of the
applicant; the costs of consultants (including technical and legal experts),
notice and publication requirements; and document preparation expenses.
   (C)   In the event such costs exceed the application fee, the applicant
shall pay the difference to grantor within 20 days following receipt of an
itemized statement of such costs. This provision is procedural and shall not
constitute the grant of any right to a grantee.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-12) (Ord. 2003-132, § 1, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 5-4-13 RECORDS; REPORTS; RIGHT TO INSPECT AND AUDIT; EXPERTS.
   (A)   Grantee to provide records. All reports and records required under
this section shall be furnished at the sole expense of the grantee.
   (B)   Records. The grantor must maintain in its local offices, and make
available for inspection during normal business hours, a separate and complete
set of business records for the franchise. The grantee shall provide that
information in such form as may be required by the grantor, as well as copies
of any records of the grantee upon the grantor’s request, so long as said
information is, directly or indirectly, related to the scope of the grantor’s
rights under this chapter, the franchise or the grantor’s regulatory functions.
   (C)   Maintenance and inspection of records. The grantee shall keep true and
accurate books and records in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles, consistently applied, located in the franchise area that reasonably
demonstrate a grantee’s compliance with the obligations set forth in its
franchise. The grantor shall, upon two business days’ notice, have the right to
inspect said records and receive copies thereof to the extent said information
is reasonably related to the scope of the grantor’s rights under this chapter,
the franchise or the grantor’s regulatory functions. Any grantee records kept
at another place shall, within ten days of the grantor’s request, be made
available at the grantee’s local premises within the county.
   (D)   Reports of financial and operating activity.
      (1)   Written report. No later than 90 days after the close of the
grantee’s fiscal year, the grantee shall submit an audited written report to
the grantor which shall include:
         (a)   A financial report, audited and certified by a financial officer
of the grantee, for all cable system activity during the previous fiscal year,
including gross receipts from all sources and gross subscriber revenues from
each service. The report must set out separately all gross receipts from all
sources in the city and gross subscriber revenues from each service in the
city, and all payments, deductions and computations of franchise fees;
         (b)   A summary of the previous year’s activities, including, but not
limited to, subscriber totals and new services offered and system construction
activity;
         (c)   A current list of the grantee’s officers, directors and other
principals if there has been any change in the previous year;
         (d)   A list of stockholders or other equity investors holding 5% or
more of the voting interests in the grantee if there has been any change in the
previous year; and
         (e)   A summary of complaints received and remedial actions taken.
      (2)   Performance tests and compliance reports. No later than April 15 of
each year, the grantee shall provide a written report of any FCC or other
performance tests required or conducted. In addition, the grantee shall provide
reports of the test and compliance procedures required by its franchise, or by
this chapter no later than 30 days after the completion of those tests and
compliance procedures.
      (3)   Additional reports. The grantee shall prepare and furnish to the
grantor in writing, at the times and in the form prescribed by the grantor,
such additional reports or information as the grantor may reasonably require to
confirm and verify the grantee’s compliance with the provisions of its
franchise and this chapter.
   (E)   Examination of facilities. Upon two business days’ notice, and during
normal business hours, the grantee shall permit examination, by any duly
authorized representative of the grantor, of all franchise property and
facilities, together with any appurtenant property and facilities of the
grantee situated within the public right-of-way which are, directly or
indirectly, related to the cable system.
   (F)   Right to audit.
      (1)   In addition to any other inspection rights under this chapter or
the franchise, upon 30 days’ prior written notice, the grantor shall have the
right to inspect, examine or audit, during normal business hours, all documents
pertaining to a grantee or any affiliated person which are reasonably necessary
to ascertain a grantee’s compliance with its franchise or this chapter. The
grantor may not exercise said right more frequently than once in any 12-month
period. All such documents shall be made available at the local office of a
grantee. All such documents pertaining to financial matters which may be the
subject of an audit by the grantor as set forth herein shall be retained by a
grantee for a minimum of five years during the term of and following the
termination of a franchise. Access by the grantor to any of the documents
covered by this division (F) shall not be denied by the grantee on grounds that
such documents are alleged by the grantee to contain proprietary information.
      (2)   The grantor may require written certification by a grantee’s
directors, officers or other employees with respect to all documents referred
to in this division (F).
      (3)   Any audit conducted by the grantor pursuant to this division (F)
shall be conducted at the sole expense of the grantor, and the grantor shall
prepare a written report containing its findings, a copy of which shall be
mailed to a grantee; provided, however, that a grantee shall reimburse the
grantor for the expense of any such audit if, as a result of said audit, it is
determined that there is a shortfall of more than 2% in the amount of franchise
fees or other payments which have been made or will be made by a grantee to the
grantor pursuant to the terms of the franchise.
   (G)   Retention of experts.
      (1)   In the exercise of its rights under this chapter, the grantor shall
have the further right to retain technical experts and other consultants on a
periodic basis for the purpose of monitoring, testing and inspecting any
construction, operation, maintenance or reconstruction of the system, and all
parts thereof, or to ensure compliance with and enforcement of the provisions
of this chapter and the franchise.
      (2)   The grantor shall bear the cost of retaining such experts; provided
that the grantee shall reimburse the grantor for all expenses related to the
retention of said experts where this chapter or the franchise so provide, or
under either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   The grantee has initiated proceedings which would normally
require the grantor to retain such experts, such as the filing of a request for
approval of a transfer or change in control, renewal to the extent allowed by
law, expansion of the franchise service area or the modification or amendment
of the franchise; or
         (b)   The reports of such experts submitted to the grantor reveal that
the grantee has failed to substantially comply with the terms and conditions of
this chapter or of the franchise.
      (3)   If grantee is required to reimburse grantor pursuant to this
division (G), the grantor shall send the grantee an itemized description of
such charges, and the grantee shall pay such amount within 20 days after the
receipt of such description.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-13) (Ord. 2003-132, § 1, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 5-4-14 ENFORCEMENT MECHANISM.
   (A)   Notice and hearing for franchise default.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter or in the franchise,
prior to formal consideration by the grantor of termination, revocation or
forfeiture of the grantee’s franchise, or any other penalty or administrative
remedy available to the grantor, including liquidated damages, attributable to
the grantee’s failure, willful, negligent or otherwise, to adhere to the terms
and conditions of the franchise or this chapter, the grantor shall make written
demand on the grantee to correct the alleged default. Such written demand shall
identify with specificity the alleged default, including the provision of the
franchise, division or regulation that is being violated, and the necessary
action to cure the default. The grantor and grantee shall expeditiously meet to
discuss the alleged default, at which time the grantee shall indicate, in
writing, the amount of time necessary to resolve the alleged problem. Giving
due consideration to the grantee’s request, the grantor shall, in writing,
state the amount of time the grantor will allow the grantee to resolve the
problem. During this time period, but in no event less than ten days before the
final date for correction, the grantee may request additional time to correct
the problem, and the grantor shall grant said request if grantor determines, in
the exercise of its discretion, that such time is necessary due to delays
beyond the grantee’s control. If the default continues for a period of ten days
following the deadline for corrections, plus any extension thereof, a hearing
before the legislative body of the grantor shall be scheduled by the grantor on
such franchise termination, revocation, forfeiture or any other penalty or
administrative remedy.
      (2)   The grantor shall provide written notice of such hearing to a
grantee no less than ten days before the hearing on the matter. Within five
days after the receipt of said notice, the grantee shall file any written
objections to said notice. Any objections not raised within said five-day
periods shall be deemed waived. At the hearing, the grantor shall hear the
grantee, and any person interested in the manner, and shall determine, at that
or subsequent public meetings, an appropriate course of action for enforcement
or termination of the grantee’s franchise.
   (B)   Delegation of enforcement mechanisms. Such liquidated damages as the
grantor may assess against grantee pursuant to a grantee’s franchise which do
not include loss of the franchise may, at the grantor’s option, be determined
by an officer or agency of the grantor to which it may delegate such
administrative decisions, subject to due process and the criteria contained in
this chapter and the franchise, and subject to appeal to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-14) (Ord. 2003-132, § 1, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 5-4-15 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Captions. The section, division and paragraph numbers and letters, and
the captions throughout this chapter, are intended to facilitate reading and
reference. Such numbers, letters and captions shall not affect the meaning or
interpretation of any part of this chapter.
   (B)   Franchise references. A franchise which cites, refers to or otherwise
incorporates this chapter, or portions thereof, shall be deemed to be a
franchise issued under and subject to this chapter.
   (C)   Filing. When not otherwise specified in this chapter, all documents
required to be filed with the grantor shall be filed with the grantor’s
representative as designated by the grantor.
   (D)   Non-enforcement by the grantor. A grantee shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with all provisions of this chapter, and of its franchise,
and all laws and regulations, by reason of any failure of the grantor to demand
prompt compliance.
   (E)   Continuity of service. It is the right of all subscribers to receive
cable services so long as their financial and other obligations to a grantee
are honored. In the event that a grantee elects to rebuild, modify or sell the
system, a grantee shall use due diligence and reasonable care to ensure that
all subscribers receive continuous, uninterrupted service. In the event of a
transfer of the system by the grantee, the current grantee shall cooperate with
the grantor or new grantee to operate the system for a temporary period, in
order to maintain continuity of service to all subscribers. In the event that
the grantee, through its own fault, discontinues system-wide service for 72
continuous hours, and the grantee is in material default of its franchise, or
if the franchise is revoked by the grantor (but not if the grantor fails to
renew the franchise), the grantor may, by resolution, when it deems reasonable
cause to exist, assume operation of the system for the purpose of maintaining
continuity of the system may continue until the circumstances which, in the
judgment of the grantor, threaten the continuity of service are resolved to the
grantor’s satisfaction. The grantor shall be entitled to the revenues for any
period during which it operates the system.
   (F)   Operation by grantor. During any period when the system is being
operated by the grantor pursuant to division (E) above, the grantor shall, as
it may deem necessary, make any changes in any aspect of operations that, in
the grantor’s sole judgment, are required for the preservation of quality of
service and its continuity.
   (G)   Management by grantor. The grantor may, upon assuming operation of a
system franchised hereunder, appoint a manager to act for it in conducting the
system’s affairs. Such manager shall have such authority as may be delegated by
the grantor and shall be solely responsible to the grantor for management of
the system. The grantee shall reimburse the grantor for all its reasonable
costs, in excess of system revenues, incurred during the grantor’s operation if
the franchise is in full force and effect during the period of the grantor’s
operation.
   (H)   Notices. All notices and other communications to the grantee shall be
addressed to it at the local address at which the grantee conducts its business
or as otherwise set forth in the franchise. All notices and other
communications to the grantor shall be addressed to the City Manager, City of
Laguna Niguel, 30111 Crown Valley Parkway, Laguna Niguel, California 92677, or
other address as may be designated by grantor.
   (I)   Force majeure; grantee’s inability to perform. In the event the
grantee’s performance of any of the terms, conditions, obligations or
requirements of this chapter, or any franchise granted hereunder, is prevented
or impaired due to any cause beyond its reasonable control and not reasonably
foreseeable, such inability to perform shall be deemed to be excused, and no
penalties or sanctions shall be imposed as a result thereof. Such causes beyond
the grantee’s reasonable control and not reasonably foreseeable shall include,
but not be limited to, any acts of God, civil emergencies, labor unrest,
strikes, utility interruptions, inability to obtain access to an individual’s
property on reasonable terms and any inability of a grantee to secure all
required authorizations or permits to utilize necessary poles or conduits, so
long as grantee uses due diligence to timely obtain said authorizations or
permits.
   (J)   Application. All of the provisions of this chapter shall be applicable
to all cable operators and cable systems to the greatest extent permissible
under applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-15) (Ord. 2003-132, § 1, passed 10-21-2003)
***** CHAPTER 5: ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES *****
Section
Subchapter 1. General Provisions
5-5-1   Legislative purpose
5-5-2   Definitions
5-5-3   Permits required
5-5-4—5-5-10   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Application and Permits
5-5-11   Adult-oriented business regulatory permit required
5-5-12   Applications
5-5-13   Investigation and action on application
5-5-14   Permit denial
5-5-15   Expiration
5-5-16   Transfer of adult-oriented business regulatory permits
5-5-17   Adult-oriented business performer permit
5-5-18   Investigation and action on application
5-5-19   Suspension or revocation of adult-oriented business regulatory permits
and adult-oriented business performer permits
5-5-20   Appeal of denial, suspension or revocation
Subchapter 3. Facilities and Employees
5-5-21   Adult-oriented business development and performance standards
5-5-22   Register and permit number of employees
5-5-23   Display of permit and identification cards
5-5-24   Employment of and services rendered to persons under the age of 18
years prohibited
5-5-25—5-5-30   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Miscellaneous Provisions
5-5-31   Inspection
5-5-32   Regulations nonexclusive
5-5-33   Employment of persons without permits unlawful
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 5-5-1 LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate adult-oriented businesses in
order to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the citizens
of the city. The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect
of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including adult-oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent
nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to adult-
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of adult-oriented entertainment to their intended
market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or
legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 5-5-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS OPERATOR (hereinafter OPERATOR). A person who
supervises, manages, inspects, directs, organizes, controls or in any other way
is responsible for or in charge of the premises of an adult-oriented business
or the conduct of activities occurring on the premises thereof.
   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES. Any one of the following:
      (1)   ADULT ARCADE. An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, one or more still or motion picture projectors, or similar
machines, for viewing by five or fewer persons each, are used to show films,
computer generated images, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions 30% or more of the number of which are distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment that has 30% or more of its stock
in books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or of photographs,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, tapes, records or other form
of visual or audio representations which are distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities
and/or specified anatomical areas, or of adult-oriented merchandise;
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, restaurant or similar business
establishment which:
         (a)   Regularly features live performances which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis upon the display of specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities;
         (b)   Which regularly features persons who appear semi-nude; and/or
         (c)   Shows films, computer generated images, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions 30% or more of the number
of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (4)   ADULT HOTEL/MOTEL. A hotel or motel or similar business
establishment offering public accommodations for any form of consideration
which:
         (a)   Provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions,
films, computer generated images, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or
other photographic reproductions 30% or more of the number of which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and
         (b)   Rents, leases or lets any room for less than a six-hour period,
or rents, leases or lets any single room more than twice in a 24-hour period.
      (5)   ADULT MERCHANDISE STORE. An establishment for which 30% or more of
its merchandise is adult-oriented merchandise;
      (6)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business establishment where, for
any form of consideration, films, computer generated images, motion pictures,
video cassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions are shown, and
30% or more of the number of which are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas;
      (7)   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features live
performances which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities; or
      (8)   MODELING STUDIO. A business which provides, for pecuniary
compensation, monetary or other consideration, hire or reward, figure models
who, for the purposes of sexual stimulation of patrons, display “specified
anatomical areas” to be observed, sketched, photographed, painted, sculpted or
otherwise depicted by persons paying such consideration. MODELING STUDIO does
not include schools maintained pursuant to standards set by the California
Board of Education. MODELING STUDIO further does not include a studio or
similar facility owned, operated or maintained by an individual artist or group
of artists, and which does not provide, permit or make available SPECIFIED
SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
   ADULT-ORIENTED MERCHANDISE. Sexually-oriented implements, paraphernalia or
novelty items, such as, but not limited to: dildos, auto sucks, sexually-
oriented vibrators, benwa balls, inflatable orifices, anatomical balloons with
orifices, simulated and battery operated vaginas and similar sexually oriented
devices which are designed or marketed primarily for the stimulation of human
genital organs or sadomasochistic activity or distinguished or characterized by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to SPECIFIED SEXUAL
ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
   APPLICANT. A person who is required to file an application for a permit
under this chapter, including an individual owner, managing partner, officer of
a corporation or any other operator, manager, employee or agent of an adult-
oriented business.
   BAR. Any commercial establishment licensed by the California Department of
Alcoholic Beverage Control to serve any alcoholic beverages on the premises.
   DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN EMPHASIS UPON. The dominant or
essential theme of the object described by such phrase. For instance, when the
phrase refers to films “which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
upon” the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, the films so described are those whose dominant or
predominant character and theme are the depiction of the enumerated sexual
activities or anatomical areas. See Pringle v. City of Covina (1981) 115 Cal.
App. 3d 151.
   FIGURE MODEL. Any person who, for pecuniary compensation, consideration,
hire or reward, poses in a modeling studio to be observed, sketched, painted,
drawn, sculptured, photographed or otherwise depicted.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The health officer of the city or their duly authorized
representative.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, the
showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part
of the nipple or the showing of the covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OPERATE AN ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS. The supervising, managing, inspecting,
directing, organizing, controlling or in any way being responsible for or in
charge of the conduct of activities of an adult-oriented business or activities
within an adult-oriented business.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom an adult-oriented business permit is issued.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, association, joint
stock company, corporation or combination of the above in whatever form or
character.
   POLICE CHIEF. The Police Chief of the city or the authorized representatives
thereof.
   REGULARLY FEATURES. With respect to an adult theater or adult cabaret, means
a regular and substantial course of conduct. The fact that live performances
which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the display of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities occurs on two or more
occasions within a 30-day period; three or more occasions within a 60-day
period; or four or more occasions within a 180-day period, shall to the extent
permitted by law be deemed to be a regular and substantial course of conduct.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, buttocks, areola of the female breast, as well as
portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human:
         (a)   Genitals or pubic region;
         (b)   Buttocks; and
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; and
      (3)   Any device, costume or covering that simulates any of the body
parts included in divisions (1) or (2) above.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following, whether performed,
directly or indirectly, through clothing or other covering:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breast;
      (2)   Sex acts, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral
copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; and
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
other activities described in divisions (1) through (3) above.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 5-5-3 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on,
or to permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises
in the city, the operation of an adult-oriented business unless the person
first obtains and continues to maintain in full force and effect a permit from
the city as herein required (adult-oriented business regulatory permit).
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any persons to engage in or participate in
any live performance depicting specified anatomical areas or involving
specified sexual activities in an adult-oriented business unless the person
first obtains and continues in full force and effect a permit from the city as
herein required (adult-oriented business performer permit).
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
§§ 5-5-4—5-5-10 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. APPLICATION AND PERMITS ****
§ 5-5-11 ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS REGULATORY PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Every person who proposes to maintain, operate or conduct an adult-oriented
business in the city shall file an application with the Police Chief upon a
form provided by the city and shall pay a filing fee, as established by
resolution adopted by the City Council from time to time, which shall not be
refundable.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-11) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 5-5-12 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Adult-oriented business regulatory permits are nontransferable,
except in accordance with §
5-5-16.
      (2)   Therefore, all applications shall include the following
information.
         (a)   If the applicant is an individual, the individual shall state
their legal name, including any aliases, address and submit satisfactory
written proof that they are at least 18 years of age.
         (b)   If the applicant is a partnership, the partners shall state the
partnership’s complete name, address, the names of all partners, whether the
partnership is general or limited and attach a copy of the partnership
agreement, if any.
         (c)   If the applicant is a corporation, the corporation shall provide
its complete name, the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation
is in good standing under the laws of the state, the names and capacity of all
officers and directors, the name of the registered corporate agent and the
address of the registered office for service of process.
   (B)   If the applicant is an individual, they shall sign the application. If
the applicant is other than an individual, an officer of the business entity or
an individual with a 10% or greater interest in the business entity shall sign
the application.
   (C)   If the applicant intends to operate the adult-oriented business under
a name other than that of the applicant, the applicant shall file the
fictitious name of the adult-oriented business and show proof of registration
of the fictitious name.
   (D)   A description of the type of adult-oriented business for which the
permit is requested and the proposed address where the adult-oriented business
will operate, plus the names and addresses of the owners and lessors of the
adult-oriented business site.
   (E)   The address to which notice of action on the application is to be
mailed.
   (F)   The names of all employees, independent contractors and other persons
who will perform at the adult-oriented business, who are required by §
5-5-17 to obtain an adult-oriented business performer license (for ongoing
reporting requirements, see §
5-5-17).
   (G)   A sketch or diagram showing the interior configuration of the
premises, including a statement of the total floor area occupied by the adult-
oriented business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared,
but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the
interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
   (H)   A certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30 days prior
to application depicting the building and the portion thereof to be occupied by
the adult-oriented business, and:
      (1)   The property line of any other adult-oriented business within 1,000
feet of the primary entrance of the adult-oriented business for which a permit
is requested;
      (2)   The property lines of any church, school, park, within 1,000 feet
of the primary entrance of the adult-oriented business; and
      (3)   The property lines of any residential zone or use within 500 feet
of the primary entrance of the adult-oriented business.
   (I)   A diagram of the off-street parking areas and premises entries of the
adult-oriented business showing the location of the lighting system required by
§
5-5-21.
   (J)   If the Police Chief determines that the applicant has completed the
application improperly, the Police Chief shall promptly notify the applicant of
such fact and, on request of the applicant, grant the applicant an extension of
time of ten days or less to complete the application properly. In addition, the
applicant may request an extension, not to exceed ten days, of the time for the
Police Chief to act on the application. The time period for granting or denying
a permit shall be stayed during the period in which the applicant is granted an
extension of time.
   (K)   The fact that an applicant possesses other types of state or city
permits or licenses does not exempt the applicant from the requirement of
obtaining an adult-oriented business regulatory permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-12) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 5-5-13 INVESTIGATION AND ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a completed application and payment of the application
and permit fees, the Police Chief shall immediately stamp the application as
received and promptly investigate the information contained in the application
to determine whether the applicant shall be issued an adult-oriented business
regulatory permit.
   (B)   Within 60 days of receipt of the completed application, the Police
Chief and the Community Development Department shall complete the investigation
of the application in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and the
Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the application in
accordance with the procedures set forth in §§
9-1-112 et seq.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall grant the application and issue the
adult-oriented business regulatory permit upon finding that the proposed
business meets the locational criteria of §
9-1-54.4, and that the applicant has met all of the development and performance
standards and requirements of §
5-5-21, unless the requirements of §
5-5-14 are not met, in which case the application shall be denied.
   (D)   (1)   The Police Chief shall notify the applicant as follows.
         (a)   The Police Chief shall write or stamp “granted” or “denied” on
the application and date and sign such notation.
         (b)   If the application is denied, the Police Chief shall attach to
the application a statement of the reasons for denial.
         (c)   If the application is granted, the Police Chief shall attach to
the application an adult-oriented business regulatory permit.
         (d)   The application as granted or denied and the permit, if any,
shall be placed in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid,
addressed to the applicant at the address stated in the application.
      (2)   The permittee shall post the permit conspicuously in the adult-
oriented business premises.
   (E)   If the Planning Commission grants the application or if the Planning
Commission neither grants nor denies the application within 60 days after it is
stamped as received (except as provided in §
5-5-12(J), the applicant may begin operating the adult-oriented business for
which the permit was sought, subject to strict compliance with the development
and performance standards and requirements of §
5-5-21, unless the grant of the application or the approval of the application
by the failure to act is appealed to the City Council as provided for in §
5-5-20.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-13) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 5-5-14 PERMIT DENIAL.
   The Planning Commission shall deny the application if any of the following
conditions exist:
   (A)   The building, structure, equipment or location used by the business
for which an adult-oriented business regulatory permit is required do not
comply with the requirements and standards of the health, zoning, fire and
safety laws of the city and the state, or with the locational or development
and performance standards and requirements for adult oriented businesses
contained in this code;
   (B)   The applicant, their employee, agent, partner, director, officer,
shareholder or manager has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of material fact in the application for an adult-oriented business
regulatory permit;
   (C)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
   (D)   The required application fee has not been paid;
   (E)   Within the past three years, the applicant has been convicted of any
of the following offenses: one or more violations of California Penal Code, §§
315, 316, 318, 266a, 266b, 266c, 266e, 266g, 266h, 266i, 647(a), 647(b) and 647
(d); any equivalent violation of the code of another state; or the applicant
has had an adult-oriented business regulatory permit revoked by this city or
any other governmental entity within the past three years; and
   (F)   The adult-oriented business does not comply with the locational
requirements of §
9-1-54.4.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-14) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 5-5-15 EXPIRATION.
   Each adult-oriented business regulatory permit shall expire one year from
the date of issuance, and may be renewed only by filing with the Police Chief a
written request for renewal, accompanied by the annual permit fee and a copy of
the permit to be renewed. The request for renewal shall be made at least 30
days before the expiration date of the permit. When made less than 30 days
before the expiration date, the expiration of the permit will not be stayed.
Applications for renewal shall be acted on as provided in this chapter for
action upon applications for permits.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-15) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 5-5-16 TRANSFER OF ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS REGULATORY PERMITS.
   (A)   A permittee shall not operate an adult-oriented business under the
authority of an adult-oriented business regulatory permit at any place other
than the address of the adult-oriented business stated in the application for
the permit.
   (B)   A permittee shall not transfer ownership or control of an adult-
oriented business or transfer an adult-oriented business regulatory permit to
another person unless and until the transferee obtains an amendment to the
permit from the Police Chief stating that the transferee is now the permittee.
Such an amendment may be obtained only if the transferee files an application
with the Police Chief in accordance with §§
5-5-11 and-
5-5-12, accompanies the application with a transfer fee in an amount set by
resolution of the City Council and the Police Chief determines in accordance
with §
5-5-13 that the transferee would be entitled to the issuance of an original
permit.
   (C)   No permit may be transferred when the Police Chief has notified the
permittee that the permit has been or may be suspended or revoked.
   (D)   Any attempt to transfer a permit, either directly or indirectly, in
violation of this section is hereby declared void, and the permit shall be
deemed revoked.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-16) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 5-5-17 ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS PERFORMER PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall engage in or participate in any live performance
depicting specified anatomical areas or involving specified sexual activities
in an adult-oriented business, without a valid adult-oriented business
performer permit issued by the city. All persons who have been issued an adult-
oriented business regulatory permit shall promptly supplement the information
provided as part of the application for the permit required by §
5-5-11, with the names of all performers required to obtain an adult-oriented
business performer permit, within 30 days of any change in the information
originally submitted. Failure to submit such changes shall be grounds for
suspension of the adult-oriented business regulatory permit.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall grant, deny and renew adult-oriented business
employee permits.
   (C)   The application for a permit shall be made on a form provided by the
Police Chief. An original and two copies of the completed and sworn permit
application shall be filed with the Police Chief.
   (D)   The completed application shall contain the following information and
be accompanied by the following documents:
      (1)   The applicant’s legal name and any other names (including “stage
names” and aliases) used by the applicant;
      (2)   Age, date and place of birth;
      (3)   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      (4)   Present residence address and telephone number;
      (5)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of:
         (a)   Any of the offenses set forth in California Penal Code, §§ 315,
316, 266a, 266b, 266c, 266e, 266g, 266h, 266i, 647(a), 647(b) and 647(d) as
those sections now exist or may hereafter be amended or renumbered; and
         (b)   The equivalent of the aforesaid offenses outside the state.
      (6)   Whether such person is or has ever been licensed or registered as a
prostitute, or otherwise authorized by the laws of any other jurisdiction to
engage in prostitution in such other jurisdiction. If any person mentioned in
this division (D)(6) has ever been licensed or registered as a prostitute, or
otherwise authorized by the laws of any other state to engage in prostitution,
a statement shall be submitted giving the place of such registration, licensing
or legal authorization, and the inclusive dates during which such person was so
licensed, registered or authorized to engage in prostitution;
      (7)   State driver’s license or identification number;
      (8)   Satisfactory written proof that the applicant is at least 18 years
of age;
      (9)   The applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the Police
Department, and a color photograph clearly showing the applicant’s face. Any
fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant; and
      (10)   If the application is made for the purpose of renewing a license,
the applicant shall attach a copy of the license to be renewed.
   (E)   The completed application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable
application fee. The amount of the fee shall be set by resolution of the City
Council.
   (F)   Upon receipt of an application and payment of the application fees,
the Police Chief shall immediately stamp the application as received and
promptly investigate the application.
   (G)   If the Police Chief determines that the applicant has completed the
application improperly, the Police Chief shall promptly notify the applicant of
such fact and grant the applicant an extension of time of not more than ten
days to complete the application properly. In addition, the applicant may
request an extension, not to exceed ten days, of the time for the Police Chief
to act on the application. The time period for granting or denying a permit
shall be stayed during the period in which the applicant is granted an
extension of time.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-17) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 5-5-18 INVESTIGATION AND ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   Within five days after receipt of the properly completed application,
the Police Chief shall grant or deny the application and so notify the
applicant as follows.
      (1)   The Police Chief shall write or stamp “granted” or “denied” on the
application and date and sign such notation.
      (2)   If the application is denied, the Police Chief shall attach to the
application a statement of the reasons for denial.
      (3)   If the application is granted, the Police Chief shall attach to the
application an adult-oriented business regulatory permit.
      (4)   The application is granted or denied and the permit, if any, shall
be placed in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid, addressed to
the applicant at the address stated in the application.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall grant the application and issue the permit,
unless the application is denied for one or more of the reasons set forth in
division (D) below.
   (C)   If the Police Chief grants the application or if the Police Chief
neither grants nor denies the application within five days after it is stamped
as received (except as provided in §
5-5-17(G), the applicant may begin performing in the capacity for which the
license was sought.
   (D)   The Police Chief shall deny the application for any of the following
reasons:
      (1)   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading or
fraudulent statement of a material fact in the application for a permit or in
any report or document required to be filed with the application;
      (2)   The applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (3)   The adult-oriented business employee permit is to be used for
performing in a business prohibited by state or city law;
      (4)   The applicant has been registered in any state as a prostitute; and
      (5)   The applicant has been convicted of any of the offenses enumerated
in §
5-5-17(D)(5) or convicted of an offense outside the state that would have
constituted any of the described offenses if committed within the state. A
permit may be issued to any person convicted of the described crimes if the
conviction occurred more than five years prior to the date of the application.
   (E)   (1)   Each adult-oriented business performer permit shall expire one
year from the date of issuance, and may be renewed only by filing with the
Police Chief a written request for renewal, accompanied by the application fee
and a copy of the permit to be renewed.
      (2)   The request for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date of the permit.
      (3)   When made less than 30 days before the expiration date, the
expiration of the permit will not be stayed. Applications for renewal shall be
acted on as provided herein for applications for permits.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-18) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 5-5-19 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS REGULATORY PERMITS
AND ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS PERFORMER PERMITS.
   An adult-oriented business regulatory permit or adult-oriented business
employee permit may be suspended or revoked in accordance with the procedures
and standards of this section.
   (A)   On determining that grounds for permit revocation exist, the Police
Chief shall furnish written notice of the proposed suspension or revocation to
the permittee. Such notice shall set forth the time and place of a hearing, and
the ground or grounds upon which the hearing is based, the pertinent code
sections and a brief statement of the factual matters in support thereof. The
notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, addressed to the last known address of
the permittee, or shall be delivered to the permittee personally, at least ten
days prior to the hearing date. Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with
procedures established by the Police Chief, but at a minimum shall include the
following:
“All parties involved shall have a right to offer testimonial, documentary, and
tangible evidence bearing on the issues; may be represented by counsel; and
shall have the right to confront and cross-examine witnesses. Any relevant
evidence may be admitted that is the sort of evidence upon which reasonable
persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs. Any hearing
under this section may be continued for a reasonable time for the convenience
of a party or a witness. The police chiefs decision may be appealed in
accordance with section
5-5-20.”
   (B)   A permittee may be subject to suspension or revocation of their
permit, or be subject to other appropriate disciplinary action, for any of the
following causes arising from the acts or omissions of the permittee, or an
employee, agent, partner, director, stockholder or manager of an adult-oriented
business:
      (1)   The permittee has knowingly made any false, misleading or
fraudulent statement of material facts in the application for a permit, or in
any report or record required to be filed with the city;
      (2)   The permittee, employee, agent, partner, director, stockholder or
manager of an adult-oriented business has knowingly allowed or permitted, and
has failed to make a reasonable effort to prevent the occurrence of any of the
following on the premises of the adult-oriented business, or in the case of an
adult-oriented business performer, the permittee has engaged in one of the
activities described below while on the premises of an adult-oriented business:
         (a)   Any act of unlawful sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation
or masturbation;
         (b)   Use of the establishment as a place where unlawful solicitations
for sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation or masturbation openly occur;
         (c)   Any conduct constituting a criminal offense which requires
registration under California Penal Code, § 290;
         (d)   The occurrence of acts of lewdness, assignation or prostitution,
including any conduct constituting violations of California Penal Code, §§ 315,
316, 318 or 647(b);
         (e)   Any act constituting a violation of provisions in the California
Penal Code relating to obscene matter or distribution of harmful matter to
minors, including, but not limited to, §§ 311 through 313.4; and
         (f)   Any conduct prohibited by this chapter.
      (3)   Failure to abide by a disciplinary action previously imposed by an
appropriate city official.
   (C)   After holding the hearing in accordance with the provisions of this
section, if the Police Chief finds and determines that there are grounds for
disciplinary action, based upon the severity of the violation, the Police Chief
shall impose one of the following:
      (1)   A warning;
      (2)   Suspension of the permit for a specified period not to exceed six
months; and
      (3)   Revocation of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-19) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 5-5-20 APPEAL OF DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   After approval or denial of an application for an adult-oriented
business regulatory permit, or after approval or denial of the renewal of such
a permit, or after suspension or revocation of such a permit, the applicant,
person to whom the permit was granted or any other interested person, may seek
review of such administrative action by the City Council in accordance with the
procedures set forth in §§
9-1-112 et seq.
   (B)   After denial of an application for an adult-oriented business
performer permit, or after denial of renewal of such permit, or after
suspension or revocation of such a permit, the applicant, or person to whom the
permit was granted, may seek review of such an administrative action by the
City Council in accordance with the provisions of §§
2-2-8 through
2-2-11.
   (C)   After action has been taken to approve, deny, suspend or revoke a
permit pursuant to this section, the applicant, permittee or other interested
person may seek prompt judicial review of such administrative action pursuant
to California Code of Civil Procedure, § 1094.5. The city shall make all
reasonable efforts to expedite such judicial review.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-20) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. FACILITIES AND EMPLOYEES ****
§ 5-5-21 ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Maximum occupancy load, fire exits, aisles and fire equipment shall be
regulated, designed and provided in accordance with the fire protection and
building and safety regulations and standards adopted by the County Fire
Authority and the city.
   (B)   Adult-oriented businesses shall comply with the building and safety
regulations contained in Title 8, the sign regulations contained in §§
9-1-70 et seq. and the off-street parking regulations contained in §§
9-1-60 et seq. Signage shall conform to the standards of this code, except that
such signs shall contain no suggestive or graphic language, photographs,
silhouettes, drawings, statutes, monuments, sign shapes or sign projections, or
other graphic representations which depict the human body or anatomy, or any
portion thereof, whether clothed or unclothed, including without limitation
representations that depict “specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual
activities”.
   (C)   No adult-oriented business shall be operated in any manner that
permits the observation of any material or activities depicting, describing or
relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” from
any public way or from any location outside the building or area of such
establishment. This provision shall apply to any display, decoration, sign,
show window or other opening. No exterior door or window on the premises shall
be propped or kept open at any time while the business is open, and any
exterior windows shall be covered with opaque covering at all times.
   (D)   All off-street parking areas and premises entries of the sexually-
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one foot-candle of light on the parking surface and/or
walkways. The required lighting level is established in order to provide
sufficient illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually-
oriented business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to
reduce the incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be
shown on the required sketch or diagram of the premises.
   (E)   The premises within which the adult-oriented business is located shall
provide sufficient sound-absorbing insulation so that noise generated inside
said premises shall not be audible anywhere on any adjacent property or public
right-of-way or within any other building or other separate unit within the
same building.
   (F)   Except for those businesses also regulated by the California
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, an adult-oriented business shall be
open for business only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. on any
particular day.
   (G)   The building entrance to an adult-oriented business shall be clearly
and legibly posted with a notice indicating that persons under 18 years of age
are precluded from entering the premises. Said notice shall be constructed and
posted to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or designee.
No person under the age of 18 years shall be permitted within the premises at
any time.
   (H)   All indoor areas of the adult-oriented business within which patrons
are permitted, except restrooms, shall be open to view by the management at all
times.
   (I)   Any adult-oriented business which is also an “adult arcade” shall
comply with the following provisions.
      (1)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises have two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in
this division (I)(1) must be direct line of sight from the manager’s station.
      (2)   The view area specified in division (I)(5) below shall remain
unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials
at all times. No patron is permitted access to any area of the premises which
has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted.
      (3)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any one
time.
      (4)   The walls or partitions between viewing rooms or booths shall be
maintained in good repair at all times, with no holes between any two such
rooms such as would allow viewing from one booth into another or such as to
allow physical contact of any kind between the occupants of any two such booths
or rooms.
      (5)   Customers, patrons or visitors shall not be allowed to stand idly
by in the vicinity of any such video booths, or from remaining in the common
area of such business, other than the restrooms, who are not actively engaged
in shopping for or reviewing the products available on display for purchaser
viewing. Signs prohibiting loitering shall be posted in prominent places in and
near the video booths.
      (6)   The floors, seats, walls and other interior portions of all video
booths shall be maintained clean and free from waste and bodily secretions.
Presence of human excrement, urine, semen or saliva in any such booths shall be
evidence of improper maintenance and inadequate sanitary controls; repeated
instances of such conditions may justify suspension or revocation of the owner
and operator’s license to conduct the adult-oriented establishment.
   (J)   All areas of the adult-oriented business shall be illuminated at a
minimum of the following foot-candles, minimally maintained and evenly
distributed at ground level:
 
Area                        Foot-candles
Arcades                     10
Bookstores and other retail 20
establishments
Modeling studios            20
Motels/hotels               20 (in public areas)
                            5 (except during performances at which
Theaters and cabarets       times lighting shall be at least 1.25
                            foot-candles)
 
   (K)   The adult-oriented business shall provide and maintain separate
restroom facilities for male patrons and employees, and female patrons and
employees. Male patrons and employees shall be prohibited from using the
restroom(s) for females, and female patrons and employees shall be prohibited
from using the restroom(s) for males, except to carry out duties of repair,
maintenance and cleaning of the restroom facilities. The restrooms shall be
free from any adult material. Restrooms shall not contain television monitors
or other motion picture or video projection, recording or reproduction
equipment. The foregoing provisions of this division (K) shall not apply to an
adult-oriented business which deals exclusively with sale or rental of adult
material which is not used or consumed on the premises, such as an adult
bookstore or adult video store, and which does not provide restroom facilities
to its patrons or the general public.
   (L)   The following additional requirements shall pertain to adult-oriented
businesses providing live entertainment depicting specified anatomical areas or
involving specified sexual activities, except for businesses regulated by the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission.
      (1)   No person shall perform live entertainment for patrons of an adult-
oriented business, except upon a stage at least 18 inches above the level of
the floor which is separated by a distance of at least ten feet from the
nearest area occupied by patrons, and no patron shall be permitted within ten
feet of the stage while the stage is occupied by an entertainer. ENTERTAINER
shall mean any person who is an employee or independent contractor of the
adult-oriented business, or any person who, with or without any compensation or
other form of consideration, performs live entertainment for patrons of an
adult-oriented business.
      (2)   The adult-oriented business shall provide separate dressing room
facilities for entertainers which are exclusively dedicated to the
entertainers’ use.
      (3)   The adult-oriented business shall provide an entrance/exit for
entertainers which is separate from the entrance/exit used by patrons.
      (4)   The adult-oriented business shall provide access for entertainers
between the stage and the dressing rooms which is completely separated from the
patrons. If such separate access is not physically feasible, the adult-oriented
business shall provide a minimum three-foot-wide walk aisle for entertainers
between the dressing room area and the stage, with a railing, fence or other
barrier separating the patrons and the entertainers capable of (and which
actually results in) preventing any physical contact between patrons and
entertainers.
      (5)   No entertainer, either before, during or after performances, shall
have physical contact with any patron and no patron shall have physical contact
with any entertainer either before, during or after performances by such
entertainer. This division (L) shall only apply to physical contact on the
premises of the adult-oriented business.
      (6)   Fixed rail(s) at least 30 inches in height shall be maintained
establishing the separations between entertainers and patrons required by this
division (L).
      (7)   No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any
entertainer and no entertainer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any
patron.
      (8)   No owner or other person with managerial control over an adult-
oriented business (as that term is defined herein) shall permit any person on
the premises of the adult-oriented business to engage in a live showing of the
human male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a fully
opaque coverage, and/or the female breast with less than a fully opaque
coverage over any part of the nipple or areola and/or covered male genitals in
a discernibly turgid state. This provision may not be complied with by applying
an opaque covering simulating the appearance of the specified anatomical part
required to be covered.
   (M)   Adult-oriented businesses shall employ security guards in order to
maintain the public peace and safety, based upon the following standards.
      (1)   Adult-oriented businesses featuring live entertainment shall
provide at least one security guard at all times while the business is open. If
the occupancy limit of the premises is greater than 35 persons, an additional
security guard shall be on duty.
      (2)   Security guards for other adult-oriented businesses may be required
if it is determined by the Police Chief that their presence is necessary in
order to prevent any of the conduct listed in §
5-5-19(B)(2) from occurring on the premises.
      (3)   Security guard(s) shall be charged with preventing violations of
law and enforcing compliance by patrons of the requirements of these
regulations. Security guards shall be uniformed in such a manner so as to be
readily identifiable as a security guard by the public and shall be duly
licensed as a security guard as required by applicable provisions of state law.
No security guard required pursuant to this division (M)(3) shall act as a door
person, ticket seller, ticket taker, admittance person or sole occupant of the
manager’s station while acting as a security guard.
   (N)   The foregoing applicable requirements of this section shall be deemed
conditions of adult-oriented business regulatory permit approvals, and failure
to comply with every such requirement shall be grounds for revocation of the
permit issued pursuant to these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-21) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 5-5-22 REGISTER AND PERMIT NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES.
   Every permittee of an adult-oriented business which provides live
entertainment depicting specified anatomical areas or involving specified
sexual activities must maintain a register of all persons so performing on the
premises and their permit numbers. Such register shall be available for
inspection during regular business hours by any police officer or health
officer of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-22) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 5-5-23 DISPLAY OF PERMIT AND IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   Every adult-oriented business shall display, at all times, during
business hours the permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for
such adult-oriented business in a conspicuous place so that the same may be
readily seen by all persons entering the adult-oriented business.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall provide each adult-oriented business performer
required to have a permit pursuant to the chapter, with an identification card
containing the name, address, photograph and permit number of such performer.
   (C)   An adult-oriented business performer shall have such card available
for inspection, at all times, during which such person is on the premises of
the adult-oriented business.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-23) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 5-5-24 EMPLOYMENT OF AND SERVICES RENDERED TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 18
YEARS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any permittee, operator or other person in
charge of any adult-oriented business to employ, or provide any service for
which it requires such permit, to any person who is not at least 18 years of
age.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any permittee, operator or other person in
charge of any adult-oriented business to permit to enter, or remain within the
adult-oriented business, any person who is not at least 18 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-24) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
§§ 5-5-25—5-5-30 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ****
§ 5-5-31 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or permittee shall permit representatives of the
following to inspect the premises of an adult-oriented business for the purpose
of ensuring compliance with the law and the development and performance
standards applicable to adult-oriented businesses, at any time it is occupied
or opened for business:
      (1)   County Sheriff’s Department, which provides police services to the
city;
      (2)   County health agency, which provides health services to the city;
      (3)   County Fire Authority, which provides fire protection services to
the city;
      (4)   The City Community Development Department; and
      (5)   All other city departments or agencies.
   (B)   A person who operates an adult-oriented business or their agent or
employee is in violation of the provisions of this section if they refuse to
permit such lawful inspection of the premises at any time it is occupied or
open for business.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-31) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 5-5-32 REGULATIONS NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating adult-oriented businesses are not
intended to be exclusive and compliance therewith shall not excuse
noncompliance with any other regulations pertaining to the operation of
businesses as adopted by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-32) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
§ 5-5-33 EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONS WITHOUT PERMITS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, manager or permittee in charge
of or in control of an adult-oriented business which provides live
entertainment depicting specified anatomical areas or involving specified
sexual activities to allow any person to perform such entertainment who is not
in possession of a valid, unrevoked adult-oriented business performer permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-33) (Ord. 98-100, § 3, passed 3-17-1998)
***** CHAPTER 6: PERMITTING OF TAXICABS AND TAXICAB BUSINESSES *****
[Reserved]
***** CHAPTER 7: SIDEWALK VENDING *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Definitions
5-7-1   Definitions
Subchapter 2. Permit Process
5-7-2   Permit required
5-7-3   Permit application
5-7-4   Criteria for approval or denial of permit
5-7-5   Permit expiration and renewal
5-7-6   Permit recision
5-7-7   Appeals
5-7-8   Permits nontransferable
5-7-9   Permit display
Subchapter 3. Business Regulations
5-7-10   Operating requirements
Subchapter 4. Violations and Penalties
5-7-11   Administrative citations
5-7-12   Impoundment
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. DEFINITIONS ****
§ 5-7-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFIED FARMERS’ MARKET. A location operated in accordance with the
California Food and Agricultural Code, Division 17, Chapter 10.5 and any
regulations adopted pursuant to that chapter.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Community Development of the City of Laguna Niguel
or their designee.
   FOOD AND MERCHANDISE. Only tangible items for immediate consumption and in
possession of the vendor at the time and point of sale.
   IMPOUND. To seize or take custody of a sidewalk vending cart, equipment,
utensils, food or merchandise (collectively classified as “items”) because of a
violation of any applicable law or regulation.
   PARK. A public park owned or operated by the city.
   PARKWAY. A piece of land located between the rear of a curb and the front of
a sidewalk or between the sidewalk and property line, usually used for planting
low ground cover and/or street trees and separating pedestrians from vehicles
within the right-of-way.
   PERSON. One or more natural persons, groups, businesses, business trusts,
companies, corporations, joint ventures, joint stock companies, partnership,
entities, associations, clubs or organizations composed of two or more
individuals (or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any
of them), whether engaged in business, nonprofit or any other activity.
   ROAMING SIDEWALK VENDOR. A sidewalk vendor who moves from place to place and
stops only to complete a transaction.
   SIDEWALK. A portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, or an easement or right-of-way held by the city across the front
of private property, and intended for use of pedestrians. For purposes of this
chapter, SIDEWALK shall also include a paved path or walkway owned by the city
that is specifically designed for pedestrian travel. SIDEWALK, for purposes of
this chapter, does not include landscaped, parkway and non-pathway areas,
including turf, whether or natural or artificial, meant for passive recreation
or sporting activities, decorative rock and gravel areas, benched viewing areas
and adjacent access walkways, and other similar areas not intended specifically
for pedestrian travel and access to public or private facilities.
   SIDEWALK VENDING PERMIT. A city permit issued to a sidewalk vendor pursuant
this chapter of the municipal code.
   SIDEWALK VENDOR. A person who vends from a vending cart or from one’s
person, upon a public sidewalk, parkway, pedestrian path or other public right-
of-way available to pedestrians other than persons authorized to vend in such
areas pursuant to a lawfully issued temporary special permit, or in certified
farmers’ markets or swap meets.
   STATIONARY SIDEWALK VENDOR. A sidewalk vendor who vends from a fixed
location on a sidewalk.
   SWAP MEET. A location operated in accordance with the California Business
and Professions Code, Division 8, Chapter 9, Subchapter 6, being §§ 21660
through 21669.1, and any regulations adopted pursuant to that subchapter.
   TEMPORARY SPECIAL PERMIT. A permit, other than a sidewalk vending permit,
issued by the city for the temporary use of, or encroachment on, the sidewalk
or any other public area, including, but not limited to, an encroachment
permit, special event permit or temporary event permit, for purposes including,
but not limited to, filming, parades or outdoor concerts.
   VEND or VENDING. To sell, offer for sale, display for sale or solicit offers
to purchase, food, food products, beverages, goods or merchandise.
   VENDING CART. A pushcart, stand, display, pedal-driven cart, wagon,
showcase, rack or other non-motorized conveyance used for vending, that is not
a vehicle as defined in the California Vehicle Code.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-01) (Ord. 2020-206, § 6, passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 2020-207, §
5, passed 8-4-2020)
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. PERMIT PROCESS ****
§ 5-7-2 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, either for themselves or any other person, shall conduct or
engage in sidewalk vending within the city without first obtaining a sidewalk
vending permit pursuant to this subchapter. All persons associated with a
sidewalk vending operation, including, but not limited to, employees or
independent contracts are considered sidewalk vendors and are required to
obtain separate and individual sidewalk vending permits.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-05) (Ord. 2020-206, § 6, passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 2020-207, §
5, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 5-7-3 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   To apply for a sidewalk vending permit, a person must file an
application with the Director, accompanied by a nonrefundable processing fee in
an amount established by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   The application shall be in a form prescribed by the Director and
shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The legal name, current mailing address and telephone number of the
applicant;
      (2)   If the applicant is an agent of an individual, company,
partnership, corporation or other entity, the name and business address of the
principal;
      (3)   If the applicant will have employees, the name(s), current mailing
address(es) and phone number of the person(s) that will be employed as
stationary or roaming sidewalk vendor(s);
      (4)   The number of sidewalk vending operations the vendor intends to
operate within the city;
      (5)   The days and hours of operation the applicant intends to operate;
      (6)   Whether the applicant intends to operate as a stationary or roaming
sidewalk vendor;
      (7)   Description of the food or merchandise offered for sale;
      (8)   If a vendor of food or food products, certification to completion
of a food handler course and proof of all required approvals from the County
Department of Public Health;
      (9)   A state seller’s permit number pursuant to the California Revenue
and Taxation Code, § 6067, which shall be maintained for the duration of the
vendor’s city permit;
      (10)   One of the following forms of identification, which upon
collection, shall not be available by the city to the public for inspection and
shall remain confidential and not be disclosed except as required to administer
the permit or comply with state law or state or federal court order:
         (a)   A copy of the valid state driver’s license or identification
card issued to the vendor; or
         (b)   A copy of the individual taxpayer identification number issued
to the vendor.
      (11)   For stationary vendors, a site plan or description of the proposed
location(s) where vending will take place, showing that the sidewalk location
maintains a minimum clear width of 48 inches of accessible route area for
pedestrian travel when considering the vendor equipment and anticipated
customer queue, or other minimum clear width for pedestrian travel required by
the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.,
or other federal or state law with regard to disability access;
      (12)   A copy of general liability policy naming the city as additional
insured, in the amount of $1,000,000.00, which shall be maintained for the
duration of the vendor’s city sidewalk vending permit;
      (13)   An acknowledgment that the vendor will comply with all generally
applicable local, state and federal laws;
      (14)   Any other reasonable information regarding the time, place and
manner of the proposed vending;
      (15)   Certification by the applicant that the information contained in
the application is true to their knowledge and belief;
      (16)   An agreement by the vendor to indemnify, defend (at the vendor’s
sole cost and expense) and hold the city, and its officers, officials,
employees, representatives, contract employees and agents, harmless, from all
claims, losses, damages, injuries, liabilities or losses which arise out of, or
which are in any way related to, the city’s issuance of a sidewalk vending
permit, the city’s decision to approve the sidewalk vending permit, the
operation of the sidewalk vending use and activity and the process used by the
city in making its decision. This indemnification shall include, but shall not
be limited to, damages awarded against the city, if any costs of suit,
attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred in connection with such claim,
action or proceeding whether incurred by the permitee, city and/or the parties
initiating or bringing such proceeding; and
      (17)   An acknowledgment that use of public property is at the vendor’s
own risk, and the city does not warrant or take any steps to ensure public
property is safe or conducive to sidewalk vending operations.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-10) (Ord. 2020-206, § 6, passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 2020-207 §
5, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 5-7-4 CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Within 30 calendar days of receiving a complete application, as
determined by the Director, or their designee, the Director shall approve the
issuance of a permit unless they determine that:
      (1)   Information contained in the application, or supplemental
information requested from the applicant, is false in any material detail;
      (2)   The applicant has failed to provide a complete application, after
having been notified of the requirement to produce additional information or
documents within 14 days of notification;
      (3)   The applicant has failed to demonstrate an ability to conform to
the operating standards set forth in §
5-7-10;
      (4)   The applicant has failed to demonstrate it can comply with
disability access or traffic safety provision of the municipal code, or any
statute, ordinance or regulation of the state, the county or any other public
agency regulations adopted by reference by the city;
      (5)   The applicant has failed to pay any previous administrative fines,
complete any community service and/or complete any other alternative
disposition associated with a previous violation of this chapter; or
      (6)   The applicant has had a sidewalk vending permit or similar permit
rescinded within the past 12 months by the city.
   (B)   If the permit is denied, written notice of such denial and the reasons
therefor shall be provided to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-15) (Ord. 2020-206, § 6, passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 2020-207, §
5, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 5-7-5 PERMIT EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   A sidewalk vending permit shall be valid for 12 months from the date
of issuance, and shall expire and become null and void on the anniversary of
its issuance.
   (B)   A person may apply for a permit renewal on a form provided by the city
prior to the expiration of their active sidewalk vending permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-20) (Ord. 2020-206, § 6, passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 2020-207 §
5, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 5-7-6 PERMIT RECISION.
   (A)   The Director may rescind a permit issued to a sidewalk vendor for a
fourth violation or subsequent violation of this chapter.
   (B)   A sidewalk vendor whose permit is rescinded may apply for a new
sidewalk vending permit upon the expiration of the term of the rescinded
permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-25) (Ord. 2020-206, § 6, passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 2020-207, §
5, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 5-7-7 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Director to issue, deny issuance
or rescind a sidewalk vending permit may appeal the decision to the City
Council. The appeal shall be filed with the City Clerk within 15 days following
the date of the Director’s decision.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-30) (Ord. 2020-206, § 6, passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 2020-207, §
5, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 5-7-8 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE.
   No permit granted pursuant to this chapter shall be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-35) (Ord. 2020-206, § 6, passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 2020-207 §
5, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 5-7-9 PERMIT DISPLAY.
   The sidewalk vending permit shall, during the time such permitee is engaged
in sidewalk vending, be worn constantly and conspicuously by the permitee on
the front of their outer garment. Sidewalk vendors shall be required to exhibit
their permits and/or licenses at the request of any person. If multiple
sidewalk vendors are staffing a sidewalk vending operation, each vendor shall,
during the operation of sidewalk vending, conspicuously display their permit on
the front of their outer garment.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-40) (Ord. 2020-206, § 6, passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 2020-207, §
5, passed 8-4-2020)
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. BUSINESS REGULATIONS ****
§ 5-7-10 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   Sidewalk vendors shall comply with the following.
   (A)   The sidewalk vendor shall be duly licensed and meet all requirements
of Title 5, Chapter 7, Subchapter 2.
   (B)   No sidewalk vendor shall vend in the following locations:
      (1)   On a sidewalk or pathway immediately adjacent to a portion of a
street or highway that is designated by signs or red curb markings as a “no
stopping” or “no parking” zone;
      (2)   On any sidewalk with a gradient in excess of 10%;
      (3)   Within 500 feet of a freeway on-ramp or off-ramp as prohibited by
California Vehicle Code, § 22520.5;
      (4)   Upon or within any roadway, median strip within a roadway or
dividing section of a roadway;
      (5)   Within 500 feet of a permitted certified farmers’ market, a swap
meet or an area designated for a temporary special permit. This prohibition
shall be limited to the operating hours of the farmers’ market or swap meet, or
the limited duration of the temporary use permit;
      (6)   Within 200 feet of City Hall, any police station or any fire
station: the distance shall be measured from the property line of the lot or
parcel on which City Hall, or the police station or fire station is located;
      (7)   Within 48 inches of another vendor;
      (8)   Within 500 feet of private or public academic school attended by
elementary, junior high or high school pupils. The distance shall be measured
from the property line of the lot or parcel; and
      (9)   Within 25 feet of a:
         (a)   Street intersection;
         (b)   Automated teller machine;
         (c)   Fire hydrant, fire call box, fire escape or other emergency
facility;
         (d)   Bus stop, loading zone, handicapped parking space or access
ramp;
         (e)   Driveway, alley, driveway apron or crosswalk;
         (f)   Public art objects, items and display; and
         (g)   Storm-drain catch basin.
      (10)   Within 15 feet of streetlight, parking meters, above ground
utility structures or subsurface utility box, valve or vault; or
      (11)   Within five feet of a parking meter.
   (C)   Sidewalk vendors and all aspects of their operations, including, but
not limited to, any vending cart, any associated equipment and any space
occupied by the vendor of their employees, shall not occupy a space exceeding
horizontal dimensions of a square measuring six feet by six feet. No vending
cart, or associated equipment, shall exceed a height of four feet. Sidewalk
vendors may only use an umbrella or temporary covering for shade or protection
from sun or rain, and it shall not exceed eight feet in height nor five feet in
diameter. Furthermore, the use of such an umbrella or temporary covering shall
be fire rated as flame-resistant as approved by the County Fire Authority for
any vending activities while an approved heating element or portable cooking
equipment is in use.
   (D)   No sidewalk vendor shall vend in a manner that blocks or obstructs the
free movement of pedestrians or vehicles. Sidewalk vendors must at all times
provide a minimum clear width of not less than 48 inches of accessible route
area for pedestrians when considering the vendor equipment and anticipated
customer queue, or such other minimum clear width for pedestrian travel as
required by in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., or other provision of federal or state law
with regard to disability access.
   (E)   Sidewalk vending is permitted between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m., daily, except as follows.
      (1)   In residential zones, sidewalk vending shall be permitted between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
      (2)   In nonresidential areas, the limit on hours of operation shall not
be more restrictive than the hours of operation of other businesses or uses on
the same street.
      (3)   In parks, sidewalk vendors shall cease operations one hour prior to
the close of the park, or by 10:00 p.m., whichever is earlier.
   (F)   Stationary sidewalk vendors shall not vend in areas that are zoned
exclusively residential.
   (G)   Stationary sidewalk vendors shall not vend at any park where the
operator of the park has signed an agreement for concessions that exclusively
permits the sale of food or merchandise by a concessionaire.
   (H)   Sidewalk vendors shall provide a trash receptacle for customers and
ensure proper disposal of customer trash. Prior to leaving any vending
location, the sidewalk vendor shall pick up, remove and dispose of all trash
generated by the vending operations or the vendor’s customers.
   (I)   These shall be no disposal of cooking materials or waste, including,
but not limited to, used oil, into the city’s trash receptacles, storm drains,
plant material or foliage. Vendors shall immediately clean up any food, grease
or other fluid or item related to the sidewalk vending operation that falls
onto public property.
   (J)   The sidewalk vendor shall not attach to or use any water lines,
electrical lines or gas lines during vending operations.
   (K)   Storage or display of equipment, materials, goods, wares, food or
merchandise associated with the vendor, outside the vending cart, is
prohibited. All food and merchandise shall be located stored either inside or
affixed to the vending cart or carried by the sidewalk vendor. The sidewalk
vendor shall not store or keep any food or merchandise on public property.
   (L)   Except for table, chair and shade structure for a stationary vendor,
no other tables, chairs, fences, shade structures, other site furniture or any
freestanding signs shall be permitted in conjunction with the vendor’s vending
activities.
   (M)   Signage associated with the sidewalk vender must be located on the
vending cart, and the vendor shall not display any signage on public property.
   (N)   All signage and advertising related to the sidewalk vendor and or
vending operations shall not be electrical, flashing, wind-powered or animated.
   (O)   The sidewalk vendor shall not use a horn, siren, amplified music or
any other audible device to attract attention to the presence of the vending
vehicle.
   (P)   The sidewalk vendor location shall not block entrances to private or
public buildings, private or public driveways, parking spaces or building
windows.
   (Q)   The sidewalk vendor shall not engage in aggressive sales, which shall
include touching a person being offered food or merchandise without that
person’s consent, continuing to offer food or merchandise for sale to a person
after they have declined to purchase food or merchandise, or deliberately
blocking or impeding the path of the person(s) being offered food or
merchandise.
   (R)   Sidewalk vendors shall not vend to or otherwise conduct transactions
with persons in moving vehicles or illegally parked or stopped vehicles.
   (S)   Sidewalk vendors shall possess at all times while vending a valid
permit issued pursuant to this chapter, as well as any other permit or license
required by the city and any other appropriate governmental agency. The
sidewalk vendor shall publicly display any and all required business and health
licenses, including, but not limited to, a valid permit from the County
Department of Public Health.
   (T)   The sidewalk vendor shall remit all required and applicable taxes to
the applicable taxing agencies.
   (U)   The sidewalk vendor shall not leave their sidewalk vending operation
unattended.
   (V)   No equipment or objects used for sidewalk vending purposes may be left
or maintained in public spaces or in any portion of the public right-of-way
beyond the allowed hours of operation. Any equipment or objects left overnight
in public spaces or in any portion of the public right-of-way will be
considered discarded and may be seized or disposed of by the city.
   (W)   The sidewalk vendor shall not use propane, natural gas or other
explosive or hazardous materials. The vendor shall not use an open flame for
the sidewalk vending operation.
   (X)   The sidewalk vendor shall not sell alcohol, marijuana, adult-oriented
material, tobacco products, products that contain nicotine or any product used
to smoke/vape nicotine and/or marijuana or any products not permitted to be
sold in the zone in which the sidewalk vendor is located.
   (Y)   No vending shall occur in roadways, medians, pedestrian islands or
bikeways.
   (Z)   No vending shall occur immediately adjacent to existing above-ground
amenities such as newsstands or street furniture, including, but not limited
to, benches and bike racks.
   (AA)   Sidewalk vendors shall comply with all applicable state and local
laws, including, without limitation, state food preparation, handling and
labeling requirements; fire codes and regulations; noise standards; and the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and
other disability access standards (both state and federal).
   (BB)   No vending cart shall become a permanent fixture on the vending site
or be considered an improvement to real property.
   (CC)   The sidewalk vendor shall keep and maintain the vending area in a
clean and sanitary condition.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-45) (Ord. 2020-206, § 6, passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 2020-207, §
5, passed 8-4-2020)
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES ****
§ 5-7-11 ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter by a sidewalk vendor who has a valid
sidewalk vending permit from the city is punishable by an administrative
citation pursuant to Title 1, Chapter 3, in amounts not to exceed the
following:
      (1)   One hundred dollars for a first violation;
      (2)   Two hundred dollars for a second violation within one year of the
first violation; and
      (3)   Five hundred dollars for each additional violation within one year
of the first violation.
   (B)   A person engaged in sidewalk vending without a valid city sidewalk
vending permit is punishable by an administrative citation, pursuant to Title
1, Chapter 3, Subchapter 2, in amounts not to exceed the following, in lieu of
the amounts set forth in division (A) above:
      (1)   Two hundred fifty dollars for a first violation;
      (2)   Five hundred dollars for a second violation within one year of the
first violation;
      (3)   One thousand dollars for each additional violation within one year
of the first violation; and
      (4)   Upon proof of a valid sidewalk vending permit issued by the city,
the administrative citations set forth in this division (B) shall be reduced to
amounts set forth in division (A) above.
   (C)   A violation of this chapter shall not be punishable as an infraction
or misdemeanor. No person alleged to have violated the provisions herein shall
be subject to arrest except when otherwise permitted by law.
   (D)   Failure to pay an administrative citation issued pursuant to this
section shall not be punishable as an infraction or misdemeanor. Additional
fines, fees, assessments or any other financial conditions beyond those
authorized herein shall not be assessed.
   (E)   When assessing administrative citations pursuant to this section, the
hearing officer shall take into consideration the person’s ability to pay the
fine. The city shall provide the person with notice of their right to request
an ability-to-pay determination and shall make available instructions or other
materials for requesting an ability-to-pay determination. The person may
request an ability-to-pay determination at adjudication or while the judgment
remains unpaid, including when a case is delinquent or has been referred to a
comprehensive collection program.
   (F)   If the person meets the criteria described in California Government
Code, § 68632(a) or (b), the city shall accept, in full satisfaction, 20% of an
administrative citation imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (G)   The hearing officer may allow a person to complete community service
in lieu of paying the total administrative citation, may waive the
administrative citation or may offer an alternative disposition.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-50) (Ord. 2020-206, § 6, passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 2020-207, §
5, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 5-7-12 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Impoundment authorization. Any city official, including a code
compliance officer and public works inspector, may impound a sidewalk vendor’s
vending cart, food, equipment, utensils, goods or merchandise (collectively
classified as “items”) used in violation of this chapter, pursuant to the
provisions of California Civil Code, § 2080.010; California Health and Safety
Code, § 114393; and/or any other applicable city, county or state law for any
of the following reasons:
      (1)   Food displayed, offered or made available for sale, including
equipment or utensils used by a sidewalk vendor without holding a valid and
displayed health permit from the County Health Care Agency’s Environmental
Health Division in violation of county or state law;
      (2)   Items reasonably appear to be unattended or abandoned on public or
private property for more than 30 consecutive minutes without moving from the
exact spot it was located and reasonable attempts were made to locate the owner
or responsible person(s) within the first 50 feet of the items;
      (3)   Items displayed, offered or made available for sale by a sidewalk
vendor who does not possess a valid applicable sidewalk vending permit as
required by §
5-7-2;
      (4)   Operation in violation of this chapter and refusal or failure by a
sidewalk vendor to remove items from public or private property within 30
consecutive minutes after being instructed to do so by a city official;
      (5)   Items displayed, offered or made available for sale by a sidewalk
vendor who vends in a manner that blocks or obstructs the free movement of
pedestrians on sidewalks and fails to maintain a minimum of 48 inches of
accessible path of travel, without obstruction, along the sidewalk upon which
the vendor is vending so as to enable persons to freely pass while walking,
running or using mobility assistance devices and/or in violation of the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (Pub. Law No. 101-336) and other
disability access standards; or
      (6)   (a)   Items displayed, offered or made available for sale in
violation of any applicable federal, state, county or city laws, ordinances and
regulations, including, but not limited to, illegal or counterfeit merchandise,
alcohol, tobacco, cannabis, smoke or vaping products, adult-oriented material,
live animals, weapons and/or pharmaceuticals; or
         (b)   Items creating an imminent and substantial danger or
environmental hazard to the health, safety or general welfare of the public or
property at the location of the vending cart, such as, but not limited to,
discharge of oil, grease or other slippery substances on the street or sidewalk
without any effort to maintain best management practices; using unapproved
portable cooking equipment, heating element, gas-fueled appliance, generator or
any open flame; during an urgent or emergency public safety event or incident;
lack of a fire extinguisher; using any luminaire, flashing lights or any other
animated devices or sign; or using, operating or permitting any radio,
loudspeaker or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of
sound.
   (B)   Verbal warning. Prior to commencing an impoundment action under the
preceding division (A) above, a city official will issue a verbal warning to
the sidewalk vendor operating in violation of this chapter. An impoundment
action will proceed only if the sidewalk vendor fails or refuses to comply with
the verbal warning within the time specified or, if no time is specified,
within a reasonable time.
   (C)   Disposal authorization. The city may immediately dispose of impounded
items that are perishable and/or cannot be safely stored.
   (D)   Impoundment notification. For any impoundment under this section, the
person from whom items were taken shall be provided with a receipt and
instructions for the retrieval of the items, excluding any items that were
immediately disposed of because they were perishable and/or could not be safely
stored. The receipt and instructions shall either be given to the person from
whom the items were taken at the time the city official obtained the items, or
mailed, by first-class mail, to the person from whom the items were taken, if
the person provides a valid form of identification which includes the person’s
contact information.
      (1)   The receipt and instructions shall notify the person from whom the
items were taken that the items must be claimed within 60 calendar days after
the city takes possession of the items or the items will be disposed.
      (2)   If the owner or person responsible for unattended items cannot be
identified, or if a person refuses to provide identification, the city official
shall document the date, time period and location where the impounded property
was observed; the circumstances supporting the city official’s finding that the
items were unattended, if applicable; any reasonable attempt to locate the
owner of the items; any refusal by the owner of the items to provide
identification; and a complete description of the items, including any item
that was immediately disposed of because it was perishable or presented a
health or safety concern. This document shall be maintained by the city with
any impounded items.
   (E)   Recovery of impounded items and payment of impound fees. A sidewalk
vendor may recover impounded items, excluding any items that were immediately
disposed of because they were perishable and/or could not be safely stored,
upon paying applicable impound fees and demonstrating proper proof of ownership
of the items.
   (F)   Unclaimed items. Any unclaimed items will be considered abandoned and
forfeited to the city after 60 calendar days from the date of impoundment.
   (G)   Appeal of impoundment. Any person who has had their sidewalk vending
cart, food, equipment, utensils, goods or merchandise (collectively classified
as “items”) impounded pursuant to this chapter may appeal such determination to
the Director by filing a request for an administrative appeal hearing with the
Community Development Department within 30 calendar days of impoundment. No
deposit or fee is required to request a hearing on impounded items under this
section. The request for an appeal shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The name, current mailing address and telephone number of the
sidewalk vendor (appellant);
      (2)   As applicable, the date of impoundment of items by a city official;
      (3)   A statement as to all grounds for appeal in sufficient detail to
understand the nature of the controversy; and
      (4)   The signature of the sidewalk vendor (appellant) under penalty of
perjury as to the contents of the request for appeal.
   (H)   Administrative appeal hearing. An administrative appeal hearing shall
be scheduled before the Director within 30 calendar days of the filing of the
appeal unless both the appellant and the Director consent to a later date. The
Director shall give notice in writing to the appellant of the date, time and
location of the administrative appeal hearing at least ten calendar days in
advance of the hearing. At the administrative appeal hearing, the Director
shall review the record of the reason for impoundment of items and hear
testimony of the sidewalk vendor (appellant) and any other interested party, if
any. If successful in their appeal, a sidewalk vendor shall not be required to
pay the impound fee(s) and may have their items returned, excluding any items
that were immediately disposed of because they were perishable and/or could not
be safely stored.
   (I)   Impound fees. The City Council may, by resolution, adopt impound fees,
which shall reflect the city’s personnel, enforcement, investigation, storage,
disposal and impound costs.
   (J)   Additional regulations. The Director is further authorized to develop
additional regulations for the storage and release of impounded items not in
conflict with this section.
   (K)   Administrative citations. None of the aforementioned impoundment
actions in this section prevents the city from issuing an administrative
citation to a person reasonably believed to be in violation of any provision of
this chapter.
TITLE 6: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Chapter
   1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   2.   DISEASE CONTROL
   3.   SEWAGE AND SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
   4.   FOOD AND SANITATION
   5.   WATER CONSERVATION
   6.   NOISE CONTROL
   7.   PUBLIC SMOKING
   8.   FLAVORED ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE PRODUCTS
   9.   AMBULANCE SERVICE
***** CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS *****
Reserved]
Editor’s note:
Ord. 96-92, § 1, adopted 8-20-1996, repealed Subchapter 1, §§ 6-2-1 through 6-
2-17, in its entirety. Former Subchapter 1 pertained to pest abatement and
derived from Ord. 90-11, § 4, adopted 3-6-1990.
***** CHAPTER 2: DISEASE CONTROL *****
Subchapter 1. Reserved
6-2-1—6-2-17   Reserved
Cross-reference:
Sanitary sewer collection systems, §§
8-4-1 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. RESERVED ****
§§ 6-2-1—6-2-17 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
***** CHAPTER 3: SEWAGE AND SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Construction Site Sanitation Facilities
6-3-1   Definitions
6-3-2   Sanitary facilities required
6-3-3   Specifications generally
6-3-4   Specifications in special situations
6-3-5   Maintenance
6-3-6   Enforcement of subchapter
6-3-7—6-3-16   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Solid Waste Management
6-3-17   Definitions
6-3-18   Requirements for single-family generators
6-3-19   Requirements for commercial businesses
6-3-20   Solid waste removal
6-3-21   Waivers for generators
6-3-22   Charges for collection service
6-3-23   Payment for collection service
6-3-24   Suspension of collection service
6-3-25   Bond and insurance for haulers
6-3-26   Transfer of franchise
6-3-27   Collection vehicles, containers and other equipment
6-3-28   Hours and schedule of collection
6-3-29   Requirements for commercial edible food generators
6-3-30   Requirements for food recovery organizations and services
6-3-31   Requirements for haulers and facility operators
6-3-32   Self-hauler requirements
6-3-33   Procurement requirements for city departments, direct service
providers and vendors
6-3-34   Compliance with CALGreen C&D requirements
6-3-35   Inspections and investigations
6-3-36   Transport of solid waste
6-3-37   Additional rules and regulations
6-3-38   Unlawful dumping
6-3-39   Dumping of tires
6-3-40   Enforcement of subchapter
6-3-41   Administration of subchapter
6-3-42   Integrated planning
Subchapter 3. Reserved
6-3-43—6-3-199   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Hazardous Material Disclosure
6-3-200   Intent and purpose of subchapter
6-3-201   Short title
6-3-202—6-3-209   Reserved
6-3-210   Definitions
6-3-211—6-3-219   Reserved
6-3-220   Additional designation of hazardous materials
6-3-221—6-3-229   Reserved
6-3-230   Filing of disclosure form
6-3-231—6-3-239   Reserved
6-3-240   Contents of disclosure form
6-3-241—6-3-249   Reserved
6-3-250   Exemptions from disclosure
6-3-251—6-3-259   Reserved
6-3-260   Dissemination of information regarding hazardous waste
6-3-261—6-3-269   Reserved
6-3-270   Identification of areas where hazardous material is used or handled;
key boxes
6-3-271—6-3-279   Reserved
6-3-280   Fees
6-3-281—6-3-289   Reserved
6-3-290   Confidentiality of information
6-3-291—6-3-294   Reserved
6-3-295   Additional rules and regulations
6-3-296—6-3-299   Reserved
6-3-300   Violation of subchapter
6-3-301—6-3-399   Reserved
Subchapter 5. Prohibition of Non-Stormwater Discharges into Storm Sewers
6-3-400   Purpose
6-3-401   Recitals
6-3-402   Short title
6-3-403   Definitions
6-3-404   Prohibition on illicit connections and prohibited discharges
6-3-405   Control of runoff discharges
6-3-406   Inspections
6-3-407   Enforcement
6-3-408   Reserved
6-3-409   Interagency cooperation
6-3-409.1   Compliance disclaimer
6-3-410   Judicial review
6-3-411—6-3-599   Reserved
Subchapter 6. Construction and Demolition Waste Recycling Program
6-3-600   Declaration of purpose
6-3-601   Definitions
6-3-602   Duties of the C&D compliance officer
6-3-603   Construction and demolition debris diversion requirement
6-3-604   Exemptions
6-3-605   Security deposit required
6-3-606   Refund of security deposit
6-3-607   Forfeiture of security deposit
6-3-608   Use of security deposits
6-3-609   Appeals
6-3-610   Violations
6-3-611—6-3-699   Reserved
Subchapter 7. Organic Waste Disposal Reduction
6-3-700   Definitions
6-3-701   Requirements for single-family generators
6-3-702   Requirements for commercial businesses
6-3-703   Waivers for generators
6-3-704   Requirements for commercial edible food generators
6-3-705   Requirements for food recovery organizations and services
6-3-706   Requirements for haulers and facility operators
6-3-707   Self-hauler requirements
6-3-708   Procurement requirements for city departments, direct service
providers and vendors
6-3-709   Compliance with CALGreen recycling requirements
6-3-710   Reserved
6-3-711   Inspections and investigations by city
6-3-712   Enforcement
6-3-713   Effective date
6-3-714—6-3-799   Reserved
Subchapter 8. Special Collection
6-3-800   Waste diversion programs at special events
Cross-reference:
Building regulations, see Title 8
Disposal of dead animals, see §
10-1-33
Fire protection and explosives, see §§
11-3-1 et seq.
Licenses and business regulations, see Title 5
Public safety, see §§ 11-9-1 et seq.
Storage and transport of manure, garbage and the like, see §§ 5-3-81 et seq.
Transport of hydrocyanic acid, see § 11-9-12
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. CONSTRUCTION SITE SANITATION FACILITIES ****
§ 6-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Director of Community Development or their designee.
   PERSON. Any person, firm or corporation, or any county, municipal
corporation or public district of the state.
   SANITARY FACILITY. A water flush toilet approved by the Health Department
connected to an approved sewage disposal system, or a chemical type toilet
approved by the Health Department.
   WORK. The erection, construction, alteration, repair, razing, adding to,
removal or demolition of any building; the construction or repair of any
street, road, highway or railroad or installation of sewers or water lines; or
the improvement of any grounds for parks, playgrounds or airports or for any
similar purpose.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 6-3-2 SANITARY FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commence or proceed with any work,
unless, before commencing or proceeding with the work, adequate and suitable
sanitary facilities are provided for the use of persons employed on such work.
The sanitary facilities provided shall be located upon the site upon which such
work is being done, or, in case it is impractical to locate the facilities upon
the site, such sanitary facilities must be located not more than 250 feet from
the site of the work. Not less than one sanitary facility shall be provided for
each 20 persons or fraction thereof employed upon the work.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-3 SPECIFICATIONS GENERALLY.
   All sanitary facilities shall be completely enclosed on all sides and the
top and shall be equipped with a self-closing door. The floor of the enclosure
shall be six inches above ground level and shall be smooth, and screened
ventilation shall be provided for the sanitary facility compartment. All
sanitary facility enclosures shall have an inside area of at least 15 square
feet for each sanitary facility enclosed. Each sanitary facility enclosure
shall contain at least one sanitary facility with seat and cover and one
separate urinal. The ceiling height of the sanitary facility enclosure shall be
a minimum of six feet.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-4 SPECIFICATIONS IN SPECIAL SITUATIONS.
   (A)   On work employing not more than 15 persons at any time on any premises
that does not abut any street, alley or easement in which a public sewer is
available for connection, or for the erection of a single dwelling, a pit privy
may be maintained, in lieu of the sanitary facilities referred to in §
6-3-3.
   (B)   The privy vault shall be at least three feet in depth and not less
than six square feet in area. The foundation or floor thereof and the riser and
seat therein shall be so constructed and maintained as to provide a completely
flytight vault.
   (C)   No privy shall be constructed or maintained within four feet of the
property line or within ten feet of any sidewalk or public way or within 50
feet of any residence or any premises used for residential purposes. No privy
shall be built or maintained within a radius of 500 feet from any grocery
store, delicatessen, meat market, public eating place or school, or within 100
feet of a water well.
   (D)   Whenever the use of a privy vault is discontinued, the vault contents
shall be covered to a depth of not less than one foot with compacted earth.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-5 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All sanitary facility enclosures provided for by this subchapter shall
be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times and shall be kept
supplied with toilet paper.
   (B)   Pit privies shall be disinfected with a suitable material to prevent
odors and fly breeding.
   (C)   Chemical type sanitary facilities shall be completely pumped out at
sufficiently frequent intervals to prevent odors and overflowing and shall be
recharged with a fresh non-skinburning chemical.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-6 ENFORCEMENT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector, the Health Department and
all peace officers charged with the enforcement of law to enforce this
subchapter and all the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 6-3-7—6-3-16 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT ****
§ 6-3-17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following words, terms, phrases and
their derivations have the meanings given herein. Terms defined elsewhere in
this chapter shall have the same meanings herein unless expressly defined in
this subchapter. When consistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future tense, and words in the singular number include the
plural number.
   ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT. The department of the city designated by the City
Council to administer this subchapter.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER. The duly appointed officer of the city authorized to
administer this subchapter, as designated by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-18)
   BLUE CONTAINER. Has the same meaning as in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18982(a)(5) and shall be used for the purpose of storage and
collection of source separated recyclable materials or source separated BLUE
CONTAINER organic waste. The body of the BLUE CONTAINER is either blue or black
in color and the lid is blue in color for residential and commercial 35-, 64-
or 96-gallon recyclable materials carts. The body of the BLUE CONTAINER is
white in color and the lid of the container is blue or black in color for two,
three, four or six cubic yard commercial recyclable materials bins.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The Board of Supervisors of Orange County.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-19)
   CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS. The State of California Code of Regulations.
California Code of Regulations references in this subchapter are preceded with
a number that refers to the relevant Title of the California Code of
Regulations (e.g., “14 California Code of Regulations” refers to Title 14 of
California Code of Regulations).
   CALRECYCLE. California’s Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery,
which is the department designated with responsibility for developing,
implementing and enforcing SB 1383 Regulations on cities (and others).
   CITY ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The City Manager, or other executive in charge or
their authorized designee(s), who is/are partially or wholly responsible for
enforcing the ordinance. See also REGIONAL OR COUNTY AGENCY ENFORCEMENT
OFFICIAL.
   COMMERCIAL BUSINESS or COMMERCIAL. A firm, partnership, proprietorship,
joint-stock company, corporation or association, whether for-profit or
nonprofit, strip mall, industrial facility or a multi-family residential
dwelling, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982
(a)(6). A multi-family residential dwelling that consists of fewer than five
units is not a COMMERCIAL BUSINESS for purposes of implementing this
subchapter.
   COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR. Includes a tier one or a tier two
commercial edible food generator, as defined in this subchapter or as otherwise
defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(73) and (a)(74). For
the purposes of this definition, food recovery organizations and food recovery
services are not COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATORS pursuant to 14 California
Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(7).
   COMPLIANCE REVIEW. A review of records by the city to determine compliance
with this subchapter.
   COMMUNITY COMPOSTING. Any activity that composts green material,
agricultural material, food material and vegetative food material, alone or in
combination, and the total amount of feedstock and compost on-site at any one
time does not exceed 100 cubic yards and 750 square feet, as specified in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 17855(a)(4); or as otherwise defined by 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(8).
   COMPOST. Has the same meaning as in 14 California Code of Regulations, §
17896.2(a)(4), that COMPOST means the product resulting from the controlled
biological decomposition of organic solid wastes that are source separated from
the municipal solid waste stream, or which are separated at a centralized
facility.
   COMPOSTABLE PLASTICS or COMPOSTABLE PLASTIC. Plastic materials that meet the
ASTM D6400 standard for compostability, or as otherwise described in 14
California Code of Regulations, §§ 18984.1(a)(1)(A) or 18984.2(a)(1)(C).
   CONTAINER. Receptacles for solid waste storage.
   CONTAINER CONTAMINATION or CONTAMINATED CONTAINER. A container, regardless
of color, that contains prohibited container contaminants, or as otherwise
defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(55).
   COUNTY AGENCY ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. A regional or county agency enforcement
official, designated by the city with responsibility for enforcing the
ordinance in conjunction or consultation with city enforcement official.
   C&D. Construction and demolition debris.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-20)
   DESIGNEE. An entity that the city contracts with or otherwise arranges to
carry out any of the city’s responsibilities of this subchapter as authorized
in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18981.2. A DESIGNEE may be a government
entity, a hauler, a private entity or a combination of those entities.
   DIRECT SERVICE PROVIDER. A person, company, agency, district or other entity
that provides a service or services to city pursuant to a contract or other
written agreement or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations,
§ 18982(a)(17).
(Prior Code, § 6-3-21)
   EDIBLE FOOD. Food intended for human consumption or as otherwise defined in
14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(18). For the purposes of this
subchapter or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, §
18982(a)(18), EDIBLE FOOD is not solid waste if it is recovered and not
discarded. Nothing in this subchapter or in 14 California Code of Regulations,
Division 7, Chapter 12 requires or authorizes the recovery of EDIBLE FOOD that
does not meet the food safety requirements of the California Retail Food Code.
   ENFORCEMENT ACTION. An action of the city to address non-compliance with
this subchapter, including, but not limited to, issuing administrative
citations, fines, penalties or using other remedies.
   EXCLUDED WASTE. Hazardous substance, hazardous waste, infectious waste,
designated waste, volatile, corrosive, medical waste, infectious, regulated
radioactive waste and toxic substances or material that facility operator(s),
which receive materials from the city and its generators, reasonably believe(s)
would, as a result of or upon acceptance, transfer, processing or disposal, be
a violation of local, state or federal law, regulation or ordinance, including:
land use restrictions or conditions, waste that cannot be disposed of in Class
III landfills or accepted at the facility by permit conditions, waste that in
the city’s, or its designee’s, reasonable opinion would present a significant
risk to human health or the environment, cause a nuisance or otherwise create
or expose city or its designee to potential liability; but not including de
minimis volumes or concentrations of waste of a type and amount normally found
in single-family or multi-family solid waste after implementation of programs
for the safe collection, processing, recycling, treatment and disposal of
batteries and paint in compliance with California Public Resources Code, §§
41500 and 41802. EXCLUDED WASTE does not include used motor oil and filters,
household batteries, universal wastes, electronic waste and/or latex paint when
such materials are defined as allowable materials for collection through the
city’s collection programs and the generator or customer has properly placed
the materials for collection pursuant to instructions provided by city or its
designee for collection services.
   FOOD DISTRIBUTOR. A company that distributes food to entities, including,
but not limited to, supermarkets and grocery stores, or as otherwise defined in
14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(22).
   FOOD FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in California Health and Safety Code,
§ 113789.
   FOOD RECOVERY. Actions to collect and distribute food for human consumption
that otherwise would be disposed, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code
of Regulations, § 18982(a)(24).
   FOOD RECOVERY ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   An entity that engages in the collection or receipt of edible food
from commercial edible food generators and distributes that edible food to the
public for food recovery either directly or through other entities or as
otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(25),
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   A food bank as defined in the California Health and Safety Code,
§ 113783;
         (b)   A nonprofit charitable organization as defined in the California
Health and Safety Code, § 113841; and
         (c)   A nonprofit charitable temporary food facility as defined in the
California Health and Safety Code, § 113842.
      (2)   A food recovery organization is not a commercial edible food
generator for the purposes of this subchapter and implementation of 14
California Code of Regulations, Division 7, Chapter 12 pursuant to 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(7).
      (3)   If the definition in 14 California Code of Regulations § 18982(a)
(25) for food recovery organization differs from this definition, the
definition in 14 California Code of Regulations § 18982(a)(25) shall apply to
this subchapter.
   FOOD RECOVERY SERVICE. A person or entity that collects and transports
edible food from a commercial edible food generator to a food recovery
organization or other entities for food recovery, or as otherwise defined in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(26). A FOOD RECOVERY SERVICE is not
a commercial edible food generator for the purposes of this subchapter and
implementation of 14 California Code of Regulations, Division 7, Chapter 12
pursuant to 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(7).
   FOOD SCRAPS. All food such as, but not limited to, fruits, vegetables, meat,
poultry, seafood, shellfish, bones, rice, beans, pasta, bread, cheese, fats,
oils, grease and eggshells.
   FOOD SERVICE PROVIDER. An entity primarily engaged in providing food
services to institutional, governmental, commercial or industrial locations of
others based on contractual arrangements with these types of organizations, or
as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(27).
   FOOD-SOILED PAPER. Compostable paper material that has come in contact with
food or liquid, such as, but not limited to, compostable paper plates, paper
coffee cups, napkins, pizza boxes and milk cartons.
   FOOD WASTE. Food scraps.
   GRAY CONTAINER. Has the same meaning as in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18982(a)(28) and shall be used for the purpose of storage and
collection of GRAY CONTAINER waste. The body and lid of the GRAY CONTAINER is
black in color for 35-, 64- or 95-gallon residential and commercial solid waste
carts. The body of the GRAY CONTAINER is blue in color and the lid of the
container is black in color for commercial two, three, four and six cubic yard
solid waste bins.
   GRAY CONTAINER WASTE. Solid waste that is collected in a gray container that
is part of a three-container organic waste collection service that prohibits
the placement of organic waste in the gray container as specified in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18984.1(a) and (b), or as otherwise defined
in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 17402(a)(6.5).
   GREEN CONTAINER. Has the same meaning as in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18982(a)(29) and shall be used for the purpose of storage and
collection of source separated GREEN CONTAINER organic waste. The lid of the
GREEN CONTAINER is green in color and the body is black in color for
residential and commercial 35-, 64- or 95-gallon organic waste carts. The body
of the GREEN CONTAINER is white in color and the lid of the container is green
in color for commercial two-yard organic waste bins.
   GROCERY STORE. A store primarily engaged in the retail sale of canned food;
dry goods; fresh fruits and vegetables; fresh meats, fish and poultry; and any
area that is not separately owned within the store where the food is prepared
and served, including a bakery, deli and meat and seafood departments, or as
otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(30).
   HAULER. Any solid waste collector or solid waste transporter who has been
granted a franchise by the city council to engage in the collection,
transportation or disposal of solid waste, recyclables or organic waste in the
city.
   HAULER ROUTE. The designated itinerary or sequence of stops for each segment
of the city’s collection service area, or as otherwise defined in 14 California
Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(31.5).
   HAZARDOUS WASTES.
      (1)   All waste defined or characterized as hazardous waste by the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.) in
42 U.S.C. § 6903(5) as amended from time to time, and all implementing
regulations;
      (2)   All waste defined or characterized as a hazardous substance
pursuant to the provisions of the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 9601 et seq. (“CERCLA” or
“Superfund”), as in 42 U.S.C. § 9601(14), may be amended from time to time, and
all implementing regulations; and
      (3)   All waste defined or characterized as hazardous waste by agencies
of the state (including, without limitations, the Department of Health
Services, the Department of Toxic Substances Control and CALRecycle) having
jurisdiction over solid and hazardous waste. The term HAZARDOUS WASTE means, in
addition to any substance included in any of the foregoing categories, those
substances which are not normally permitted to be disposed of by generally
accepted, sanitary landfill disposal methods, but which may be contained in
solid waste streams. In the event of a conflict in the definitions employed by
two or more governmental agencies having concurrent or overlapping jurisdiction
over HAZARDOUS WASTE, the broader, more encompassing definition shall apply.
   HIGH DIVERSION ORGANIC WASTE PROCESSING FACILITY. A facility that is in
compliance with the reporting requirements of 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18815.5(d) and meets or exceeds an annual average mixed waste
organic content recovery rate of 75%, as calculated pursuant to 14 California
Code of Regulations, § 18815.5(e) for organic waste received from the MIXED
WASTE ORGANIC COLLECTION STREAM as defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 17402(a)(11.5); or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18982(a)(33).
   HIGHWAY. Any street, road, alley, highway or thoroughfare.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-25)
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any liquid or solid waste substance, not sewage, from any
producing, manufacturing or processing operation of whatever nature.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-26)
   INSPECTION. A site visit where the city, or County Health Agency Enforcement
Official, reviews records, containers and an entity’s collection, handling,
recycling or landfill disposal of organic waste or edible food handling to
determine if the entity is complying with requirements set forth in this
subchapter, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, §
18982(a)(35).
   LARGE EVENT. An event, including, but not limited to, a sporting event or a
flea market, that charges an admission price, or is operated by a local agency,
and serves an average of more than 2,000 individuals per day of operation of
the event, at a location that includes, but is not limited to, a public,
nonprofit or privately-owned park, parking lot, golf course, street system or
other open space when being used for an event. If the definition in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(38) differs from this definition,
the definition in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(38) shall apply
to this subchapter.
   LARGE VENUE. A permanent venue facility that annually seats or serves an
average of more than 2,000 individuals within the grounds of the facility per
day of operation of the venue facility. For purposes of this subchapter and
implementation of 14 California Code of Regulations, Division 7, Chapter 12, a
venue facility includes, but is not limited to, a public, nonprofit or
privately-owned or operated stadium, amphitheater, arena, hall, amusement park,
conference or civic center, zoo, aquarium, airport, racetrack, horse track,
performing arts center, fairground, museum, theater or other public attraction
facility. For purposes of this subchapter and implementation of 14 California
Code of Regulations, Division 7, Chapter 12, a site under common ownership or
control that includes more than one LARGE VENUE that is contiguous with other
large venues in the site, is a single LARGE VENUE. If the definition in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(39) differs from this definition,
the definition in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(39) shall apply
to this subchapter.
   LOCAL EDUCATION AGENCY. A school district, charter school or county office
of education that is not subject to the control of city or county regulations
related to solid waste, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations § 18982(a)(40).
   LIQUID WASTE. Any waste, or combination of wastes, which is free flowing.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-29)
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING or MULTI-FAMILY. Of, from or pertaining to
residential premises with five or more dwelling units. MULTI-FAMILY premises do
not include hotels, motels or other transient occupancy facilities, which are
considered commercial businesses.
   NON-COMPOSTABLE PAPER. Includes, but is not limited to, paper that is coated
in a plastic material that will not breakdown in the composting process, or as
otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(41).
   NON-LOCAL ENTITY. The following entities that are not subject to the city’s
enforcement authority, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18982(a)(42):
      (1)   Federal facilities located within the boundaries of the city; and
      (2)   State agencies located within the boundaries of the city, including
all local education agencies.
   NON-ORGANIC RECYCLABLES. Non-putrescible and non-hazardous recyclable
wastes, including, but not limited to, bottles, cans, metals, plastics and
glass, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)
(43).
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION or NOV. A notice that a violation has occurred that
includes a compliance date to avoid an action to seek penalties, or as
otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(45) or
further explained in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18995.4.
   ORGANIC WASTE. Solid wastes containing material originated from living
organisms and their metabolic waste products, including, but not limited to,
food, green material, landscape and pruning waste, organic textiles and
carpets, lumber, wood, paper products, printing and writing paper, manure,
biosolids, digestate and sludges or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code
of Regulations § 18982(a)(46). Biosolids and digestate are as defined by 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a).
   ORGANIC WASTE GENERATOR. A person or entity that is responsible for the
initial creation of organic waste, or as otherwise defined in 14 California
Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(48).
   PAPER PRODUCTS. Include, but are not limited to, paper janitorial supplies,
cartons, wrapping, packaging, file folders, hanging files, corrugated boxes,
tissue and toweling, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18982(a)(51).
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, copartnership, joint venture, association,
social club, fraternal organization, corporation, estate, trust, receiver,
syndicate, municipality, district or other political subdivision, or any group
or combination acting as a unit.
   PRINTING and WRITING PAPERS. Include, but are not limited to, copy,
xerographic, watermark, cotton fiber, offset, forms, computer printout paper,
white wove envelopes, manila envelopes, book paper, note pads, writing tablets,
newsprint and other uncoated writing papers, posters, index cards, calendars,
brochures, reports, magazines and publications, or as otherwise defined in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(54).
   PROCESSOR. Any person regularly engaged in the processing or recycling of
solid wastes.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-33)
   PROHIBITED CONTAINER CONTAMINANTS. The following:
      (1)   Discarded materials placed in the blue container that are not
identified as acceptable source separated recyclable materials for the city’s
blue container;
      (2)   Discarded materials placed in the green container that are not
identified as acceptable source separated green container organic waste for the
city’s green container;
      (3)   Discarded materials placed in the gray container that are
acceptable source separated recyclable materials and/or source separated green
container organic wastes to be placed in city’s green container and/or blue
container; and
      (4)   Excluded waste placed in any container.
   RECOVERED ORGANIC WASTE PRODUCTS. Products made from state, landfill-
diverted recovered organic waste processed in a permitted or otherwise
authorized facility or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18982(a)(60).
   RECOVERY. Any activity or process described in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18983.1(b), or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18982(a)(49).
   RECYCLED-CONTENT PAPER. Paper products and printing and writing paper that
consists of at least 30%, by fiber weight, postconsumer fiber or as otherwise
defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(61).
    REGIONAL AGENCY. regional agency as defined in California Public Resources
Code, § 40181.
   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste from residential sources only, i.e.,
homes, apartments and other dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-35)
   RESTAURANT. An establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of food
and drinks for on-premises or immediate consumption, or as otherwise defined in
14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(64).
   ROUTE REVIEW. A visual inspection of containers along a hauler route for the
purpose of determining container contamination, and may include mechanical
inspection methods such as the use of cameras, or as otherwise defined in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(65).
   SB 1383. Senate Bill 1383 of 2016, approved by the Governor on September 19,
2016, which added §§ 39730.5, 39730.6, 39730.7 and 39730.8 to the California
Health and Safety Code, and added Chapter 13.1 (commencing with § 42652) to
Part 3 of Division 30 of the California Public Resources Code, establishing
methane emissions reduction targets in a statewide effort to reduce emissions
of short-lived climate pollutants as amended, supplemented, superseded and
replaced from time to time.
   SB 1383 ELIGIBLE MULCH. Mulch eligible to meet the annual recovered organic
waste product procurement target, pursuant to 14 California Code of
Regulations, Chapter 12 of Division 7. This SB 1383 ELIGIBLE MULCH shall meet
the following conditions for the duration of the applicable procurement
compliance year, as specified by 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18993.1
(f)(4):
      (1)   Produced at one of the following facilities:
         (a)   A compostable material handling operation or facility as defined
in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 17852(a)(12), that is permitted or
authorized under 14 California Code of Regulations, Division 7, other than a
chipping and grinding operation or facility as defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 17852(a)(10);
         (b)   A transfer/processing facility or transfer/processing operation
as defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 17402(a)(30) and (31),
respectively, that is permitted or authorized under 14 California Code of
Regulations, Division 7; or
         (c)   A solid waste landfill as defined in California Public Resources
Code, § 40195.1 that is permitted under 27 California Code of Regulations,
Division 2.
      (2)   Meet or exceed the physical contamination, maximum metal
concentration and pathogen density standards for land application specified in
14 California Code of Regulations, § 17852(a)(24.5)(A)1 through 3, as enforced
by § 6-3-40(A).
   SB 1383 REGULATIONS or SB 1383 REGULATORY. The short-lived climate
pollutants: organic waste reduction regulations developed by CalRecycle and
adopted in 2020 that created 14 California Code of Regulations, Division 7,
Chapter 12 and amended portions of regulations of 14 California Code of
Regulations and 27 California Code of Regulations.
   SELF-HAULER. A person who hauls solid waste, organic waste or recyclable
material they have generated to another person. SELF-HAULER also includes a
person who back-hauls waste, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations § 18982(a)(66). BACK-HAUL means generating and transporting organic
waste to a destination owned and operated by the generator using the
generator’s own employees and equipment, or as otherwise defined in 14
California Code of Regulations § 18982(a)(66)(A).
   SINGLE-FAMILY. Of, from or pertaining to any residential premises with fewer
than five units.
   SOLID WASTE. Has the same meaning as defined in California Public Resources
Code, § 40191, which defines solid waste as all putrescible and nonputrescible
solid, semisolid and liquid wastes, including garbage, trash, refuse, paper,
rubbish, ashes, industrial wastes, demolition and construction wastes,
abandoned vehicles and parts thereof, discarded home and industrial appliances,
dewatered, treated or chemically fixed sewage sludge which is not hazardous
waste, manure, vegetable or animal solid and semi-solid wastes, and other
discarded solid and semisolid wastes, with the exception that SOLID WASTE does
not include any of the following wastes:
      (1)   Hazardous waste, as defined in the California Public Resources
Code, § 40141;
      (2)   Radioactive waste regulated pursuant to the California Radiation
Control Law (Chapter 8 (commencing with § 114960) of Part 9 of Division 104 of
the California Health and Safety Code); and
      (3)   Medical waste regulated pursuant to the State Medical Waste
Management Act (Part 14 (commencing with § 117600) of Division 104 of the
California Health and Safety Code). Untreated medical waste shall not be
disposed of in a solid waste landfill, as defined in California Public
Resources Code, § 40195.1. Medical waste that has been treated and deemed to be
SOLID WASTE shall be regulated pursuant to Division 30 of the California Public
Resources Code.
   SOLID WASTE HANDLING. Includes the storage, collection, transportation,
treatment, utilization, processing, recycling and disposal of solid wastes.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-36)
   SOURCE SEPARATED. Materials, including commingled recyclable materials, that
have been separated or kept separate from the solid waste stream, at the point
of generation, for the purpose of additional sorting or processing those
materials for recycling or reuse in order to return them to the economic
mainstream in the form of raw material for new, reused or reconstituted
products, which meet the quality standards necessary to be used in the
marketplace, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations §
17402.5(b)(4). For the purposes of this subchapter, SOURCE SEPARATED shall
include separation of materials by the generator, property owner, property
owner’s employee, property manager or property manager’s employee into
different containers for the purpose of collection such that SOURCE SEPARATED
materials are separated from gray container waste or other solid waste for the
purposes of collection and processing.
   SOURCE SEPARATED BLUE CONTAINER ORGANIC WASTE. Source separated organic
wastes that can be placed in a blue container that is limited to the collection
of those organic wastes and non-organic recyclables as defined in 14 California
Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(43), or as otherwise defined by 14 California
Code of Regulations, § 17402(a)(26.7).
   SOURCE SEPARATED GREEN CONTAINER ORGANIC WASTE. Source separated organic
waste that can be placed in a green container that is specifically intended for
the separate collection of organic waste by the generator, excluding source
separated blue container organic waste, carpets, non-compostable paper and
textiles.
      SOURCE SEPARATED RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Source separated non-organic
recyclables and source separated blue container organic waste.
   STATE. The State of California.
   SUPERMARKET. A full-line, self-service retail store with gross annual sales
of $2,000,000.00, or more, and which sells a line of dry grocery, canned goods
or nonfood items and some perishable items, or as otherwise defined in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(71).
   TIER ONE COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR.
      (1)   A commercial edible food generator that is one of the following:
         (a)   Supermarket;
         (b)   Grocery store with a total facility size equal to or greater
than 10,000 square feet;
         (c)   Food service provider;
         (d)   Food distributor; and
         (e)   Wholesale food vendor.
      (2)   If the definition in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)
(73) of tier one commercial edible food generator differs from this definition,
the definition in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(73) shall apply
to this subchapter.
   TIER TWO COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR.
      (1)   A commercial edible food generator that is one of the following:
         (a)   Restaurant with 250 or more seats, or a total facility size
equal to or greater than 5,000 square feet;
         (b)   Hotel with an on-site food facility and 200 or more rooms;
         (c)   Health facility with an on-site food facility and 100 or more
beds;
         (d)   Large venue;
         (e)   Large event;
         (f)   A state agency with a cafeteria with 250 or more seats or total
cafeteria facility size equal to or greater than 5,000 square feet; and
         (g)   A local education agency facility with an on-site food facility.
      (2)   If the definition in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)
(74) of TIER TWO COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR differs from this definition,
the definition in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(74) shall apply
to this subchapter.
   TRANSFER STATION. A supplemental transportation facility used as an adjunct
to refuse collection vehicles.
   TRANSPORTER. Any person who transports solid waste from a central collection
point to a processor or disposal facility.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-37)
   VEHICLE. Any truck, trailer, semitrailer, passenger car, station wagon,
pickup or conveyance used or intended to be used for the purpose of collecting,
hauling or transporting solid waste upon public highways.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-39)
   WHOLESALE FOOD VENDOR. A business or establishment engaged in the merchant
wholesale distribution of food, where food (including fruits and vegetables) is
received, shipped, stored, prepared for distribution to a retailer, warehouse,
distributor or other destination, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code
of Regulations, § 189852(a)(76).
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 6-3-18 REQUIREMENTS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY GENERATORS.
   (A)   Every person occupying or having charge or control of any premises in
the city in or on which any solid waste may or does accumulate or exist shall
place and keep all such solid waste, recyclables and organic waste upon the
premises in a covered watertight metal or other impervious container, which
shall meet the approval of the Health Department. Such container shall be kept
in a sanitary condition and in good repair at all times.
   (B)   Single-family waste generators shall comply with the following
requirements, unless they meet the self-hauler requirements in this subchapter:
      (1)   Subscribe to the city’s organic waste collection services. The city
shall have the right to review the number and size of a generator’s containers
to evaluate adequacy of capacity provided for each type of collection service
for proper separation of materials and containment of materials; and single-
family generators shall adjust its service level for its collection services as
requested by the city. Generators may additionally manage their organic waste
by preventing or reducing their organic waste, managing organic waste on site
and/or using a community composting site pursuant to 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18984.9(c); and
      (2)   Participate in the city’s organic waste collection service(s) by
placing designated materials in designated containers as described herein, and
shall not place prohibited container contaminants in collection containers. The
generator shall place source separated green container organic waste, including
food waste, in the green container; source separated recyclable materials in
the blue container; and gray container waste in the gray container. Generators
shall not place materials designated for the gray container into the green
container or blue container.
   (C)   Except for mechanically dumped containers, the weight of containers,
including contents, at time of collection shall not exceed 50 pounds.
   (D)   Containers which do not conform to the standards of this section shall
be tagged by the hauler. The hauler shall notify the city after the second such
violation for investigation and appropriate action.
   (E)   Yard and tree trimmings shall either be placed in the green container
or in a bundle or bag or shall be securely tied in bundles measuring not more
than four feet long and two feet in diameter and weighing not more than 50
pounds.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-44) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-19 REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL BUSINESSES.
   Generators that are commercial businesses, including multi-family
residential dwellings, shall:
   (A)   Subscribe to city’s three-container collection services and comply
with requirements of those services as described below in division (B) below,
except commercial businesses that meet the self-hauler requirements in §
6-3-32. The city shall have the right to review the number and size of a
generator’s containers and frequency of collection to evaluate adequacy of
capacity provided for each type of collection service for proper separation of
materials and containment of materials; and commercial businesses shall adjust
their service level for their collection services as requested by the city;
   (B)   (1)   Except commercial businesses that meet the self-hauler
requirements in §
6-3-32, participate in the city’s organic waste collection service(s) by
placing designated materials in designated containers as described below.
      (2)   Generator shall place source separated green container organic
waste, including food waste, in the green container; source separated
recyclable materials in the blue container; and gray container waste in the
gray container. Generator shall not place materials designated for the gray
container into the green container or blue container.
   (C)   Supply and allow access to adequate number, size and location of
collection containers with sufficient labels or colors (conforming with
divisions (D)(1) and (D)(2) below) for employees, contractors, tenants and
customers, consistent with city’s blue container, green container and gray
container collection service or, if self-hauling, per the commercial
businesses’ instructions to support its compliance with its self-haul program,
in accordance with §
6-3-32;
   (D)   Excluding multi-family residential dwellings, provide containers for
the collection of source separated green container organic waste and source
separated recyclable materials in all indoor and outdoor areas where disposal
containers are provided for customers, for materials generated by that
business. Such containers do not need to be provided in restrooms. If a
commercial business does not generate any of the materials that would be
collected in one type of container, then the business does not have to provide
that particular container in all areas where disposal containers are provided
for customers. Pursuant to 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18984.9(b), the
containers provided by the business shall have either:
      (1)   A body or lid that conforms with the container colors provided
through the collection service provided by the city, with either lids
conforming to the color requirements or bodies conforming to the color
requirements or both lids and bodies conforming to color requirements. A
commercial business is not required to replace functional containers, including
containers purchased prior to January 1, 2022, that do not comply with the
requirements of this section prior to the end of the useful life of those
containers, or prior to January 1, 2036, whichever comes first; or
      (2)   Container labels that include language or graphic images, or both,
indicating the primary material accepted and the primary materials prohibited
in that container, or containers with imprinted text or graphic images that
indicate the primary materials accepted and primary materials prohibited in the
container. Pursuant 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18984.8, the container
labeling requirements are required on new containers commencing January 1,
2022.
   (E)   Multi-family residential dwellings are not required to comply with
container placement requirements or labeling requirement in division (D) above
pursuant to 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18984.9(b);
   (F)   To the extent practical through education, training, inspection and/or
other measures, excluding multi-family residential dwellings, prohibit
employees from placing materials in a container not designated for those
materials per the city’s blue container, green container and gray container
collection service or, if self-hauling, per the commercial businesses’
instructions to support its compliance with its self-haul program, in
accordance with §
6-3-32;
   (G)   Excluding multi-family residential dwellings, periodically inspect
blue containers, green containers and gray containers for contamination and
inform employees if containers are contaminated and of the requirements to keep
contaminants out of those containers pursuant to 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18984.9(b)(3);
   (H)   Annually provide information to employees, contractors, tenants and
customers about organic waste recovery requirements and about proper sorting of
source separated green container organic waste and source separated recyclable
materials;
   (I)   Provide education information before or within 14 days of occupation
of the premises to new tenants that describes requirements to keep source
separated green container organic waste and source separated recyclable
materials separate from gray container waste (when applicable) and the location
of containers and the rules governing their use at each property;
   (J)   Provide or arrange access for city or its agent to their properties
during all inspections conducted in accordance with §
6-3-35 to confirm compliance with the requirements of this subchapter;
   (K)   If a commercial business wants to self-haul, meet the self-hauler
requirements in §
6-3-32;
   (L)   Nothing in this section prohibits a generator from preventing or
reducing waste generation, managing organic waste on site or using a community
composting site pursuant to 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18984.9(c);
and
   (M)   Commercial businesses that are tier one or tier two commercial edible
food generators shall comply with food recovery requirements, pursuant to §
6-3-30.
§ 6-3-20 SOLID WASTE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Solid waste created, produced or accumulated in or about an apartment
house, a dwelling house or other place of human habitation shall be removed
from the premises at least once each week.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the person having control or possession of the
premises described division (A) above to fail or neglect to provide for the
removal of solid waste. Each day’s violation of this section shall be treated
and considered as a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Residential solid waste containers shall be placed adjacent to the
public highway, or curb thereon, not earlier than 24 hours before collection is
scheduled and removed therefrom not later than 24 hours after collection.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-45) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-21 WAIVERS FOR GENERATORS.
   (A)   De minimis waivers. The city may waive a commercial business’
obligation (including multi-family residential dwellings) to comply with some
or all of the organic waste requirements of this subchapter if the commercial
business provides documentation, or if the city has evidence demonstrating,
that the business generates below a certain amount of organic waste material as
described in division (A)(2) below. If the city has sufficient evidence
demonstrating that a commercial business generates below a certain amount of
organic waste as described in division (A)(2) below, it may verify that the
commercial businesses’ organic waste generation meets the threshold without the
receipt of a waiver application as described in division (A)(1) below. As part
of the organic waste generation verification process, the city may request
documentation from the commercial business as described in division (A)(2)
below. Commercial businesses requesting a de minimis waiver shall:
      (1)   Submit an application specifying the services that they are
requesting a waiver from and provide documentation as noted in division (A)(2)
below;
      (2)   Provide documentation that either:
         (a)   The commercial business’ total solid waste collection service is
two cubic yards or more per week and organic waste subject to collection in a
blue container or green container comprises less than 20 gallons per week per
applicable container of the business’ total waste; or
         (b)   The commercial business’ total solid waste collection service is
less than two cubic yards per week and organic waste subject to collection in a
blue container or green container comprises less than ten gallons per week per
applicable container of the business’ total waste.
      (3)   Notify the city if circumstances change such that commercial
business’s organic waste exceeds threshold required for waiver, in which case
waiver will be rescinded; and
      (4)   Provide written verification of eligibility for de minimis waiver
every five years, if the city has approved de minimis waiver.
   (B)   Physical space waivers.
      (1)   The city may waive a commercial business’ or property owner’s
obligations (including multi-family residential dwellings) to comply with some
or all of the recyclable materials and/or organic waste collection service
requirements if the city has evidence from its own staff, a hauler, licensed
architect or licensed engineer demonstrating that the premises lacks adequate
space for the collection containers required for compliance with the organic
waste collection requirements of §§
6-3-18 or
6-3-19.
      (2)   A commercial business or property owner may request a physical
space waiver through the following process:
         (a)   Submit an application form specifying the type(s) of collection
services for which they are requesting a compliance waiver;
         (b)   Provide documentation that the premises lacks adequate space for
blue containers and/or green containers, including documentation from its
hauler, licensed architect or licensed engineer; and
         (c)   Provide written verification to city that it is still eligible
for physical space waiver every five years, if the city has approved
application for a physical space waiver.
§ 6-3-22 CHARGES FOR COLLECTION SERVICE.
   (A)   All charges for collection services shall be approved by the City
Council. A permittee’s residential rates within a permit area will be uniform.
Charges shall be based upon the number of containers, types of waste, number of
separate pickup points at place of collection, placement of containers,
distance of carryout, frequency of collection, location and geographical
terrain and whether a commercial, industrial or residential collection.
   (B)   Haulers shall permit access by the city, on demand of the
administrative officer, to subscriber lists showing names and addresses of
subscribers in the city, frequency of collection, the rate charged subscribers
and the type of account, whether residential, commercial or industrial.
   (C)   Application for rate changes shall be made in writing to the
administrative officer. Changes in rates may be authorized by the City Council
after investigation and recommendation by the administrative officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-57) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-23 PAYMENT FOR COLLECTION SERVICE.
   Billings may be made so that payment for residential service is due
quarterly, in advance, and commercial service is due monthly, in arrears, or as
otherwise set forth in the franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-58) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-24 SUSPENSION OF COLLECTION SERVICE.
   A hauler may deny service to a subscriber for reason of failure to pay their
bill or for any substantial refusal to comply with the requirements of this
code as provided in the hauler’s permit or franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-66) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-25 BOND AND INSURANCE FOR HAULERS.
   (A)   The City Council from time to time may establish bond requirements for
haulers as it may deem necessary.
   (B)   The City Council may further include insurance and indemnity
requirements in any permit and/or franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-75) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-26 TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.
   A hauler shall not sell, assign, subcontract or transfer a franchise, or any
of the rights and privileges granted thereby, without the prior written
approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-78) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-27 COLLECTION VEHICLES, CONTAINERS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Vehicles used in the collection or transportation of solid waste shall
comply with the requirements set forth in the franchise agreement or permit.
   (B)   All containers used by haulers shall have the hauler’s name and
telephone number, as it appears on the statement of ownership, clearly
imprinted thereon.
   (C)   The city reserves the right to control the hauler’s equipment in the
event of emergencies affecting the public health and safety.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-84) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-28 HOURS AND SCHEDULE OF COLLECTION.
   (A)   Residential solid waste collection shall be made only between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday, on a schedule that
must be approved by the Administrative Department.
   (B)   Residential collections shall be made at least once weekly.
   (C)   The hauler is not required to pick up dirt, rocks, building material,
furniture, appliances, water heaters, automobile parts or other bulky items or
any object weighing more than 50 pounds or longer than four feet. Special
arrangements for the removal of these items may be made between the hauler and
the resident, and the charges therefor will be agreed on between them.
   (D)   The schedule for collections other than residential collections shall
be mutually agreeable to the customer and the hauler and approved by the city.
The administrative officer may prescribe the intervals and times of collection.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-85) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-29 REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATORS.
   (A)   Tier one commercial edible food generators and tier two commercial
edible food generators must comply with this section pursuant to 14 California
Code of Regulations, § 18991.3.
   (B)   Large venue or large event operators not providing food services, but
allowing for food to be provided by others, shall require food facilities
operating at the large venue or large event to comply with the requirements of
this section.
   (C)   Commercial edible food generators shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Arrange to recover the maximum amount of edible food that would
otherwise be disposed;
      (2)   Contract with, or enter into a written agreement with, food
recovery organizations or food recovery services for:
         (a)   The collection of edible food for food recovery; or
         (b)   Acceptance of the edible food that the commercial edible food
generator self-hauls to the food recovery organization for food recovery.
      (3)   Shall not intentionally spoil edible food that is capable of being
recovered by a food recovery organization or a food recovery service;
      (4)   Allow city’s designated enforcement entity or designated third-
party enforcement entity to access the premises and review records pursuant to
14 California Code of Regulations, § 18991.4;
      (5)   Keep records that include the following information, or as
otherwise specified in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18991.4:
         (a)   A list of each food recovery service or organization that
collects or receives its edible food pursuant to a contract or written
agreement established under 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18991.3(b);
         (b)   A copy of all contracts or written agreements established under
14 California Code of Regulations, § 18991.3(b); and
         (c)   A record of the following information for each of those food
recovery services or food recovery organizations:
            1.   The name, address and contact information of the food recovery
service or food recovery organization;
            2.   The types of food that will be collected by or self-hauled to
the food recovery service or food recovery organization;
            3.   The established frequency that food will be collected or self-
hauled; and
            4.   The quantity of food, measured in pounds recovered per month,
collected or self-hauled to a food recovery service or food recovery
organization for food recovery.
      (6)   No later than October 31 of each year for tier one commercial
edible food generators and tier two commercial edible food generators, those
commercial edible food generators shall provide an annual food recovery report
to the city that includes the following information:
         (a)   A copy of all contracts or written agreements established under
14 California Code of Regulations, § 18991.3(b);
         (b)   The quantity of food, measured in annual pounds recovered,
collected or self-hauled to a food recovery service or food recovery
organization for food recovery; and
         (c)   The name, address and contact information of the food recovery
service or food recovery organization.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit or conflict
with the protections provided by the California Good Samaritan Food Donation
Act of 2017, the Federal Good Samaritan Act or share table and school food
donation guidance pursuant to Senate Bill 557 of 2017, as those laws are
amended.
§ 6-3-30 REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOD RECOVERY ORGANIZATIONS AND SERVICES.
   (A)   Food recovery services collecting or receiving edible food directly
from commercial edible food generators, via a contract or written agreement
established under 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18991.3(b), shall
maintain the following records, or as otherwise specified by 14 California Code
of Regulations, § 18991.5(a)(1):
      (1)   The name, address and contact information for each commercial
edible food generator from which the service collects edible food;
      (2)   The quantity in pounds of edible food collected from each
commercial edible food generator per month;
      (3)   The quantity in pounds of edible food transported to each food
recovery organization per month; and
      (4)   The name, address and contact information for each food recovery
organization that the food recovery service transports edible food to for food
recovery.
   (B)   Food recovery organizations collecting or receiving edible food
directly from commercial edible food generators, via a contract or written
agreement established under 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18991.3(b),
shall maintain the following records, or as otherwise specified by 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18991.5(a)(2):
      (1)   The name, address and contact information for each commercial
edible food generator from which the organization receives edible food;
      (2)   The quantity in pounds of edible food received from each commercial
edible food generator per month; and
      (3)   The name, address and contact information for each food recovery
service that the organization receives edible food from for food recovery.
   (C)   No later than March 31 of each year, food recovery organizations and
food recovery services that have their primary address physically located in
the city and contract with or have written agreements with one or more
commercial edible food generators pursuant to 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18991.3(b) shall report to the city the total pounds of edible
food recovered in the previous calendar year from the tier one and tier two
commercial edible food generators they have established a contract or written
agreement with pursuant to 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18991.3(b).
   (D)   Food recovery capacity planning. In order to support edible food
recovery capacity planning assessments or other studies conducted by the city
or its designated entity, food recovery services and food recovery
organizations operating in the city shall provide information and consultation
to the city, upon request, regarding existing, or proposed new or expanded,
food recovery capacity that could be accessed by the city and its commercial
edible food generators. A food recovery service or food recovery organization
contacted by the city shall respond to such request for information within 60
days, unless a shorter timeframe is otherwise specified by the city.
§ 6-3-31 REQUIREMENTS FOR HAULERS AND FACILITY OPERATORS.
   (A)   Requirements for haulers. The exclusive franchised hauler providing
residential, commercial or industrial organic waste collection services to
generators within the city’s boundaries shall meet the following requirements
and standards as a condition of approval of a contract, agreement or other
authorization with the city to collect organic waste:
      (1)   Through written notice to the city annually on or before March 15,
identify the facilities to which they will transport organic waste, including
facilities for source separated recyclable materials and source separated green
container organic waste;
      (2)   Transport source separated recyclable materials and source
separated green container organic waste to a facility, operation, activity or
property that recovers organic waste as defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations, Division 7, Chapter 12, Article 2; and
      (3)   Obtain approval from the city to haul organic waste, unless it is
transporting source separated organic waste to a community composting site or
lawfully transporting C&D in a manner that complies with 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18989.1; this subchapter; and the city’s C&D ordinance.
   (B)   Requirements for facility operators and community composting
operations.
      (1)   Owners of facilities, operations and activities that recover
organic waste, including, but not limited to, compost facilities, in-vessel
digestion facilities and publicly-owned treatment works shall, upon city
request, provide information regarding available and potential new or expanded
capacity at their facilities, operations and activities, including information
about throughput and permitted capacity necessary for planning purposes.
Entities contacted by the city shall respond within 60 days.
      (2)   Community composting operators, upon city request, shall provide
information to the city to support organic waste capacity planning, including,
but not limited to, an estimate of the amount of organic waste anticipated to
be handled at the community composting operation. Entities contacted by the
city shall respond within 60 days.
§ 6-3-32 SELF-HAULER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Self-haulers shall source separate all recyclable materials and
organic waste (materials that the city otherwise requires generators to
separate for collection in the city’s organics and recycling collection
program) generated on-site from solid waste in a manner consistent with 14
California Code of Regulations, §§ 18984.1 and 18984.2, or shall haul organic
waste to a high diversion organic waste processing facility as specified in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18984.3.
   (B)   Self-haulers shall haul their source separated recyclable materials to
a facility that recovers those materials; and haul their source separated green
container organic waste to a solid waste facility, operation, activity or
property that processes or recovers source separated organic waste.
Alternatively, self-haulers may haul organic waste to a high diversion organic
waste processing facility.
   (C)   Self-haulers that are commercial businesses (including multi-family
residential dwellings) shall keep a record of the amount of organic waste
delivered to each solid waste facility, operation, activity or property that
processes or recovers organic waste; this record shall be subject to inspection
by the city. The records shall include the following information:
      (1)   Delivery receipts and weight tickets from the entity accepting the
waste;
      (2)   The amount of material in cubic yards or tons transported by the
generator to each entity; and
      (3)   If the material is transported to an entity that does not have
scales on-site, or employs scales incapable of weighing the self-hauler’s
vehicle in a manner that allows it to determine the weight of materials
received, the self-hauler is not required to record the weight of material but
shall keep a record of the entities that received the organic waste.
   (D)   Self-haulers that are commercial businesses (including multi-family
self-haulers) shall provide information collected in division (C) above to
city, if requested.
   (E)   A residential organic waste generator that self-hauls organic waste,
as described in §
6-3-18, is not required to record or report information in division (C) and (D)
above.
§ 6-3-33 PROCUREMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR CITY DEPARTMENTS, DIRECT SERVICE
PROVIDERS AND VENDORS.
   (A)   Direct service providers of landscaping maintenance, renovation and
construction shall:
      (1)   Use compost and SB 1383 eligible mulch, as practicable, produced
from recovered organic waste, for all landscaping renovations, construction or
maintenance performed for the city, whenever available, and capable of meeting
quality standards and criteria specified. SB 1383 eligible mulch used for land
application shall comply with 14 California Code of Regulations, Division 7,
Chapter 12, Article 12 and must meet or exceed the physical contamination,
maximum metal concentration and pathogen density standards specified in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 17852(a)(24.5)(A)(1) through (a)(24.5)(A)(3);
and
      (2)   Keep and provide records of procurement of recovered organic waste
products (either through purchase or acquisition) to the city, upon completion
of projects. Information to be provided shall include:
         (a)   General description of how and where the product was used and,
if applicable, applied;
         (b)   Source of product, including name, physical location and contact
information for each entity, operation or facility from whom the recovered
organic waste products were procured;
         (c)   Type of product;
         (d)   Quantity of each product; and
         (e)   Invoice or other record demonstrating purchase or procurement.
   (B)   All vendors providing paper products and printing and writing paper
shall:
      (1)   If fitness and quality are equal, provide recycled-content paper
products and recycled-content printing and writing paper that consists of at
least 30%, by fiber weight, postconsumer fiber instead of non-recycled products
whenever recycled paper products and printing and writing paper are available
at the same or lesser total cost than non-recycled items or at a total cost of
no more than 10% of the total cost for non-recycled items;
      (2)   Provide paper products and printing and writing paper that meet
Federal Trade Commission recyclability standard as defined in 16 C.F.R. §
260.12;
      (3)   Certify in writing, under penalty of perjury, the minimum
percentage of postconsumer material in the paper products and printing and
writing paper offered or sold to the city. This certification requirement may
be waived if the percentage of postconsumer material in the paper products,
printing and writing paper or both can be verified by a product label, catalog,
invoice or a manufacturer or vendor internet website;
      (4)   Certify in writing, on invoices or receipts provided, that the
paper products and printing and writing paper offered or sold to the city is
eligible to be labeled with an unqualified recyclable label as defined in 16
C.F.R. § 260.12 (2013); and
      (5)   Provide records to the city’s recovered organic waste product
procurement recordkeeping staff, in accordance with the city’s recycled-content
paper procurement policy(ies) of all paper products and printing and writing
paper purchases within 30 days of the purchase (both recycled-content and non-
recycled content, if any is purchased) made by any division or department or
employee of the city. Records shall include a copy (electronic or paper) of the
invoice or other documentation of purchase, written certifications as required
in divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) above for recycled-content purchases, purchaser
name, quantity purchased, date purchased and recycled content (including
products that contain none), and if non-recycled content paper products or
printing and writing papers are provided, include a description of why
recycled-content paper products or printing and writing papers were not
provided.
§ 6-3-34 COMPLIANCE WITH CALGREEN C&D REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Persons applying for a permit from the city for new construction and
building additions and alternations shall comply with all required components
of the California Green Building Standards Code, 24 California Code of
Regulations, Part 11, known as CALGreen, as amended, if its project is covered
by the scope of CALGreen. If the requirements of CALGreen are more stringent
than the requirements of this section, the CALGreen requirements shall apply.
   (B)   Project applicants shall refer to city’s building and/or planning code
and Title 6, Chapter 3, Subchapter 6 for complete CALGreen requirements.
§ 6-3-35 INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   City representatives, and/or its designated entity, including
designees, are authorized to conduct inspections and investigations, at random
or otherwise, of any collection container, collection vehicle loads or
transfer, processing or disposal facility for materials collected from
generators, or source separated materials to confirm compliance with this
subchapter by organic waste generators, commercial businesses (including multi-
family residential dwellings), property owners, commercial edible food
generators, haulers, self-haulers, food recovery services and food recovery
organizations, subject to applicable laws. This section does not allow city to
enter the interior of a private residential property for inspection.
   (B)   Regulated entity shall provide or arrange for access during all
inspections (with the exception of residential property interiors) and shall
cooperate with the city’s employee, or its designated entity/designee, during
such inspections and investigations. Such inspections and investigations may
include confirmation of proper placement of materials in containers, edible
food recovery activities, records or any other requirement of this subchapter
described herein. Failure to provide or arrange for:
      (1)   Access to an entity’s premises; or
      (2)   Access to records for any inspection or investigation is a
violation of this subchapter and may result in penalties described.
   (C)   Any records obtained by a city during its inspections and other
reviews shall be subject to the requirements and applicable disclosure
exemptions of the Public Records Act as set forth in California Government
Code, §§ 7920.000 et seq.
   (D)   The city representatives, its designated entity and/or designee are
authorized to conduct any inspections or other investigations as reasonably
necessary to further the goals of this subchapter, subject to applicable laws.
   (E)   City shall receive written complaints from persons regarding an entity
that may be potentially non-compliant with SB 1383 regulations, including
receipt of anonymous complaints.
   (F)   Service complaints shall be investigated by the city enforcement
officer, and, unless a satisfactory settlement is effected, the City Council
may be requested to hold a hearing by any of the parties involved, including
the Administrative Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-86) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-36 TRANSPORT OF SOLID WASTE.
   No person shall convey or transport solid wastes upon or along any public
highway in the city, unless such solid waste is contained and covered or
otherwise secured so as to prevent it from leaking, dripping, falling, blowing
or scattering from the vehicle in which it is being conveyed or transported.
All vehicles and equipment used in the transport of any form of refuse shall be
kept clean. No person shall drain the liquid from any such vehicle upon any
road or highway or upon any other land in such manner as to create an
unsanitary condition. Persons hauling solid wastes on the public highways shall
completely empty the solid wastes from their vehicles or containers at the
disposal site, or recover them if they are not completely emptied, in order to
prevent the scattering of residue on the return trip.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-95) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Transport of manure, garbage and the like, see § 5-3-83
§ 6-3-37 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The administrative officer shall have the power and duty to promulgate rules
and regulations to regulate the collection and transportation of solid waste in
the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-96) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-38 UNLAWFUL DUMPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or dump solid waste of
any kind whatsoever upon any private or public property without first having
obtained a use permit pursuant to the zoning laws of the city as now or
hereafter amended, or pursuant to any other zoning law that may be hereafter
adopted in the place and stead of the zoning laws of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-98) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-39 DUMPING OF TIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose, abandon or dump any
automobile, truck or bicycle tires or any other type of tire upon any private
or public property, other than at a transfer or disposal facility authorized by
law to dispose of such tires or by any otherwise lawful disposal method such as
disposal at a recycling facility.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-100) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-40 ENFORCEMENT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Enforcement and application. The general provisions of this subchapter
and the rules and regulations adopted pertaining to the public health, safety
and well-being of the public shall be enforced by the city. This subchapter
shall not apply to non-local entities unless otherwise provided by law.
   (B)   Issuance. Violation of any provision of this subchapter shall
constitute grounds for issuance of a notice of violation and assessment of a
fine by a city enforcement official or representative. Enforcement actions
under this subchapter are issuance of an administrative citation and assessment
of a fine. The city’s procedures on imposition of administrative fines set
forth in §§
1-3-11 through
1-3-25 are hereby incorporated in their entirety, as modified from time to
time, and shall govern the imposition, enforcement, collection and review of
administrative citations issued to enforce this subchapter and any rule or
regulation adopted pursuant to this subchapter, except as otherwise indicated
in this subchapter.
   (C)   Remedies and actions. Other remedies allowed by law may be used,
including civil action or prosecution as misdemeanor or infraction. The city
may pursue civil actions in the state courts to seek recovery of unpaid
administrative citations. The city may choose to delay court action until such
time as a sufficiently large number of violations, or cumulative size of
violations exist such that court action is a reasonable use of city staff and
resources.
   (D)   Process for enforcement.
      (1)   Enforcement pursuant to this subchapter may be undertaken by the
city enforcement official, which may be the City Manager, or their designated
entity, legal counsel or combination thereof.
      (2)   Enforcement may also be undertaken by a regional or county agency
enforcement official, designated by the city, in consultation with a city
enforcement official.
         (a)   City enforcement official(s) and regional or county agency
enforcement official will interpret ordinances; determine the applicability of
waivers, if violation(s) have occurred; implement enforcement actions; and
determine if compliance standards are met.
         (b)   City enforcement official(s) and regional or county agency
enforcement official may issue notices of violation(s).
   (E)   Process for enforcement.
      (1)   (a)   City enforcement officials or regional or county enforcement
officials and/or their designee will monitor compliance with the ordinance
randomly and through compliance reviews, route reviews, investigation of
complaints and an inspection program. Section
6-3-711 establishes city’s right to conduct inspections and investigations.
         (b)   The city may issue an official notification to notify regulated
entities of its obligations under the ordinance.
         (c)   The city shall issue a notice of violation requiring compliance
within 60 days of issuance of the notice.
         (d)   Absent compliance by the respondent within the deadline set
forth in the notice of violation, the city shall commence an action to impose
penalties, via an administrative citation and fine, pursuant to the city’s
administrative citation ordinance in §§
1-3-11 through
1-3-25.
      (2)   Notices shall be sent to “owner” at the official address of the
owner maintained by the tax collector for the city or if no such address is
available, to the owner at the address of the dwelling or commercial property
or to the party responsible for paying for the collection services, depending
upon available information.
   (F)   Penalty amounts for types of violations. Consistent with §
1-3-17, the penalty levels are as follows.
      (1)   For a first violation, the amount of the base penalty shall be
$100.00 per violation.
      (2)   For a second violation, the amount of the base penalty shall be
$200.00 per violation.
      (3)   For a third or subsequent violation, the amount of the base penalty
shall be $500.00 per violation.
   (G)   Compliance deadline extension considerations. The city may extend the
compliance deadlines set forth in a notice of violation issued in accordance
with §
6-3-712 if it finds that there are extenuating circumstances beyond the control
of the respondent that make compliance within the deadlines impracticable,
including the following:
      (1)   Acts of God, such as earthquakes, wildfires, flooding and other
emergencies or natural disasters;
      (2)   Delays in obtaining discretionary permits or other government
agency approvals; or
      (3)   Deficiencies in organic waste recycling infrastructure or edible
food recovery capacity and the city is under a corrective action plan with
CalRecycle pursuant to 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18996.2 due to
those deficiencies.
   (H)   Appeals process. Consistent with §§
1-3-20 through
1-3-24, persons receiving an administrative citation containing a penalty for
an uncorrected violation may request a hearing to appeal the citation. A
hearing will be held only if it is requested within the time prescribed and
consistent with city’s procedures in the city’s codes for appeals of
administrative citations. Evidence may be presented at the hearing. The city
will appoint a hearing officer who shall conduct the hearing and issue a final
written order.
   (I)   Civil penalties for non-compliance. Beginning January 1, 2024, if the
city determines that an organic waste generator, self-hauler, hauler, tier one
or tier two commercial edible food generator, food recovery organization, food
recovery service or other entity is not in compliance with this subchapter, it
shall document the noncompliance or violation, issue a notice of violation and
take enforcement action pursuant to § 6-3-57, as needed.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-125) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-41 ADMINISTRATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The administrative officer shall be responsible for the administration of
provisions relating to solid waste collection and transportation in the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-126) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-3-42 INTEGRATED PLANNING.
   The Director of Community Development shall work closely with the
administrative officer, assisting them to the maximum extent possible in the
planning for solid waste disposal, processing or similar facilities, including
the preparation of environmental impact reports and integrating such planning
with all other land use planning and the city general planning program, to
ensure that solid waste management is planned and designed in compatibility
with planned land use.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-137) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. RESERVED ****
§§ 6-3-43—6-3-199 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
Cross-reference:
   Prohibition of non-stormwater discharges into storm sewers, see §§
6-3-400 et seq.
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 95-83, § 2, adopted 7-18-1995, repealed former Subchapter 3, §§ 6-3-148
through 6-3-174, relative to industrial waste disposal, which derived from Ord.
90-16, § 1, adopted 4-3-1990.
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. HAZARDOUS MATERIAL DISCLOSURE ****
§ 6-3-200 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The City Council finds and declares that the following apply.
   (A)   Emergency service personnel in the city have a need to know of the use
and dangers of hazardous materials in the community in order to plan for and
respond to potential emergencies and exposure to such materials.
   (B)   Basic information on the location, type and health risks of hazardous
materials used or stored in the city is not now available to firefighters,
health officials, planners, elected officials and other emergency response
personnel.
   (C)   It is intended that the system of disclosure set forth in this
subchapter shall provide information essential to firefighters, health
officials, planners, elected officials and other emergency service personnel in
meeting their responsibilities for the health and welfare of the community in
such a fashion that trade secrecy is not abridged.
   (D)   It is further intended that this subchapter implement the community’s
right and need for basic information on the use and disposal of hazardous
materials in the city and provide for an orderly system for the provision of
such information.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-200) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-24, § 1,
passed 6-19-1990)
§ 6-3-201 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Hazardous Materials
Disclosure Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-201) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-24, § 1,
passed 6-19-1990)
§§ 6-3-202—6-3-209 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-3-210 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning; provided, however, that references to
statutes or regulations in existence at the time this subchapter is adopted
shall also include references to such statutes or regulations as they may be
amended or changed in the future.
   CARCINOGEN. A substance which causes cancer. For purposes of this
subchapter, CARCINOGENS are those substances specified on the list developed by
the United States Department of Health and Human Services on its Second Annual
Report on Carcinogens.
   CAS NUMBER. The unique identification name as assigned by the Chemical
Abstracts Services to specific chemical substances.
   CHEMICAL NAME. The scientific designation of a substance in accordance with
the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry or the system developed
by the Chemical Abstracts Services.
   COMMON NAME. A designation of identification, such as code name, code
number, trade name or brand name used to identify a substance other than by its
chemical name.
   DISCLOSURE FORM. The written request for information prepared, pursuant to
§§
6-3-230 and
6-3-240.
   FIRE CHIEF and DIRECTOR OF FIRE SERVICES. The Director of Fire Services of
the county.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Fire Department of the county.
   HANDLE. To generate, treat or dispose of hazardous material in any fashion.
   HANDLER. Any person who handles a hazardous substance.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any substance or product:
      (1)   For which the manufacturer or producer is required to prepare an
MSDS pursuant to the Hazardous Substances Information and Training Act,
California Labor Code, §§ 6360 et seq., or pursuant to any applicable federal
law or regulation;
      (2)   Which is listed in the California Health and Safety Code, § 78075;
      (3)   Which is listed as a radioactive material set forth in 10 C.F.R.
Chapter 1, Appendix B;
      (4)   Which is listed as a legal carcinogen by the California Code of
Regulations, Title 8, Division 1, Chapter 4, Subchapter 7, Group 16, or which
is specified in the definition of CARCINOGEN in this section;
      (5)   Which the Director of the Department of Food and Agriculture
classifies as a pesticide; or
      (6)   Which the EPA classifies as a priority organic pollutant.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE and EXTREMELY HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any material that is
identified in:
      (1)   California Health and Safety Code, §§ 25115, 25117 or 25122.7 and
the California Code of Regulations, Title 22, §§ 66261.1 et seq.; or
      (2)   40 C.F.R. §§ 261.31-261.33.
   HEALTH OFFICIAL. The health officer of the city or their deputy.
   MSDS. A material safety data sheet prepared, pursuant to California Labor
Code, § 6390 or pursuant to the regulations of the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration of the United States Department of Labor.
   PERSON. An individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, corporation,
partnership or association.
   PHYSICIAN. Any person who holds a valid certificate from the state to
practice the healing arts.
   SIC CODE. The identification number assigned by the Standard Industrial
Classification code to specific types of business.
   STORAGE and STORING. The containment of substances or materials in such a
manner as not to constitute disposal of such substances or materials.
   USE. Includes the handling, processing or storage of a hazardous substance.
   USER. Any person who uses a hazardous substance or handles a hazardous
waste.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-210) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-24, § 1,
passed 6-19-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§§ 6-3-211—6-3-219 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-3-220 ADDITIONAL DESIGNATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   A substance may be deemed a hazardous material or hazardous waste upon a
finding by the Director of Fire Services that the substance, because of its
quantity, concentration or physical or chemical characteristics, poses a
significant present or potential hazard to human health and safety or to the
environment if released into the community. The Director of Fire Services may
use the California Fire Code to assist in requiring the types and amounts of
such substances to be disclosed.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-220) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-24, § 1,
passed 6-19-1990)
§§ 6-3-221—6-3-229 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-3-230 FILING OF DISCLOSURE FORM.
   (A)   Any person who uses or handles a hazardous material must semi-
annually, during the months of January and July, submit a completed disclosure
form to the County Fire Department.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who, during the calendar year, for the first time
becomes a user or handler of any hazardous material must submit a completed
disclosure form to the County Fire Department within 30 days of becoming a user
or handler.
      (2)   Thereafter, any such user or handler shall comply with the
provisions of division (A) above.
   (C)   The County Fire Department may, upon 30 days’ written notice, require
the submittal of a disclosure form of any user or handler.
   (D)   Any person required to submit a disclosure form pursuant to this
section shall file with the County Fire Department an updated disclosure form
within 15 days of any of the following:
      (1)   A change in business address;
      (2)   A change in business ownership;
      (3)   A change of business name;
      (4)   Cessation of business operations;
      (5)   The use or handling of a previously undisclosed hazardous material;
and
      (6)   A significant change in the use or handling of a hazardous material
for which disclosure has been previously made.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-230) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-24, § 1,
passed 6-19-1990)
§§ 6-3-231—6-3-239 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-3-240 CONTENTS OF DISCLOSURE FORM.
   (A)   The disclosure form shall be developed by the Director of Fire
Services, and shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   A copy of the MSDS for every hazardous material used by the person
completing the disclosure form as required by the Fire Department;
      (2)   CAS number as may be required by the Fire Department;
      (3)   SIC code as may be required by the Fire Department;
      (4)   U.N. identification number as may be required by the Fire
Department;
      (5)   A listing of the chemical name and any common names of every
hazardous material used by the person completing the disclosure form;
      (6)   The maximum amount of each hazardous material which is handled or
used at any one time by the user over the course of the year;
      (7)   Specific information on how and where the hazardous materials are
handled or used by the user so as to allow fire and safety personnel to prepare
adequate emergency response plans to potential releases of the hazardous
materials;
      (8)   The names and phone numbers of at least two persons representing
the business and who would be able to assist emergency personnel in the event
of an emergency involving the business during business and nonbusiness hours;
and
      (9)   The hazard characteristics of every hazardous material disclosed,
including, but not limited to, toxicity, flammability, reactivity and
corrosivity as may be required by the Fire Department.
   (B)   Upon request all users must provide the following information:
      (1)   To the Fire Department, any information determined by the Fire
Department to be necessary to protect the public health, safety or the
environment; and
      (2)   To any physician, any information determined by the physician to be
necessary to the medical treatment of their patient.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-240) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-24, § 1,
passed 6-19-1990)
§§ 6-3-241—6-3-249 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-3-250 EXEMPTIONS FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following materials or persons are exempt from the disclosure
requirements of §
6-3-230:
      (1)   A material designated as a hazardous material by this subchapter
solely by its presence in the Nuclear Regulatory Commission list of radioactive
materials shall be exempt from the requirement that an MSDS be submitted with
the disclosure form;
      (2)   Hazardous materials or substances contained in food, drug, cosmetic
or tobacco products shall be exempt from the disclosure requirements;
      (3)   Any person using or handling less than 500 pounds or 55 gallons per
year, whichever is the lesser, of a hazardous material shall be exempted from
the requirement of disclosure of that use or handling, unless the Fire Chief
has provided notice that the weight or volume limit of this exemption for a
specific hazardous material has been lowered in response to public health
concerns or to meet the intent and requirements of the California Fire Code;
      (4)   Hazardous materials contained solely in consumer products packaged
for use by and distributed to the general public shall be exempt from the
disclosure requirements, unless the product is repackaged or altered in any
way; provided, however, the manufacture and distribution of these products are
not exempt;
      (5)   Any person, while engaged in the transportation of hazardous
materials, including storage incident thereto, shall be exempt from the
disclosure requirements; provided that such materials are accompanied by
shipping papers prepared in accordance with the provisions of 49 C.F.R.
Subchapter C, as now in existence or as hereafter amended or changed; and
      (6)   Infectious waste generated by hospitals, medical centers, clinics
and other health care facilities that are regulated under Title 22 of the
California Administrative Code shall be exempt from the disclosure
requirements.
   (B)   The exemptions contained in this section shall not apply to the using
or handling of carcinogens, except to the extent that such carcinogens are
handled or used solely for personal purposes.
   (C)   No MSDS shall be required for any hazardous material for which an MSDS
is not available at the time disclosure is required; provided, however, that
such MSDS shall be submitted to the Fire Department within 15 days after
receipt by the user of the MSDS.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-250) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-24, § 1,
passed 6-19-1990)
§§ 6-3-251—6-3-259 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-3-260 DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION REGARDING HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   The health officer will make information available to fire departments and
emergency response personnel, upon request, regarding hazardous wastes,
extremely hazardous wastes and underground tanks, when the information is
obtained by the health officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-260) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-24, § 1,
passed 6-19-1990)
§§ 6-3-261—6-3-269 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-3-270 IDENTIFICATION OF AREAS WHERE HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IS USED OR HANDLED;
KEY BOXES.
   (A)   When required by the Director of Fire Services, work areas in which
any person uses or handles hazardous material shall be identified as such by
such measures as the Director of Fire Services may specify, including, but not
limited to, signs, color coding, posting lists of materials and MSDS or other
notices.
   (B)   When required by the Director of Fire Services, any person submitting
a disclosure form may be required to install an approved key box for emergency
utilization of MSDS, floor plans, site plans and access keys. The location of
the required key box shall be as designated by the Director of Fire Services.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-270) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-24, § 1,
passed 6-19-1990)
§§ 6-3-271—6-3-279 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-3-280 FEES.
   The City Council may establish by resolution a schedule of fees to be paid
by persons subject to this subchapter which provides for fees in sufficient
amounts to cover the costs of administration resulting from this subchapter, or
it may authorize the County Board of Supervisors to adopt such a schedule of
fees for the administration of the provisions of this subchapter in the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-280) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-24, § 1,
passed 6-19-1990)
§§ 6-3-281—6-3-289 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-3-290 CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   (1)   A user may designate some or all of the information on the
disclosure form as a trade secret.
      (2)   Any information designated as a trade secret contained on the
disclosure form shall not be disclosed to anyone except:
         (a)   An officer or employee of a governmental entity in connection
with the official duties of such officer or employee under any law for the
protection of health;
         (b)   Contractors of governmental entities when, in the opinion of the
Director of Fire Services, disclosure is necessary and required for the
protection of health and the performance of a contract; and
         (c)   Any physician where the physician determines that such
information is necessary for the medical treatment of their patient.
   (B)   Any officer or employee of the city, or former officer or employee,
who by virtue of such employment or official position has obtained possession
of or has access to information, the disclosure of which is prohibited by this
section, and who, knowing that disclosure of the information is prohibited,
knowingly and willfully discloses the information in any manner to any person
not entitled to receive it, shall be in violation of this section. For purposes
of determining a violation of this section, a contractor who has been furnished
information pursuant to this section shall be deemed an employee of the city.
Any physician who has been furnished information or who has obtained
information pursuant to this section and who, knowing that disclosure of the
information is prohibited, knowingly and willfully discloses this information,
shall be in violation of this section.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a request for the release of information to the public
which includes information which the user has notified the Fire Department is a
trade secret pursuant to division (A) above, the Fire Department shall notify
the user in writing of the request by certified mail. The Fire Department shall
release the information 30 days after the day of mailing the notice, unless,
prior to the expiration of the 30 days, the user institutes an action in an
appropriate court for a declaratory judgment that such information is subject
to protection under division (B) above or an injunction prohibiting disclosure
of such information to the general public.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not permit a user to refuse to
disclose information required to be disclosed pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-290) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-2990; Ord. 90-24, § 1,
passed 6-19-1990)
§§ 6-3-291—6-3-294 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-3-295 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Director of Fire Services shall make such rules and regulations as may
be necessary to implement this subchapter, including, but not limited to, the
maintenance of a comprehensive list of substances which would be classified as
hazardous materials under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-295) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-24, § 1,
passed 6-19-1990)
§§ 6-3-296—6-3-299 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-3-300 VIOLATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   Any violation of the provisions of this subchapter shall be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-300) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-24, § 1,
passed 6-19-1990)
§§ 6-3-301—6-3-399 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 5. PROHIBITION OF NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGES INTO STORM SEWERS
****
§ 6-3-400 PURPOSE.
   The City Council determines that the purpose of this subchapter is as
follows:
   (A)   The United States Congress passed the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq., as amended, including § 402(p) therein, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342)
as a mandate, in part, that municipal separate storm sewer systems (MS4s), such
as in the county, obtain permits to “effectively prohibit non-stormwater
discharges into the storm sewers” and “require controls to reduce the discharge
of pollutants to the maximum extent practicable...” This permitting authority
has been delegated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
to the state, which has authorized the California Water Resources Control Board
and its local regulatory agencies, the Regional Water Quality Control Boards,
to control non-point source discharges to the state’s waterways.
   (B)   The San Diego Regional Water Quality Control Board has addressed the
obligation to implement the Clean Water Act by issuing waste discharge
requirements governing runoff for the county, County Flood Control District and
the incorporated cities of South Orange County. These requirements shall be
referred to collectively herein as the national pollution discharge elimination
system (NPDES) permit.
   (C)   The city is a co-permittee under the NPDES permit.
   (D)   Runoff, which includes both stormwater and non-stormwater, is one step
in the cycle of water. However, human activities, such as agriculture,
construction and the operation and maintenance of an urban infrastructure may
result in undesirable discharges of pollutants and certain sediments, which may
accumulate in local drainage channels and waterways and eventually may be
deposited in the waters of the United States.
   (E)   The purpose of this subchapter is to participate in the improvement of
water quality and comply with federal requirements for the control of urban
pollutants to runoff, which enters the network of storm drains throughout the
county.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-400) (Ord. 2010-161, § 2, passed 11-16-2010)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2010-161, § 2, adopted 11-16-2010, repealed the former Subchapter 5, §§
6-3-400 through 6-3-410, and enacted a new Subchapter 5 as set out herein. The
former Subchapter 5 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord.
94-79, § 1, adopted 12-20-1994; Ord. 2003-133, §§ 1 through 4, adopted 12-2-
2003.
§ 6-3-401 RECITALS.
   The City Council finds and declares that the following apply.
   (A)   The city is authorized by Article XI, § 5 and § 7 of the California
Constitution to exercise the police power of the state by adopting regulations
promoting the public health, public safety and general prosperity.
   (B)   The city has determined that a legitimate local purpose is present in
complying with the provisions of the NPDES permit.
   (C)   A reduction in stormwater borne pollution will promote the public
health and protect the general welfare of the locality by reducing the level of
artificial and naturally occurring constituents, which may improve the quality
of the waters in this region.
   (D)   The land use authority exercised by the city, pursuant to California
Government Code, §§ 65300 et seq., requires regional planning and the adoption
of policies protecting the environment through the imposition of reasonable
conditions on the use of land.
   (E)   This subchapter conforms to the policies and goals of the general plan
adopted by the city, pursuant to the California Planning and Zoning Law, being
California Government Code, §§ 65300 et seq., for the protection of the
portions of watersheds located within the county by implementing measures to
control erosion and prevent the pollution of streams and other waters.
   (F)   Certain provisions of this subchapter may be coordinated with the
local coastal program for inclusion in coastal development permits, pursuant to
California Public Resources Code, § 30607, as mitigation for the negative
effects of grading, construction, re-construction and changes to the intensity
of use of land or water resources within the coastal zone.
   (G)   The Subdivision Map Act, California Government Code, § 66411,
authorizes the city to regulate and control the design and improvement of
subdivided lands and mitigate the burdens of proposed development by imposing
reasonable conditions on map approval.
   (H)   California Constitution, Article XI, § 7 and Government Code, § 38660
authorize the city to establish appropriate conditions for the issuance of
building permits, which require the installation of improvements reasonably
related to the proposed use of property.
   (I)   Government Code, § 38771 authorizes the city to declare as public
nuisances undesirable acts which may injure health or cause interference with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property and to provide for the abatement
of the same.
   (J)   The NPDES permit requires that the city:
      (1)   Develop and implement runoff management programs and implementation
plans;
      (2)   Enact legislation and ordinances as necessary to ensure compliance
with the runoff management programs and implementation plans;
      (3)   Pursue enforcement actions as necessary to ensure compliance with
runoff management programs and implementation plans;
      (4)   Prohibit illicit and illegal discharges from entering the
stormwater conveyance systems, subject only to specific exceptions;
      (5)   Ensure adequate response to emergency situations, including spills,
leaks and illicit or illegal discharges; and
      (6)   Develop and require implementation of best management practices
(BMPs) to ensure that pollution is reduced to the maximum extent practicable
(MEP).
   (K)   The city may commence civil actions, pursuant to the federal Clean
Water Act § 505(a), being 33 U.S. C. § 1365(a), against any person or any
governmental agency acting in violation of any condition of the NPDES permit.
   (L)   All industrial dischargers subject to the provisions of the state
industrial general permit and state construction general permit (referred to
collectively herein as the state general permits) must comply with the lawful
requirements of the city, which regulates discharges of runoff to the storm
drain system within its jurisdiction.
   (M)   All industrial dischargers subject to the provisions of the state
general permits are required to maintain stormwater pollution prevention plans
on-site and make them available to the city for inspection.
   (N)   All dischargers subject to the provisions of the state construction
general permit may be required by the city, with the concurrence of the San
Diego Regional Water Board, to amend any stormwater pollution prevention plan.
   (O)   All industrial dischargers subject to the provisions of the state
industrial general permit are required to maintain a description of the
required monitoring program on-site and make it available to the city for
inspection.
   (P)   The city has jurisdiction over certain stormwater facilities and other
watercourses within the city, and the water discharges into these facilities
may be subject to the provisions of the state industrial general permit;
accordingly, the city may certify (but is not required to certify) in writing
that regulated dischargers have developed and implemented effective stormwater
pollution prevention plans and should not be required to collect and analyze
stormwater samples for pollutants.
   (Q)   The city has jurisdiction over certain stormwater facilities and other
watercourses within the city, and these facilities may receive runoff
discharges from properties and activities regulated under the provisions of the
state general permits, and city may request that the regulated dischargers
furnish information and records necessary to determine compliance with the
state general permits.
   (R)   The city has jurisdiction over certain stormwater facilities and other
watercourses within the city, and these facilities may receive runoff
discharges from properties and activities regulated under the provisions of the
state general permits, and city may, upon presentation of credentials and other
documents required by law:
      (1)   Enter upon the discharger’s premises where a regulated facility is
located or where records must be kept under the conditions of the state general
permits;
      (2)   Access and copy, at reasonable times, any records that must be kept
under the conditions of the state general permits;
      (3)   Inspect, at reasonable times, any facility or equipment related to
or impacting runoff discharge; and
      (4)   Sample or monitor for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the
state general permits.
   (S)   The enacting of this subchapter is a condition of the NPDES permit,
the requirements of which are exempt from the California Environmental Quality
Act (CEQA), pursuant to California Public Resources Code, §§ 21000 et seq.,
including, but not limited to, §§ 21083 and 21084.
   (T)   This subchapter is subject to CEQA categorical exemption Classes 1
through 4, 6 through 9, 21 and 22, pursuant to the CEQA Guidelines,
respectively, Title 14, California Code of Regulations, §§ 15301, 15302, 15303,
15304, 15306, 15307, 15308, 15309, 15321 and 15322.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-401) (Ord. 2010-161, § 2, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 6-3-402 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Runoff Water Quality
Control Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-402) (Ord. 2010-161, § 2, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 6-3-403 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED INSPECTOR. The City Director of Public Works/City Engineer and
the City Director of Community Development, and persons designated by and under
their instruction and supervision, who are assigned to investigate compliance
with, detect violations of and/or take action pursuant to this subchapter.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Schedules of activities, pollution
treatment practices or devices, prohibitions of practices, general good
housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and educational practices,
operation and maintenance procedures and other management practices or devices
to prevent or reduce to the maximum extent practicable (MEP) the discharge of
pollutants directly or indirectly to stormwater, receiving waters or the
stormwater drainage system. BMPs may be structural or non-structural, and
include, but are not limited to, site design, source control, treatment control
and natural design methods. BMPs may include any type of pollution prevention
and control measure that can help to achieve compliance with this subchapter.
   CITY. The City of Laguna Niguel, Orange County, California.
   CO-PERMITTEE. The County of Orange, the Orange County Flood Control District
and/or any one of the municipalities, including the city, which are responsible
for compliance with the terms of the NPDES permit.
   DISCHARGE. Any release, spill, leak, pump, flow, escape, leaching (including
subsurface migration or deposition to groundwater), dumping or disposal of any
liquid, semi-solid or solid substance.
   DISCHARGE EXCEPTION.
      (1)   The group of activities not restricted or prohibited by this
subchapter, including only:
         (a)   Discharges composed entirely of stormwater;
         (b)   Discharges authorized by current EPA or Regional Water Quality
Control Board issued NPDES permits, state general permits or other waivers,
permits, regulations or approvals granted by a government agency with
jurisdiction over such discharges;
         (c)   Discharges to the stormwater drainage system from:
            1.   Diverted stream flows;
            2.   Rising ground waters;
            3.   Infiltration to MS4s of groundwater not contaminated by
sewage;
            4.   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
            5.   Foundation drains;
            6.   Springs;
            7.   Water from crawl space pumps;
            8.   Footing drains;
            9.   Air conditioning condensation;
            10.   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
            11.   Water line flushing, except for fire suppression sprinkler
system maintenance and testing discharges;
            12.   Discharges from potable water sources;
            13.   Individual residential car washing;
            14.   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges; and
            15.   Emergency firefighting activities.
         (d)   Discharges authorized pursuant to federal or state laws or
regulations.
      (2)   The discharges set forth in divisions (1)(c)4., (1)(c)5., (1)(c)7.
and (1)(c)8. above may require compliance with a California or Regional Water
Quality Control Board permit for groundwater extraction or similar discharges
to surface waters. The city authorizes this discharge unless the authorized
inspector determines the discharge potentially causes, or threatens to cause, a
condition of pollution, contamination or nuisance.
      (3)   The discharges set forth in divisions (1)(c)11. and (1)(c)12. above
are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter except to the extent that
such discharges are subject to, but not in compliance with, California or
Regional Water Quality Control Board Permits or other local ordinances.
      (4)   In any action taken to enforce this subchapter, the burden shall be
on the person who is the subject of such action to establish that a discharge
was within the scope of this discharge exception.
   ENFORCING ATTORNEY. The City Attorney or district attorney acting as counsel
to the city and their designee, which counsel is authorized to take enforcement
action as described herein. For purposes of criminal prosecution, only the
district attorney and/or City Attorney shall act as the enforcing attorney.
   EPA. The Environmental Protection Agency of the United States.
   HEARING OFFICER. The City Director of Public Works/City Engineer or their
designee, who shall preside at the administrative hearings authorized by this
subchapter and issue final decisions on the matters raised therein. In the
alternative, it shall mean any Appeals Board established by separate resolution
of the City Council, which shall preside at the administrative hearings
authorized by this subchapter and issue final decisions on the matters raised
therein.
   INVOICE FOR COSTS. The actual costs and expenses of the city, including, but
not limited to, administrative overhead, salaries and other expenses
recoverable under state law, incurred during any inspection conducted pursuant
to §
6-3-406, where a notice of noncompliance, administrative compliance order or
other enforcement option under §
6-3-407 is utilized to obtain compliance with this subchapter.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any human-made conveyance or drainage system, pipeline,
conduit, inlet or outlet through which the discharge of any pollutant to the
stormwater drainage system occurs or may occur. The term ILLICIT CONNECTION
shall not include legal nonconforming connections or connections to the
stormwater drainage system that are hereinafter authorized by the agency with
jurisdiction over the system at the location at which the connection is made.
   LEGAL NONCONFORMING CONNECTION. Connections to the stormwater drainage
system existing as of the adoption of this subchapter that were in compliance
with all federal, state and local rules, regulations, statutes and
administrative requirements in effect at the time the connection was
established, including, but not limited to, any discharge permitted pursuant to
the terms and conditions of an individual discharge permit issued pursuant to
the Industrial Waste Ordinance, City Ordinance 90-16.
   LOCAL IMPLEMENTATION PLAN (LIP). The city’s adopted plan for local
implementation of the NPDES permit, including all appendices, as they may be
amended or revised from time to time. The LIP is equivalent to the
Jurisdictional Runoff Management Plan (JRMP), as defined in the NPDES permit.
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE (MEP). The acceptability standard for BMPs
established by Congress in the Clean Water Act § 402(p)(3)(B)(iii), being 33
U.S.C. § 1342(p)(3)(B)(iii), that discharges to MS4s must meet. MEP means using
an effective set of BMPs that can be implemented and still remain practicable.
A BMP is effective if it prevents, reduces or removes pollutants that would
otherwise be present in the runoff due to human activity. A BMP is practicable
if it complies with runoff and other regulations; is compatible with the area’s
land use, character, facilities and activities; is technically feasible
(considering area soil, geography, water resources and other resources
available); is economically feasible; and provides benefits that are reasonable
in relation to costs. MEP generally emphasizes pollution prevention and source
control BMPs (as the first line of defense) in combination with treatment
methods serving as a backup (additional line of defense).
   NEW DEVELOPMENT. All public and private residential (whether single-family,
multi-unit or planned unit development), industrial, commercial, retail and
other nonresidential construction projects, or mass grading for future
construction, for which either a discretionary land use approval, grading
permit, building permit or safety permit is required.
   NPDES PERMIT. The currently applicable municipal discharge permit issued by
the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, San Diego Region, which
permit establishes waste discharge requirements applicable to runoff in the
city.
   PERSON. Any natural person as well as any corporation, partnership,
government entity or subdivision, trust, estate, cooperative association, joint
venture, business entity or other similar entity, or the agent, employee or
representative of any of the above.
   POLLUTANT. Any liquid, solid or semi-solid substances, or combination
thereof, including and not limited to:
      (1)   Artificial materials (such as floatable plastics, wood products or
metal shavings);
      (2)   Household waste (such as trash, paper and plastics; cleaning
chemicals; yard wastes; animal fecal materials; used oil and fluids from
vehicles, lawn mowers and other common household equipment);
      (3)   Metals and non-metals, including compounds of metals and non-metals
(such as cadmium, lead, zinc, copper, silver, nickel, chromium, cyanide
phosphorus and arsenic);
      (4)   Petroleum and related hydrocarbons (such as fuels, lubricants,
surfactants, waste oils, solvents, coolants and grease);
      (5)   Animal wastes (such as discharge from confinement facilities,
kennels, pens and recreational facilities, including stables, show facilities
or polo fields);
      (6)   Substances having a pH less than 6.5 or greater than 8.6, or
unusual coloration, turbidity or odor;
      (7)   Waste materials and wastewater generated on construction sites and
by construction activities (such as painting and staining; use of sealants and
glues; use of lime; use of wood preservatives and solvents; disturbance of
asbestos fibers, paint flakes or stucco fragments; application of oils,
lubricants, hydraulic, radiator or battery fluids; construction equipment
washing; concrete pouring and cleanup; use of concrete detergents; steam
cleaning or sand blasting; use of chemical degreasing or diluting agents; and
use of super chlorinated water for potable water line flushing);
      (8)   Materials causing an increase in biochemical oxygen demand,
chemical oxygen demand or total organic carbon;
      (9)   Materials which contain base/neutral or acid extractable organic
compounds;
      (10)   Those pollutants defined in § 1362(6) of the federal Clean Water
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1362(6); and
      (11)   Any other constituent or material, including, but not limited to,
pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers, fecal coliform, fecal streptococcus or
enterococcus or eroded soils, sediment and particulate materials, in quantities
that will interfere with or adversely affect the beneficial uses of the
receiving waters, flora or fauna of the state.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property, irrespective of ownership, which is not
open to the general public.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE.
      (1)   Any discharge which contains any pollutant, from public or private
property to:
         (a)   The stormwater drainage system;
         (b)   Any upstream flow, which is tributary to the stormwater drainage
system;
         (c)   Any groundwater, river, stream, creek, wash or dry weather
arroyo, wetlands area, marsh, coastal slough; or
         (d)   Any coastal harbor, bay or the Pacific Ocean.
      (2)   The term PROHIBITED DISCHARGE shall not include discharges
allowable under the discharge exception.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The person(s) identified in and responsible for
compliance with the provisions of a water quality management plan (WQMP)
approved by the city.
   SIGNIFICANT REDEVELOPMENT. Development that would create or add at least
5,000 square feet of impervious surfaces on an already developed site.
SIGNIFICANT REDEVELOPMENT includes, but is not limited to: the expansion of a
building footprint; addition to or replacement of a structure; replacement of
an impervious surface that is not part of a routine maintenance activity; and
land disturbing activities related with structural or impervious surfaces.
Replacement of impervious surfaces includes any activity that is not part of a
routine maintenance activity where impervious material(s) are removed, exposing
underlying soil during construction.
   STATE GENERAL PERMIT. Either the waste discharge requirements for discharges
of stormwater associated with industrial activities excluding construction
activities permit (state industrial general permit) or the national pollutant
discharge elimination system (NPDES) general permit for stormwater discharges
associated with construction and land disturbance activities (state
construction general permit) and the terms and requirements of either or both.
In the event the EPA revokes the in-lieu permitting authority of the California
Water Resources Control Board, then the term STATE GENERAL PERMIT shall also
refer to any EPA administered stormwater control program for industrial and
construction activities.
   STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Street gutter, channel, storm drain, constructed
drain, lined diversion structure, wash area, inlet, outlet or other facility,
which is a part of or tributary to the countywide stormwater runoff system and
owned, operated, maintained or controlled by the County of Orange, the Orange
County Flood Control District or any co-permittee city, and used for the
purpose of collecting, storing, transporting or disposing of runoff.
   WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN (WQMP). A plan, prepared in accordance with
the LIP, to mitigate the impacts of runoff from development projects. A WQMP is
equivalent to a standard stormwater mitigation plan (SSMP) as defined in the
NPDES permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-403) (Ord. 2010-161, § 2, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 6-3-404 PROHIBITION ON ILLICIT CONNECTIONS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Construct, maintain, operate and/or utilize any illicit connection;
      (2)   Cause, allow or facilitate any prohibited discharge; and/or
      (3)   Act, cause or permit any agent, employee or independent contractor
to construct, maintain, operate or utilize any illicit connection, or cause,
allow or facilitate any prohibited discharge.
   (B)   The prohibition against illicit connections shall apply irrespective
of whether the illicit connection was established prior to the date of
enactment of this subchapter; however, legal nonconforming connections shall
not become illicit connections until the earlier of the following:
      (1)   For all structural improvements to property installed for the
purpose of discharge to the stormwater drainage system, the expiration of five
years from the adoption of this subchapter; and
      (2)   For all nonstructural improvements to property existing for the
purpose of discharge to the stormwater drainage system, the expiration of six
months following delivery of a notice to the owner or occupant of the property,
which states a legal nonconforming connection has been identified. The notice
of a legal nonconforming connection shall state the date of expiration of use
under this subchapter.
   (C)   A civil or administrative violation of §
6-3-404(A) shall occur irrespective of the negligence or intent of the violator
to construct, maintain, operate or utilize an illicit connection or to cause,
allow or facilitate any prohibited discharge.
   (D)   If an authorized inspector reasonably determines that a discharge,
which is otherwise within the discharge exception, may adversely affect the
beneficial uses of receiving waters, then the authorized inspector may give
written notice to the owner of the property or facility that the discharge
exception shall not apply to the subject discharge following expiration of the
30-day period commencing upon delivery of the notice. Upon expiration of the
30-day period, any such discharge shall constitute a violation of division (A)
above.
   (E)   (1)   The owner or occupant of property on which a legal nonconforming
connection exists may request an administrative hearing, pursuant to the
procedures set forth in §
6-3-407(A)(6) through (A)(10), for an extension of the period allowed for
continued use of the connection.
      (2)   A reasonable extension of use may be authorized by the Director of
Public Works/City Engineer upon consideration of the following factors:
         (a)   The potential adverse effects of the continued use of the
connection upon the beneficial uses of receiving waters;
         (b)   The economic investment of the discharger in the legal
nonconforming connection; and
         (c)   The financial effect upon the discharger of a termination of the
legal nonconforming connection.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-404) (Ord. 2010-161, § 2, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 6-3-405 CONTROL OF RUNOFF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   New development and significant redevelopment.
      (1)   All new development and significant redevelopment within the city
shall be undertaken in accordance with:
         (a)   When required by, and in accordance with the LIP, a WQMP; and
         (b)   Any conditions and requirements established by the Community
Development Department, which are reasonably related to the reduction or
elimination of pollutants in runoff from the project site.
      (2)   When required by the LIP, prior to the issuance by the city of a
grading permit, building permit and/or safety permit for any new development or
significant redevelopment, the property owner shall submit to and obtain the
approval of the community development department of a WQMP. If the new
development or significant redevelopment will be approved without application
for a grading permit, building permit or safety permit, the property owner
shall submit to and obtain the approval of the Community Development Department
of a WQMP prior to the issuance of a discretionary land use approval or, at the
city’s discretion, prior to recordation of a subdivision map.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above, a
WQMP shall not be required for construction of a (one) single-family detached
residence unless the City Community Development Department determines that the
construction may result in the discharge of significant levels of a pollutant
into a tributary to the stormwater drainage system.
      (4)   Compliance with the conditions and requirements of a WQMP shall not
exempt any person from the requirement to independently comply with each
provision of this subchapter.
      (5)   If the City Community Development Department determines that the
project will have a de minimis impact on the quality of runoff, then it may
issue a written waiver of the requirement for preparation and approval of a
WQMP.
      (6)   Each WQMP shall name a responsible party for the project.
      (7)   The owner of a new development or significant redevelopment
project, their successors and assigns and each named responsible party shall
implement and adhere to the terms, conditions and requirements of the approved
WQMP.
      (8)   Each failure by the owner of the property, their successors or
assigns, or a named responsible party, to implement and adhere to the terms,
conditions and requirements of an approved WQMP shall constitute a violation of
this subchapter.
      (9)   The City Community Development Department may require that the WQMP
be recorded with the County Recorder’s office by the property owner. The
signature of the owner of the property, any successive owner or the named
responsible party shall be sufficient for the recording of the plan or any
revised plan and a signature on behalf of the city shall not be required for
recordation.
   (B)   Cost recovery. The costs and expenses of the City Community
Development Department incurred in the review, approval or revision of any WQMP
shall be assessed to the property owner or responsible party and shall be due
and payable to the city. The City Community Development Department may elect to
require a deposit of estimated costs and expenses, and the actual costs and
expenses shall be deducted from the deposit, and the balance, if any, refunded
to the property owner or responsible party.
   (C)   Litter control.
      (1)   No person shall discard any waste material, including, but not
limited to, common household rubbish or garbage of any kind (whether generated
or accumulated at a residence, business or other location), upon any public or
private property, whether occupied, open or vacant, including, but not limited
to, any street, sidewalk, alley, right-of-way, open area or point of entry to
the stormwater drainage system.
      (2)   Every person occupying or having charge and control of private
property on which a prohibited disposal of waste materials occurs shall cause
the property collection and disposal of same.
      (3)   A prohibited disposal of waste materials creates a danger to public
health, safety and welfare, and otherwise threatens the environment, surface
waters and groundwater; therefore, any owner or occupant of private property
who fails to remove waste material within a reasonable time may be charged with
creating a nuisance upon the property.
   (D)   Compliance with BMPs. Every person owning property, conducting any
activity or operation or maintaining any facility shall comply with the
applicable BMPs as identified in the LIP, in order to prevent, to the MEP,
pollutants from entering the stormwater drainage system.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-405) (Ord. 2010-161, § 2, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 6-3-406 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Right to inspect. Prior to commencing any inspection as herein below
authorized, the authorized inspector shall obtain either the consent of the
owner or occupant of the private property or shall obtain an administrative
inspection warrant or criminal search warrant.
   (B)   Entry to inspect. The authorized inspector may enter private property
to investigate the source of any discharge to any public street, inlet, gutter,
storm drain or the stormwater drainage system located within the jurisdiction
of the city.
   (C)   Compliance assessments. The authorized inspector may inspect private
property for the purpose of verifying compliance with this subchapter,
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Identifying products produced, processes conducted, chemicals used
and materials stored on or contained within the property;
      (2)   Identifying point(s) of discharge of all wastewater, process water
systems and pollutants;
      (3)   Investigating the natural slope at the location, including drainage
patterns and human-made conveyance systems;
      (4)   Establishing the location of all points of discharge from the
private property, whether by surface runoff or through a storm drain system;
      (5)   Locating any illicit connection or the source of prohibited
discharge;
      (6)   Evaluating compliance with any WQMP; and
      (7)   Investigating the condition of any legal nonconforming connection.
   (D)   Portable equipment. For purposes of verifying compliance with this
subchapter, the authorized inspector may inspect any vehicle, truck, trailer,
tank truck or other mobile equipment.
   (E)   Records review. The authorized inspector may inspect all records of
the owner or occupant of private property relating to chemicals or processes
presently or previously occurring on-site, including material and/or chemical
inventories, facilities maps or schematics and diagrams, material safety data
sheets, hazardous waste manifests, business plans, pollution prevention plans,
state general permits, stormwater pollution prevention plans as required by a
state general permit, monitoring program plans and any other record(s) relating
to illicit connections, prohibited discharges, a legal nonconforming connection
or any other source of contribution or potential contribution of pollutants to
the stormwater drainage system.
   (F)   Sample and test. The authorized inspector may inspect, sample and test
any area runoff, soils area (including groundwater testing), process discharge,
materials within any waste storage area (including any container contents) and/
or treatment system discharge for the purpose of determining the potential for
contribution of pollutants to the stormwater drainage system. The authorized
inspector may investigate the integrity of all storm drain and sanitary sewer
systems, any legal nonconforming connection or other pipelines on the property
using appropriate tests, including, but not limited to, smoke and dye tests or
video surveys. The authorized inspector may take photographs or videotape, make
measurements or drawings and create any other record reasonably necessary to
document conditions on the property.
   (G)   Monitoring. The authorized inspector may erect and maintain monitoring
devices for the purpose of measuring any discharge or potential source of
discharge to the stormwater drainage system.
   (H)   Test results. The owner or occupant of property subject to inspection
shall, on submission of a written request, receive copies of all monitoring and
test results conducted by the authorized inspector.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-406) (Ord. 2010-161, § 2, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 6-3-407 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Administrative remedies.
      (1)   Notice of noncompliance. The authorized inspector may deliver to
the owner or occupant of any private property, or to any person responsible for
an illicit connection or prohibited discharge a notice of noncompliance. The
notice of noncompliance shall be delivered in accordance with division (A)(5)
below.
         (a)   The notice of noncompliance shall identify the provision(s) of
this subchapter, the applicable WQMP or permit which has been violated. The
notice of noncompliance shall state that continued noncompliance may result in
additional enforcement actions against the owner, occupant and/or person.
         (b)   The notice of noncompliance shall state a compliance date that
must be met by the owner, occupant and/or person; provided, however, that the
compliance date may not exceed 90 days, unless the authorized inspector extends
the compliance deadline an additional 90 days where good cause exists for the
extension.
      (2)   Administrative compliance orders.
         (a)   1.   The authorized inspector may issue an administrative
compliance order. The administrative compliance order shall be delivered in
accordance with division (A)(5) below.
            2.   The administrative compliance order may be issued to:
               a.   The owner or occupant of any private property requiring
abatement of conditions on the property that cause or may cause a prohibited
discharge or an illicit connection in violation of this subchapter;
               b.   The owner of private property or a responsible party
subject to the requirements of any WQMP to ensure implementation of and
adherence to the terms, conditions and requirements of the plan; and/or
               c.   Any person responsible for an illicit connection or
prohibited discharge.
         (b)   The administrative compliance order may include the following
terms and requirements:
            1.   Specific steps and time schedules for compliance as reasonably
necessary to prevent the imminent threat of prohibited discharge, including,
but not limited to, prohibited discharge from any pond, pit, well, surface
impoundment, holding or storage area;
            2.   Specific steps and time schedules for compliance as reasonably
necessary to discontinue any illicit connection;
            3.   Specific requirements for containment, cleanup, removal,
storage, installation of overhead covering or proper disposal of any pollutant
having the potential to contact runoff;
            4.   Any other terms or requirements reasonably calculated to
prevent the imminent threat of or continuing violations of this subchapter,
including, but not limited to, requirements for compliance with BMPs and
guidance documents promulgated by any federal, state or regional agency; and
            5.   Any other terms or requirements reasonably calculated to
achieve full compliance with the terms, conditions and requirements of any
WQMP, or permit issued by the city.
      (3)   Cease and desist orders.
         (a)   1.   The authorized inspector may issue a cease and desist
order. A cease and desist order shall be delivered in accordance with division
(A)(5) below.
            2.   A cease and desist order may direct the owner or occupant of
any private property and/or other person responsible for a violation of this
subchapter to:
               a.   Immediately discontinue any illicit connection or
prohibited discharge to the stormwater drainage system;
               b.   Immediately contain or divert any flow of water off the
property, where the flow is occurring in violation of any provision of this
subchapter;
               c.   Immediately discontinue any other violation of this
subchapter; and
               d.   Clean up the area affected by the violation.
         (b)   The authorized inspector may direct by cease and desist order
that the owner of any private property, the responsible party subject to the
terms and conditions of any WQMP or any permittee under any permit issued by
the city immediately cease any activity not in compliance with the terms,
conditions and requirements of the applicable WQMP or permit.
      (4)   Recovery of costs.
         (a)   The authorized inspector may deliver to the owner or occupant of
any private property, any permittee or any responsible party, or any other
person who becomes subject to a notice of noncompliance or administrative
compliance order, an invoice for costs. An invoice for costs shall be delivered
in accordance with division (A)(5) below. An invoice for costs shall be
immediately due and payable to the city for the actual costs incurred by the
city in issuing and enforcing any notice or order.
         (b)   If any owner or occupant, permittee or responsible party, or any
other person fails to either pay the invoice for costs or appeal successfully
the invoice for costs in accordance with division (A)(6) below, then the
enforcing attorney may institute collection proceedings.
      (5)   Delivery of notice. Any notice of noncompliance, administrative
compliance order, cease and desist order or invoice of costs to be delivered
pursuant to the requirements of this subchapter shall be subject to the
following.
         (a)   The notice shall state that the recipient has a right to appeal
the matter as set forth in divisions (A)(6) through(A)(10) below.
         (b)   Delivery shall be deemed complete upon:
            1.   Personal service to the recipient;
            2.   Deposit in the U.S. mail, postage pre-paid for first class
delivery; or
            3.   Facsimile service with confirmation of receipt.
         (c)   Where the recipient of notice is the owner of the property, the
address for notice shall be the address from the most recently issued equalized
assessment roll for the property or as otherwise appears in the current records
of the city.
         (d)   Where the owner or occupant of any private property cannot be
located after the reasonable efforts of the authorized inspector, a notice of
noncompliance or cease and desist order shall be deemed delivered after posting
on the property for a period of ten business days.
      (6)   Administrative hearing for notices of noncompliance administrative
compliance orders, invoices for costs and adverse determinations. Except as set
forth in division (A)(8) below, any person receiving a notice of noncompliance,
administrative compliance order, a notice of legal nonconforming connection, an
invoice for costs or any person who is subject to any adverse determination
made pursuant to this subchapter, may appeal the matter by requesting an
administrative hearing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, these administrative
appeal procedures shall not apply to criminal proceedings initiated to enforce
this subchapter.
      (7)   Request for administrative hearing. Any person appealing a notice
of noncompliance, an administrative compliance order, a notice of legal
nonconforming connection, an invoice for costs or an adverse determination
shall, within 30 days of receipt thereof, file a written request for an
administrative hearing, accompanied by an administrative hearing fee as
established by separate resolution, with the office of the City Clerk, with a
copy of the request for administrative hearing mailed on the date of filing to
the Director of Public Works/City Engineer. Thereafter, a hearing on the matter
shall be held before the hearing officer within 45 business days of the date of
filing of the written request unless, in the reasonable discretion of the
hearing officer and pursuant to a written request by the appealing party, a
continuance of the hearing is granted.
      (8)   Administrative hearing for cease and desist orders and emergency
abatement actions. An administrative hearing on the issuance of a cease and
desist order or following an emergency abatement action shall be held within
five business days following the issuance of the order or the action of
abatement, unless the hearing (or the time requirement for the hearing) is
waived in writing by the party subject to the cease and desist order or the
emergency abatement. A request for an administrative hearing shall not be
required from the person subject to the cease and desist order or the emergency
abatement action.
      (9)   Hearing proceedings. The authorized inspector shall appear in
support of the notice, order, determination, invoice for costs or emergency
abatement action, and the appealing party shall appear in support of withdrawal
of the notice, order, determination, invoice for costs or in opposition to the
emergency abatement action. The city shall have the burden of supporting any
enforcement or other action by a preponderance of the evidence. Each party
shall have the right to present testimony and other documentary evidence as
necessary for explanation of the case.
      (10)   Final decision and appeal.
         (a)   The final decision of the hearing officer shall issue within ten
business days of the conclusion of the hearing and shall be delivered by first-
class mail, postage prepaid, to the appealing party. The final decision shall
include notice that any legal challenge to the final decision shall be made
pursuant to the provisions of California Code of Civil Procedure, §§ 1094.5 and
1094.6 and shall be commenced within 90 days following issuance of the final
decision.
         (b)   Notwithstanding this division (A)(10), the final decision of the
hearing officer in any preceding determining the validity of a cease and desist
order or following an emergency abatement action shall be mailed within five
business days following the conclusion of the hearing.
      (11)   City abatement. In the event the owner of private property, the
operator of a facility, a permittee, a responsible party or any other person
fails to comply with any provision of a compliance schedule issued pursuant to
this subchapter, the authorized inspector may request the enforcing attorney to
obtain an abatement warrant or other appropriate judicial authorization to
enter the property, abate the condition and restore the area. Any costs
incurred by the city in obtaining and carrying out an abatement warrant or
other judicial authorization may be recovered pursuant to division (B)(4)
below.
   (B)   Nuisance. Any condition in violation of the prohibitions of this
subchapter, including, but not limited to, the maintenance or use of any
illicit connection or the occurrence of any prohibited discharge, shall
constitute a threat to the public health, safety and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance pursuant to California Government Code, § 38771.
      (1)   Court order to enjoin or abatement. At the request of the City
Manager, the enforcing attorney may seek a court order to enjoin and/or abate
the nuisance.
      (2)   Notice to owner and occupant. Prior to seeking any court order to
enjoin or abate a nuisance or threatened nuisance, the City Manager shall
provide notice of the proposed injunction or abatement to the owner and
occupant, if any, of the property where the nuisance or threatened nuisance is
occurring.
      (3)   Emergency abatement. In the event the nuisance constitutes an
imminent danger to public safety or the environment, the authorized inspector
may enter the property from which the nuisance emanates, abate the nuisance and
restore any property affected by the nuisance. To the extent reasonably
practicable, informal notice shall be provided to the owner or occupant prior
to abatement. If necessary to protect the public safety or the environment,
abatement may proceed without prior notice to or consent from the owner or
occupant thereof and without judicial warrant.
         (a)   An imminent danger shall include, but is not limited to, exigent
circumstances created by the dispersal of pollutants, where the same presents a
significant and immediate threat to the public safety or the environment.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the authority of the city to conduct an
emergency abatement action, an administrative hearing pursuant to division (A)
(8) below hereinabove shall follow the abatement action.
      (4)   Reimbursement of costs. All costs incurred by the city in
responding to any nuisance, all administrative expenses and all other expenses
recoverable under state law shall be recoverable from the person(s) creating,
causing, committing or maintaining the nuisance.
      (5)   Nuisance lien.
         (a)   All costs shall become a lien against the property from which
the nuisance emanated and a personal obligation against the owner thereof in
accordance with California Government Code, §§ 38773.1 and 38773.5. The owner
of record of the property subject to any lien shall be given notice of the lien
prior to recording as required by California Government Code, § 38773.1.
         (b)   At the direction of the City Manager, the enforcing attorney is
authorized to collect nuisance abatement costs or enforce a nuisance lien in an
action brought for a money judgment or by delivery to the County Assessor of a
special assessment against the property in accord with the conditions and
requirements of California Government Code, § 38773.5.
   (C)   Criminal sanctions.
      (1)   Prosecutor. The enforcing attorney may act on the request of the
City Manager to pursue enforcement actions in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
      (2)   Infractions. Any person who may otherwise be charged with a
misdemeanor under this subchapter may be charged, at the discretion of the
enforcing attorney, with an infraction punishable by a fine of not more than
$100.00 for a first violation, $200.00 for a second violation and a fine not
exceeding $500.00 for each additional violation occurring within one year.
      (3)   Misdemeanors. Any person who negligently or knowingly violates any
provision of this subchapter, undertakes to conceal any violation of this
subchapter, continues any violation of this subchapter after notice thereof, or
violates the terms, conditions and requirements of any WQMP or permit, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 or by
imprisonment for a period of not more than six months, or both.
   (D)   Consecutive violations. Each day in which a violation occurs and each
separate failure to comply with either a separate provision of this subchapter,
an administrative compliance order, a cease and desist order, an applicable
WQMP or a permit issued by the city, shall constitute a separate violation of
this subchapter punishable by fines or sentences issued in accordance herewith.
   (E)   Non-exclusive remedies. Each and every remedy available for the
enforcement of this subchapter shall be non-exclusive and it is within the
discretion of the authorized inspector or enforcing attorney to seek cumulative
remedies, except that multiple monetary fines or penalties shall not be
available for any single violation of this subchapter.
   (F)   Citations.
      (1)   Pursuant to California Penal Code, § 836.5, the authorized
inspector shall have the authority to cause the arrest of any person committing
a violation of this subchapter. The person shall be released and issued a
citation to appear before a magistrate in accordance with California Penal
Code, §§ 853.5, 853.6 and 853.9, unless the person demands to be taken before a
magistrate. Following issuance of any citation, the authorized inspector shall
refer the matter to the enforcing attorney.
      (2)   Each citation to appear shall state the name and address of the
violator, the provisions of this subchapter violated and the time and place of
appearance before the court, which shall be at least ten business days after
the date of violation. The person cited shall sign the citation giving their
written promise to appear as stated therein. If the person cited fails to
appear, the enforcing attorney may request issuance of a warrant for the arrest
of the person cited.
   (G)   Violations of other laws. Any person acting in violation of this
subchapter also may be acting in violation of the federal Clean Water Act or
the California Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act, being California Water
Code, §§ 13000 et seq., and other laws and also may be subject to sanctions
including civil liability. Accordingly, the enforcing attorney is authorized to
file a citizen suit, pursuant to the federal Clean Water Act § 505(a), being 33
U.S.C. § 1365, seeking penalties, damages and orders compelling compliance, and
other appropriate relief. The enforcing attorney may notify EPA Region IX, the
San Diego Regional Water Quality Control Board or any other appropriate state
or local agency, of any alleged violation of this subchapter.
   (H)   Injunctions. At the request of the City Manager, the enforcing
attorney may cause the filing, in a court of competent jurisdiction, of a civil
action seeking an injunction against any threatened or continuing noncompliance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (I)   Order for reimbursement. Any temporary, preliminary or permanent
injunction issued pursuant hereto may include an order for reimbursement to the
city of all costs incurred in enforcing this subchapter, including costs of
inspection, investigation and monitoring; the costs of abatement undertaken at
the expense of the city; costs relating to restoration of the environment; and
all other expenses as authorized by law.
   (J)   Other civil remedies.
      (1)   The City Manager may cause the enforcing attorney to file an action
for civil damages in a court of competent jurisdiction seeking recovery of:
         (a)   All costs incurred in enforcement of this subchapter, including,
but not limited to, costs relating to investigation, sampling, monitoring,
inspection, administrative expenses, all other expenses as authorized by law
and consequential damages;
         (b)   All costs incurred in mitigating harm to the environment or
reducing the threat to human health; and
         (c)   Damages for irreparable harm to the environment.
      (2)   The enforcing attorney is authorized to file actions for civil
damages resulting from any trespass or nuisance occurring on public land or to
the stormwater drainage system from any violation of this subchapter where the
same has caused damage, contamination or harm to the environment, public
property or the stormwater drainage system.
      (3)   The remedies available to the city, pursuant to the provisions of
this subchapter, shall not limit the right of the city to seek any other remedy
that may be available by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-407) (Ord. 2010-161, § 2, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 6-3-408 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-3-409 INTERAGENCY COOPERATION.
   (A)   The city intends to cooperate with other agencies with jurisdiction
over runoff discharges to ensure that the regulatory purposes underlying runoff
regulations promulgated, pursuant to the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq.), are met.
   (B)   The city may, to the extent authorized by law, elect to contract for
the services of any public agency or private enterprise to carry out the
planning approvals, inspections, permits and enforcement authorized by this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-409) (Ord. 2010-161, § 2, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 6-3-409.1 COMPLIANCE DISCLAIMER.
   Full compliance by any person or entity with the provisions of this
subchapter shall not preclude the need to comply with other local, state or
federal statutory or regulatory requirements, which may be required for the
control of the discharge of pollutants into runoff and/or the protection of
runoff quality.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-409.1) (Ord. 2010-161, § 2, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 6-3-410 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   The provisions of California Code of Civil Procedure, §§ 1094.5 and 1094.6
set forth the procedure for judicial review of any act taken pursuant to this
subchapter. Parties seeking judicial review of any action taken pursuant to
this subchapter shall file such action within 90 days of the occurrence of the
event for which review is sought.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-410) (Ord. 2010-161, § 2, passed 11-16-2010)
§§ 6-3-411—6-3-599 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 6. CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE RECYCLING PROGRAM ****
§ 6-3-600 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the recycling of construction
and demolition waste in order to protect the public health, safety and welfare;
to assist in meeting the city’s obligations under California Waste Management
Act of 1989 (Assembly Bill No. 939, codified in Public Resources Code, §§ 40000
et seq.); and to comply with applicable laws.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-600) (Ord. 2003-131, § 2, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 6-3-601 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any individual, firm, company, limited liability company,
association, partnership, political subdivision, government agency,
municipality, industry, public or private corporation or any other entity
whatsoever which applies to the city for the applicable permits to undertake
any construction or demolition project within the city.
   C&D. Construction and demolition.
   C&D COMPLIANCE OFFICER. The person designated by the Community Development
Director to be authorized and responsible for implementing this subchapter.
   CITY. The City of Laguna Niguel, California.
   CONSTRUCTION. The building, rehabilitation, remodeling, renovation or repair
of any structure or any portion thereof including any tenant improvements to an
existing structure.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Used or discarded materials which results
from the construction or demolition of any structure and which is removed from
the premises during the construction or demolition.
   COVERED PROJECT. All of the projects that are listed in §
6-3-605, which are the following:
      (1)   Re-roofing of a structure with the removal of the existing roof;
      (2)   Renovation of a residential or commercial structure when the
project valuation is $10,000.00 or greater;
      (3)   Renovation that consists of the addition of an accessory structure
or an addition to an existing residential or commercial structure, which is 250
square feet or greater in size, or when the project valuation is $10,000.00 or
greater;
      (4)   New construction of a residential or commercial structure; and
      (5)   Demolition of a residential or commercial structure.
   DEMOLITION. The demolishing, decimating, razing, ruining, tearing down or
wrecking of any structure, whether in whole or in part, and whether the
interior or the exterior of any structure.
   DIVERSION. A reduction in the amount of waste being deposited in landfills
by any of the following methods:
      (1)   Use of new construction methods, approved by the C&D compliance
officer, that reduce the amount of construction and demolition waste generated;
      (2)   On-site reuse of the construction and demolition waste;
      (3)   Delivery of the construction and demolition waste from a site to a
recycling facility as described in this subchapter; or
      (4)   Other methods approved by the C&D compliance officer.
   DIVERSION REQUIREMENT. The percentage of construction and demolition waste
for each project that must be diverted from landfills.
   DIVERT. To use waste for any purpose other than disposal in a landfill or a
transformation facility.
   EXEMPT PROJECT. The projects listed in §
6-3-606.
   PROJECT. Any activity that requires an application to obtain a building
permit, demolition permit, encroachment permit, grading permit or any similar
permit from the city.
   RECYCLE or RECYCLING. The process of collecting, sorting, cleansing,
treating and reconstituting materials that would otherwise become solid waste,
and returning them to the economic mainstream in the form of raw material for
new, reused or reconstituted products which meet the quality standards
necessary to be used in the marketplace.
   RECYCLING FACILITY. A recycling, composting, materials recovery or reuse
facility.
   RENOVATION. Any change, addition or modification in an existing structure.
   REUSE. Further or repeated use of construction or demolition waste.
   SALVAGE. The controlled removal of construction or demolition waste from a
permitted building or demolition site for the purpose of recycling, reuse or
storage for later recycling or reuse.
   SECURITY DEPOSIT. The cash or cash equivalent required to be deposited by an
applicant for a permit for a covered project to ensure that the applicant
complies with the requirements of §
6-3-602.
   STRUCTURE. Any building, commercial building, facility, house, industrial
building, pavement or anything that has been constructed.
   WASTE REDUCTION AND RECYCLING PLAN. The plan to divert construction and
demolition waste from disposal at landfills that is required to be submitted by
applicants for permits for covered projects.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-601) (Ord. 2003-131, § 2, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 6-3-602 DUTIES OF THE C&D COMPLIANCE OFFICER.
   The following are the duties of the C&D compliance officer:
   (A)   Develop and make available to applicants forms for the following:
      (1)   Applications for approval of waste reduction and recycling plans;
      (2)   Posting security deposits for permits for covered projects;
      (3)   Applications for exemption from complying with the diversion
requirements of this subchapter;
      (4)   Applications for refund of security deposits; and
      (5)   Notices of appeal of decisions of the C&D compliance officer.
   (B)   Develop and disseminate a list of qualified recycling facilities;
   (C)   Review covered projects to determine whether diversion of at least 50%
of the construction and demolition waste is possible and to establish for
projects for which such diversion is not possible a lower diversion
requirement;
   (D)   Receive, review, approve, conditionally approve or reject proposed
waste reduction and recycling plans;
   (E)   Determine compliance with the diversion requirements of §
6-3-603;
   (F)   Review and determine whether to grant or deny exemptions from the
diversion requirements, pursuant to §
6-3-604;
   (G)   Determine the amount of the security deposit required for covered
projects, pursuant to §
6-3-605; and
   (H)   Determine whether to forfeit, refund in whole or refund in part
security deposits, pursuant to §
6-3-606.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-602) (Ord. 2003-131, § 2, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 6-3-603 CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS DIVERSION REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   As to each covered project, the applicant shall reuse, recycle or
divert at least 50% of the construction and demolition waste generated from the
project. As to any covered project, the C&D compliance officer may, based on a
review of the project, determine that the 50% diversion requirement is not
possible to obtain, and in such case may establish a lower diversion
requirement.
   (B)   Applicants for permits for covered projects must satisfy the
requirements of division (A) above to reuse, recycle or divert construction and
demolition waste by completing one of the following two sets of actions:
      (1)   Obtaining approval of a waste reduction and recycling plan for the
project from the C&D compliance officer and completing the requirements of the
approved plan; or
      (2)   Obtaining for the project a construction and demolition drop off
box (DOB) service from a solid waste hauler that holds a franchise for solid
waste disposal issued by the city and using that service for the disposal of
all construction and demolition waste from the project that is not reused or
recycled at the site of the project.
   (C)   If an applicant chooses not to use the DOB service for a project, then
the following is required:
      (1)   Submittal of a waste reduction and recycling plan for the project
with the submittal to the city of the application for the applicable permit for
the project;
      (2)   The plan must include the method by which construction waste and
debris will be hauled from the project, the recycling facility to which the
debris is to be taken, all the certifications and licenses for the recycling
facility and a description of the method by which the debris will be recycled
or reused and how much of the debris will be diverted from disposal in a
landfill;
      (3)   The applicant must pay the fee for the review of and determination
of compliance with the waste reduction and recycling plan. This fee shall be
paid at the same time as the submittal of the plan to the city;
      (4)   The applicant must obtain the approval of the plan by the C&D
compliance officer. The C&D compliance officer may impose conditions on the
approval of a plan; and/or
      (5)   The applicant must follow and complete the plan.
   (D)   (1)   The C&D compliance officer shall approve a waste reduction and
recycling plan only if the owner or operator of each recycling facility
identified in the plan has submitted or submits documentation satisfactory to
the C&D compliance officer which demonstrates the following:
         (a)   That the facility has obtained all applicable federal, state and
local permits, and is in full compliance with all applicable regulations; and
         (b)   The percentage of incoming waste from construction and
demolition activities that is diverted from landfill disposal meets the
required minimum percentage set forth in this subchapter.
      (2)   The C&D compliance officer shall make available to each applicant a
current approved list of qualified recycling facilities.
   (E)   A fee for the review and determination of compliance with waste
reduction and recycling plans may be established by resolution of the City
Council.
   (F)   Each applicant who applies for a permit for a covered project shall
post a security deposit to guarantee performance of the diversion requirements
of this subchapter. The security deposit shall be posted with the city at the
same time the permit application is filed, and shall be in the form of cash or
cash equivalent such as a cashier’s check.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-603) (Ord. 2003-131, § 2, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 6-3-604 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following projects are exempt from the requirements of §
6-3-603:
      (1)   Work for which only a plumbing, electrical or mechanical permit is
required;
      (2)   Seismic tie-down projects;
      (3)   Installation of prefabricated patio enclosures and covers when no
foundation or other structural building modifications are required;
      (4)   Installation of prefabricated accessories such as signs or antennas
where no structural building modifications are required;
      (5)   Projects less than 250 square feet in size;
      (6)   Projects which have a valuation of less than $10,000.00;
      (7)   Projects which involve a roof, but the tear-off of the existing
roof is not required;
      (8)   The construction of new fencing; and
      (9)   Construction or demolition work that the C&D compliance officer
determines will not produce construction or demolition waste.
   (B)   (1)   If an applicant for a project wants to obtain an exemption for
that project, then the applicant shall file with the city an application for
exemption.
      (2)   The applicant shall comply with the following.
         (a)   The application shall be filed with the C&D compliance officer.
         (b)   The application will state the facts and reasons supporting the
exemption.
   (C)   The C&D compliance officer shall review each application for
exemptions and determine whether an exemption is allowed by this section and
communicate that decision to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-604) (Ord. 2003-131, § 2, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 6-3-605 SECURITY DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The amount of the security deposit for covered projects shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Two hundred fifty dollars for re-roofing with tear-off of the
existing roof;
      (2)   Five hundred dollars for the renovation of a residential or
commercial structure, where the project valuation is $10,000.00 or greater
(except for renovations consisting of additions, which are addressed in
division (A)(3) below);
      (3)   Seven hundred fifty dollars for a renovation that consists of the
addition of an accessory structure or an addition to an existing residential or
commercial structure, which is 250 square feet or greater in size, or when, the
project valuation is $10,000.00 or greater;
      (4)   One thousand dollars for new construction of a residential or
commercial structure; and
      (5)   One thousand dollars for the demolition of a residential or
commercial structure.
   (B)   The C&D compliance officer may reduce the amount of the security
deposit for a project if they determines that the above deposit is too large
compared to the amount of construction and demolition waste that would be
generated by the project.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-605) (Ord. 2003-131, § 2, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 6-3-606 REFUND OF SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   (A)   An applicant may obtain a refund of a security deposit for a project
by complying with the following.
      (1)   The applicant shall file an application for a refund with the C&D
compliance officer.
      (2)   The application shall include information demonstrating that either
the applicant has complied with the required waste reduction and recycling
plan, or the applicant has obtained and utilized DOB service for the project.
   (B)   The C&D compliance officer shall refund the security deposit for a
project when any of the following apply.
      (1)   The security deposit was erroneously paid or collected.
      (2)   The application for the permit is withdrawn or canceled before any
construction work has commenced.
      (3)   The minimum required diversion percentage of construction and
demolition waste generated by the project was diverted from landfill disposal.
      (4)   The minimum diversion requirement has not been achieved, but the
C&D compliance officer determines that the applicant has made a good faith
effort to comply with the diversion requirements of this subchapter and it is
not practicable or feasible for the applicant to meet the diversion
requirement.
      (5)   The applicant has complied with and performed all the requirements
of the waste reduction and recycling plan for the project.
      (6)   The applicant has obtained DOB service for the project and used the
service at the project site continuously until completion of the project.
   (C)   The C&D compliance officer may authorize a partial refund of a
security deposit when less than the minimum diversion requirement has been met.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-606) (Ord. 2003-131, § 2, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 6-3-607 FORFEITURE OF SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   Applicants shall forfeit the security deposit to the city under the
following circumstances:
   (A)   If the C&D compliance officer determines that the applicant has not
made a good faith effort to comply with this subchapter;
   (B)   If the applicant fails to submit the documentation required by §
6-3-603 within 60 days from the date of the final inspection; or
   (C)   Upon 60 days after permit expiration.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-607) (Ord. 2003-131, § 2, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 6-3-608 USE OF SECURITY DEPOSITS.
   Security deposits, including forfeited security deposits pursuant to §
6-3-607, received by the city shall be used for solid waste and recycling
related purposes and other lawful purposes, including, but not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Payment of refunds, including partial refunds, of security
deposits;
      (2)   Administrative costs of the construction and demolition waste
recycling program which are not covered by the application fee established
pursuant to this subchapter;
      (3)   Programs to divert construction and demolition waste from landfill
disposal and other recycling programs;
      (4)   Programs intended to develop or improve the infrastructure needed
to divert construction and demolition waste from landfill disposal and other
recycling programs; and
      (5)   The funding of additional programs and activities that are approved
by the City Council for any or all of the following purposes:
         (a)   To encourage the salvage, reuse and recycling of solid waste,
including construction and demolition waste;
         (b)   To assist local schools in developing educational programs
relating to recycling and solid waste disposal and implementing waste
reduction, recycling and diversion plans and activities;
         (c)   To develop and implement new recycling or disposal programs for
unique items in the waste stream, including, without limitation, universal
waste, batteries, sharps and fluorescent lights;
         (d)   To develop and implement additional outreach and education
programs and projects that assist the city in achieving its substainability
goals, including energy and water conservation, pollution prevention, reduction
of solid waste from landfill disposal, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions
and similar programs related to environmental issues;
         (e)   Programs and staff for recycling implementation and education
efforts;
         (f)   Educate generators and handlers of solid waste in the city
regarding solid waste recycling and disposal alternatives;
         (g)   Review accuracy of contracted hauler reports, waste reduction
and recycling plans and other records for collection, processing and marketing
of divertible materials and for collection and disposal of municipal solid
waste;
         (h)   To further develop environmental sustainability efforts within
the city; and
         (i)   Transfer to the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-608) (Ord. 2003-131, § 2, passed 10-21-2003; Ord. 2023-224,
§ 2, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 6-3-609 APPEALS.
   (A)   Applicants may appeal to the Community Development Director any
decision of the C&D compliance officer, including denial of exemptions, refusal
to approve waste reduction and recycling plans and refusals to refund security
deposits (also known as “security deposit forfeiture”).
   (B)   A notice of appeal from the decision of the C&D compliance officer
must be filed with the Community Development Director within ten calendar days
of the date that the decision being appealed was made by the C&D compliance
officer.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, security deposit forfeiture shall be
administered as an administrative citation for failure of applicant to fulfill
all construction and demolition waste recycling program requirements. All
notice, notice contents, procedures, administrative hearing requests and
procedures, decisions and rights to judicial review shall be made and enforced
pursuant to Title 1, Chapter 3, Subchapter 2, commencing with §
1-3-11.
   (D)   The notice of appeal shall set forth the particular decision or
decisions being appealed, the reasons the appellant contends that the decision
or decisions are incorrect and all supporting documentation.
   (E)   The failure to file a notice of appeal of a decision made by the C&D
compliance officer within the time prescribed herein shall constitute a waiver
of any complaint or objection to that decision and such decision shall be
final.
   (F)   The Community Development Director shall review the notice of appeal
and supporting documentation, hold a hearing where applicable and render a
decision on the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-609) (Ord. 2003-131, § 2, passed 10-21-2003; Ord. 2023-224,
§ 5, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 6-3-610 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the construction or
demolition of a covered project contrary to or in violation of any provision of
this subchapter.
   (B)   If violations of the provisions of this subchapter exist as to a
project, the issuance of a building permit or a certificate of occupancy for
that project may be withheld until all such violations have been corrected.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such person shall be deemed guilty of
a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter is committed, continued
or permitted, and upon such conviction of any such violation, such person shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $500.00 or by imprisonment for not more
than six months, or by both fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-610) (Ord. 2003-131, § 2, passed 10-21-2003)
§§ 6-3-611—6-3-699 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 7. ORGANIC WASTE DISPOSAL REDUCTION ****
§ 6-3-700 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following words, terms, phrases and
their derivations have the meanings given herein. Terms defined elsewhere in
this chapter shall have the same meanings herein unless expressly defined in
this subchapter. When consistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future tense, and words in the singular number include the
plural number.
   BLUE CONTAINER. Has the same meaning as in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18982(a)(5) and shall be used for the purpose of storage and
collection of source separated recyclable materials or source separated BLUE
CONTAINER organic waste. The body of the BLUE CONTAINER is either blue or black
in color and the lid is blue in color for residential and commercial 35-, 64-
or 96-gallon recyclable materials carts. The body of the BLUE CONTAINER is
white in color and the lid of the container is blue or black in color for two,
three, four or six cubic yard commercial recyclable materials bins.
   CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS. The State of California Code of Regulations.
California Code of Regulations references in this subchapter are preceded with
a number that refers to the relevant Title of the California Code of
Regulations (e.g., “14 California Code of Regulations” refers to Title 14 of
California Code of Regulations).
   CALRECYCLE. California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery, which
is the department designated with responsibility for the state’s recycling and
waste management programs, including developing, implementing and enforcing SB
1383 regulations.
   CITY ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The City Manager, or other executive in charge or
their authorized designee(s), who is/are partially or wholly responsible for
enforcing the ordinance. See also REGIONAL OR COUNTY AGENCY ENFORCEMENT
OFFICIAL.
   COMMERCIAL BUSINESS or COMMERCIAL. A firm, partnership, proprietorship,
joint-stock company, corporation or association, whether for-profit or
nonprofit, strip mall, industrial facility or a multi-family residential
dwelling, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982
(a)(6). A multi-family residential dwelling that consists of fewer than five
units is not a COMMERCIAL BUSINESS for purposes of implementing this
subchapter.
   COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR. Includes a tier one or a tier two
commercial edible food generator, as defined in §§
6-3-700 or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982
(a)(73) and (a)(74). For the purposes of this definition, food recovery
organizations and food recovery services are not COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD
GENERATORS pursuant to 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(7).
   COMPLIANCE REVIEW. A review of records by the city to determine compliance
with this subchapter.
   COMMUNITY COMPOSTING. Any activity that composts green material,
agricultural material, food material and vegetative food material, alone or in
combination, and the total amount of feedstock and compost on-site at any one
time does not exceed 100 cubic yards and 750 square feet, as specified in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 17855(a)(4); or as otherwise defined by 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(8).
   COMPOST. Has the same meaning as in 14 California Code of Regulations, §
17896.2(a)(4), which stated, as of the effective date of this subchapter, that
COMPOST means the product resulting from the controlled biological
decomposition of organic solid wastes that are source separated from the
municipal solid waste stream, or which are separated at a centralized facility.
   COMPOSTABLE PLASTICS or COMPOSTABLE PLASTIC. Plastic materials that meet the
ASTM D6400 standard for compostability, or as otherwise described in 14
California Code of Regulations, §§ 18984.1(a)(1)(A) or 18984.2(a)(1)(C).
   CONTAINER CONTAMINATION or CONTAMINATED CONTAINER. A container, regardless
of color, that contains prohibited container contaminants, or as otherwise
defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(55).
   C&D. Construction and demolition debris.
   DESIGNEE. An entity that the city contracts with or otherwise arranges to
carry out any of the city’s responsibilities of this subchapter as authorized
in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18981.2. A DESIGNEE may be a government
entity, a hauler, a private entity or a combination of those entities.
   DIRECT SERVICE PROVIDER. A person, company, agency, district or other entity
that provides a service or services to city pursuant to a contract or other
written agreement or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations,
§ 18982(a)(17).
   EDIBLE FOOD. Food intended for human consumption or as otherwise defined in
14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(18). For the purposes of this
subchapter or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, §
18982(a)(18), EDIBLE FOOD is not solid waste if it is recovered and not
discarded. Nothing in this subchapter or in 14 California Code of Regulations,
Division 7, Chapter 12 requires or authorizes the recovery of edible food that
does not meet the food safety requirements of the California Retail Food Code,
being California Health and Safety Code, §§ 113700 et seq.
   ENFORCEMENT ACTION. An action of the city to address non-compliance with
this subchapter, including, but not limited to, issuing administrative
citations, fines, penalties or using other remedies.
   EXCLUDED WASTE. Hazardous substance, hazardous waste, infectious waste,
designated waste, volatile, corrosive, medical waste, infectious, regulated
radioactive waste and toxic substances or material that facility operator(s),
which receive materials from the city and its generators, reasonably believe(s)
would, as a result of or upon acceptance, transfer, processing or disposal, be
a violation of local, state or federal law, regulation or ordinance, including:
land use restrictions or conditions, waste that cannot be disposed of in Class
III landfills or accepted at the facility by permit conditions, waste that in
city’s, or its designee’s reasonable opinion would present a significant risk
to human health or the environment, cause a nuisance or otherwise create or
expose city, or its designee, to potential liability; but not including de
minimis volumes or concentrations of waste of a type and amount normally found
in single-family or multi-family solid waste after implementation of programs
for the safe collection, processing, recycling, treatment and disposal of
batteries and paint in compliance with the California Public Resources Code, §§
41500 and 41802. EXCLUDED WASTE does not include used motor oil and filters,
household batteries, universal wastes, electronic waste and/or latex paint when
such materials are defined as allowable materials for collection through the
city’s collection programs and the generator or customer has properly placed
the materials for collection, pursuant to instructions provided by city or its
designee for collection services.
   FOOD DISTRIBUTOR. A company that distributes food to entities, including,
but not limited to, supermarkets and grocery stores, or as otherwise defined in
14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(22).
   FOOD FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in the California Health and Safety
Code, § 113789.
   FOOD RECOVERY. Actions to collect and distribute food for human consumption
that otherwise would be disposed, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code
of Regulations, § 18982(a)(24).
   FOOD RECOVERY ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   An entity that engages in the collection or receipt of edible food
from commercial edible food generators and distributes that edible food to the
public for food recovery either directly or through other entities or as
otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(25),
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   A food bank, as defined in the California Health and Safety
Code, § 113783;
         (b)   A nonprofit charitable organization, as defined in the
California Health and Safety Code, § 113841; and
         (c)   A nonprofit charitable temporary food facility, as defined in
the California Health and Safety Code, § 113842.
      (2)   A food recovery organization is not a commercial edible food
generator for the purposes of this subchapter and implementation of 14
California Code of Regulations, Division 7, Chapter 12 pursuant to 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(7).
      (3)   If the definition in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)
(25) for food recovery organization differs from this definition, the
definition in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(25) shall apply to
this subchapter.
   FOOD RECOVERY SERVICE. A person or entity that collects and transports
edible food from a commercial edible food generator to a food recovery
organization or other entities for food recovery, or as otherwise defined in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(26). A FOOD RECOVERY SERVICE is not
a commercial edible food generator for the purposes of this subchapter and
implementation of 14 California Code of Regulations, Division 7, Chapter 12
pursuant to 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(7).
   FOOD SCRAPS. All food such as, but not limited to, fruits, vegetables, meat,
poultry, seafood, shellfish, bones, rice, beans, pasta, bread, cheese, fats,
oils, grease and eggshells.
   FOOD SERVICE PROVIDER. An entity primarily engaged in providing food
services to institutional, governmental, commercial or industrial locations of
others based on contractual arrangements with these types of organizations, or
as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(27).
   FOOD-SOILED PAPER. Compostable paper material that has come in contact with
food or liquid, such as, but not limited to, compostable paper plates, paper
coffee cups, napkins, pizza boxes and milk cartons.
   FOOD WASTE. Food scraps.
   GRAY CONTAINER. Has the same meaning as in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18982(a)(28) and shall be used for the purpose of storage and
collection of GRAY CONTAINER waste. The body and lid of the GRAY CONTAINER is
black in color for 35-, 64- or 95-gallon residential and commercial solid waste
carts. The body of the GRAY CONTAINER is blue in color and the lid of the
container is black in color for commercial two, three, four and six cubic yard
solid waste bins.
   GRAY CONTAINER WASTE. Solid waste that is collected in a gray container that
is part of a three-container organic waste collection service that prohibits
the placement of organic waste in the gray container as specified in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18984.1(a) and (b), or as otherwise defined
in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 17402(a)(6.5).
   GREEN CONTAINER. Has the same meaning as in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18982(a)(29) and shall be used for the purpose of storage and
collection of source separated GREEN CONTAINER organic waste. The lid of the
GREEN CONTAINER is green in color and the body is black in color for
residential and commercial 35-, 64- or 95-gallon organic waste carts. The body
of the GREEN CONTAINER is white in color and the lid of the container is green
in color for commercial two-yard organic waste bins.
   GROCERY STORE. A store primarily engaged in the retail sale of canned food;
dry goods; fresh fruits and vegetables; fresh meats, fish and poultry; and any
area that is not separately owned within the store where the food is prepared
and served, including a bakery, deli and meat and seafood departments, or as
otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(30).
   HAULER ROUTE. The designated itinerary or sequence of stops for each segment
of the city’s collection service area, or as otherwise defined in 14 California
Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(31.5).
   HIGH DIVERSION ORGANIC WASTE PROCESSING FACILITY. A facility that is in
compliance with the reporting requirements of 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18815.5(d) and meets or exceeds an annual average mixed waste
organic content recovery rate of 50% between January 1, 2022 and December 31,
2024, and 75% after January 1, 2025, as calculated pursuant to 14 California
Code of Regulations, § 18815.5(e) for organic waste received from the MIXED
WASTE ORGANIC COLLECTION STREAM, as defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 17402(a)(11.5); or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18982(a)(33).
   INSPECTION. A site visit where the city reviews records, containers and an
entity’s collection, handling, recycling or landfill disposal of organic waste
or edible food handling to determine if the entity is complying with
requirements set forth in this subchapter, or as otherwise defined in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(35).
   LARGE EVENT. An event, including, but not limited to, a sporting event or a
flea market, that charges an admission price, or is operated by a local agency,
and serves an average of more than 2,000 individuals per day of operation of
the event, at a location that includes, but is not limited to, a public,
nonprofit or privately-owned park, parking lot, golf course, street system or
other open space when being used for an event. If the definition in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(38) differs from this definition,
the definition in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(38) shall apply
to this subchapter.
   LARGE VENUE. A permanent venue facility that annually seats or serves an
average of more than 2,000 individuals within the grounds of the facility per
day of operation of the venue facility. For purposes of this subchapter and
implementation of 14 California Code of Regulations, Division 7, Chapter 12, a
venue facility includes, but is not limited to, a public, nonprofit or
privately-owned or operated stadium, amphitheater, arena, hall, amusement park,
conference or civic center, zoo, aquarium, airport, racetrack, horse track,
performing arts center, fairground, museum, theater or other public attraction
facility. For purposes of this subchapter and implementation of 14 California
Code of Regulations, Division 7, Chapter 12, a site under common ownership or
control that includes more than one large venue that is contiguous with other
large venues in the site, is a single LARGE VENUE. If the definition in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(39) differs from this definition,
the definition in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(39) shall apply
to this subchapter.
   LOCAL EDUCATION AGENCY. A school district, charter school or county office
of education that is not subject to the control of city or county regulations
related to solid waste, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18982(a)(40).
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING or MULTI-FAMILY. Of, from or pertaining to
residential premises with five or more dwelling units. MULTI-FAMILY premises do
not include hotels, motels or other transient occupancy facilities, which are
considered commercial businesses.
   MWELO. Refers to the Model Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance (MWELO), 23
California Code of Regulations, Division 2, Chapter 2.7.
   NON-COMPOSTABLE PAPER. Includes, but is not limited to, paper that is coated
in a plastic material that will not breakdown in the composting process, or as
otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(41).
   NON-LOCAL ENTITY. The following entities that are not subject to the city’s
enforcement authority, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18982(a)(42):
      (1)   Federal facilities located within the boundaries of the city,
including the Chet Holifield Federal Building; and
      (2)   State agencies located within the boundaries of the city, including
all public school locations.
   NON-ORGANIC RECYCLABLES. Non-putrescible and non-hazardous recyclable
wastes, including, but not limited to, bottles, cans, metals, plastics and
glass, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)
(43).
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION (NOV). A notice that a violation has occurred that
includes a compliance date to avoid an action to seek penalties, or as
otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(45) or
further explained in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18995.4.
   ORGANIC WASTE. Solid wastes containing material originated from living
organisms and their metabolic waste products, including, but not limited to,
food, green material, landscape and pruning waste, organic textiles and
carpets, lumber, wood, paper products, printing and writing paper, manure,
biosolids, digestate and sludges or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code
of Regulations, § 18982(a)(46). BIOSOLIDS and DIGESTATE are as defined by 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a).
   ORGANIC WASTE GENERATOR. A person or entity that is responsible for the
initial creation of organic waste, or as otherwise defined in 14 California
Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(48).
   PAPER PRODUCTS. Include, but are not limited to, paper janitorial supplies,
cartons, wrapping, packaging, file folders, hanging files, corrugated boxes,
tissue and toweling, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18982(a)(51).
   PRINTING and WRITING PAPERS. Include, but are not limited to, copy,
xerographic, watermark, cotton fiber, offset, forms, computer printout paper,
white wove envelopes, manila envelopes, book paper, note pads, writing tablets,
newsprint and other uncoated writing papers, posters, index cards, calendars,
brochures, reports, magazines and publications, or as otherwise defined in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(54).
   PROHIBITED CONTAINER CONTAMINANTS. The following:
      (1)   Discarded materials placed in the blue container that are not
identified as acceptable source separated recyclable materials for the city’s
blue container;
      (2)   Discarded materials placed in the green container that are not
identified as acceptable source separated green container organic waste for the
city’s green container;
      (3)   Discarded materials placed in the gray container that are
acceptable source separated recyclable materials and/or source separated green
container organic wastes to be placed in city’s green container and/or blue
container; and
      (4)   Excluded waste placed in any container.
   RECOVERED ORGANIC WASTE PRODUCTS. Products made from state, landfill-
diverted recovered organic waste processed in a permitted or otherwise
authorized facility or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18982(a)(60).
   RECOVERY. Any activity or process described in 14 California Code of
Regulations § 18983.1(b), or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18982(a)(49).
   RECYCLED-CONTENT PAPER. Paper products and printing and writing paper that
consists of at least 30%, by fiber weight, postconsumer fiber or as otherwise
defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(61).
   REGIONAL AGENCY. Regional agency as defined in California Public Resources
Code, § 40181.
   REGIONAL OR COUNTY AGENCY ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. A regional or county agency
enforcement official, designated by the city with responsibility for enforcing
the ordinance in conjunction or consultation with city enforcement official.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of food
and drinks for on-premises or immediate consumption, or as otherwise defined in
14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(64).
   ROUTE REVIEW. A visual inspection of containers along a hauler route for the
purpose of determining container contamination, and may include mechanical
inspection methods, such as the use of cameras, or as otherwise defined in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(65).
   SB 1383. Senate Bill 1383 of 2016 approved by the Governor on September 19,
2016, which added §§ 39730.5, 39730.6, 39730.7 and 39730.8 to the California
Health and Safety Code, and added Chapter 13.1 (commencing with § 42652) to
Part 3 of Division 30 of the California Public Resources Code, establishing
methane emissions reduction targets in a statewide effort to reduce emissions
of short-lived climate pollutants as amended, supplemented, superseded and
replaced from time to time.
   SB 1383 ELIGIBLE MULCH. Mulch eligible to meet the annual recovered organic
waste product procurement target, pursuant to 14 California Code of
Regulations, Chapter 12 of Division 7. This SB 1383 ELIGIBLE MULCH shall meet
the following conditions for the duration of the applicable procurement
compliance year, as specified by 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18993.1
(f)(4):
      (1)   Produced at one of the following facilities:
         (a)   A compostable material handling operation or facility, as
defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 17852(a)(12), that is permitted
or authorized under 14 California Code of Regulations, Division 7, other than a
chipping and grinding operation or facility as defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 17852(a)(10);
         (b)   A transfer/processing facility or transfer/processing operation
as defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 17402(a)(30) and (a)(31),
respectively, that is permitted or authorized under 14 California Code of
Regulations, Division 7; or
         (c)   A solid waste landfill as defined in California Public Resources
Code, § 40195.1 that is permitted under 27 California Code of Regulations,
Division 2.
      (2)   Meet or exceed the physical contamination, maximum metal
concentration and pathogen density standards for land application specified in
14 California Code of Regulations, § 17852(a)(24.5)(A)1 through 3, as enforced
by §
6-3-708(A).
   SB 1383 REGULATIONS or SB 1383 REGULATORY. The short-lived climate
pollutants; organic waste reduction regulations developed by CalRecycle and
adopted in 2020 that created 14 California Code of Regulations, Division 7,
Chapter 12 and amended portions of regulations of 14 California Code of
Regulations and 27 California Code of Regulations.
   SELF-HAULER. A person, who hauls solid waste, organic waste or recyclable
material they have generated to another person. SELF-HAULER also includes a
person who back-hauls waste, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18982(a)(66). BACK-HAUL means generating and transporting
organic waste to a destination owned and operated by the generator using the
generator’s own employees and equipment, or as otherwise defined in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(66)(A).
   SINGLE-FAMILY. Of, from or pertaining to any residential premises with fewer
than five units.
   SOLID WASTE. Has the same meaning as defined in California Public Resources
Code, § 40191, which defines solid waste as all putrescible and nonputrescible
solid, semisolid and liquid wastes, including garbage, trash, refuse, paper,
rubbish, ashes, industrial wastes, demolition and construction wastes,
abandoned vehicles and parts thereof, discarded home and industrial appliances,
dewatered, treated or chemically fixed sewage sludge which is not hazardous
waste, manure, vegetable or animal solid and semi-solid wastes, and other
discarded solid and semisolid wastes, with the exception that SOLID WASTE does
not include any of the following wastes:
      (1)   Hazardous waste, as defined in the California Public Resources
Code, § 40141;
      (2)   Radioactive waste regulated pursuant to the California Radiation
Control Law (Chapter 8 (commencing with § 114960) of Part 9 of Division 104 of
the California Health and Safety Code); and
      (3)   Medical waste regulated pursuant to the California Medical Waste
Management Act (Part 14 (commencing with § 117600) of Division 104 of the
California Health and Safety Code). Untreated medical waste shall not be
disposed of in a SOLID WASTE landfill, as defined in California Public
Resources Code, § 40195.1. Medical waste that has been treated and deemed to be
SOLID WASTE shall be regulated pursuant to Division 30 of the California Public
Resources Code.
   SOURCE SEPARATED. Materials, including commingled recyclable materials, that
have been separated or kept separate from the solid waste stream, at the point
of generation, for the purpose of additional sorting or processing those
materials for recycling or reuse in order to return them to the economic
mainstream in the form of raw material for new, reused or reconstituted
products, which meet the quality standards necessary to be used in the
marketplace, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code of Regulations, §
17402.5(b)(4). For the purposes of this subchapter, SOURCE SEPARATED shall
include separation of materials by the generator, property owner, property
owner’s employee, property manager or property manager’s employee into
different containers for the purpose of collection such that SOURCE SEPARATED
materials are separated from gray container waste or other solid waste for the
purposes of collection and processing.
   SOURCE SEPARATED BLUE CONTAINER ORGANIC WASTE. Source separated organic
wastes that can be placed in a blue container that is limited to the collection
of those organic wastes and non-organic recyclables, as defined in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(43), or as otherwise defined by 14
California Code of Regulations, § 17402(a)(26.7).
   SOURCE SEPARATED GREEN CONTAINER ORGANIC WASTE. Source separated organic
waste that can be placed in a green container that is specifically intended for
the separate collection of organic waste by the generator, excluding source
separated blue container organic waste, carpets, non-compostable paper and
textiles.
   SOURCE SEPARATED RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Source separated non-organic
recyclables and source separated blue container organic waste.
   STATE. The State of California.
   SUPERMARKET. A full-line, self-service retail store with gross annual sales
of $2,000,000.00, or more, and which sells a line of dry grocery, canned goods
or nonfood items and some perishable items, or as otherwise defined in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(71).
   TIER ONE COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR.
      (1)   A commercial edible food generator that is one of the following:
         (a)   Supermarket;
         (b)   Grocery store with a total facility size equal to or greater
than 10,000 square feet;
         (c)   Food service provider;
         (d)   Food distributor; and
         (e)   Wholesale food vendor.
      (2)   If the definition in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)
(73) of tier one commercial edible food generator differs from this definition,
the definition in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(73) shall apply
to this subchapter.
   TIER TWO COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR.
      (1)   A commercial edible food generator that is one of the following:
         (a)   Restaurant with 250 or more seats, or a total facility size
equal to or greater than 5,000 square feet;
         (b)   Hotel with an on-site food facility and 200 or more rooms;
         (c)   Health facility with an on-site food facility and 100 or more
beds;
         (d)   Large venue;
         (e)   Large event;
         (f)   A state agency with a cafeteria with 250 or more seats or total
cafeteria facility size equal to or greater than 5,000 square feet; and
         (g)   A local education agency facility with an on-site food facility.
      (2)   If the definition in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)
(74) of TIER TWO COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR differs from this definition,
the definition in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18982(a)(74) shall apply
to this subchapter.
   WHOLESALE FOOD VENDOR. A business or establishment engaged in the merchant
wholesale distribution of food, where food (including fruits and vegetables) is
received, shipped, stored, prepared for distribution to a retailer, warehouse,
distributor or other destination, or as otherwise defined in 14 California Code
of Regulations, § 18982(a)(76).
(Prior Code, § 6-3-700) (Ord. 2021-209, § 1, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 6-3-701 REQUIREMENTS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY GENERATORS.
   Single-family organic waste generators shall comply with the following
requirements except single-family generators that meet the self-hauler
requirements in §
6-3-707:
   (A)   Shall subscribe to the city’s organic waste collection services for
all organic waste generated as described in division (B) below. The city shall
have the right to review the number and size of a generator’s containers to
evaluate adequacy of capacity provided for each type of collection service for
proper separation of materials and containment of materials; and single-family
generators shall adjust its service level for its collection services as
requested by the city. Generators may additionally manage their organic waste
by preventing or reducing their organic waste, managing organic waste on site
and/or using a community composting site pursuant to 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18984.9(c); and
   (B)   Shall participate in the city’s organic waste collection service(s) by
placing designated materials in designated containers as described below, and
shall not place prohibited container contaminants in collection containers.
      (1)   Generator shall place source separated green container organic
waste, including food waste, in the green container; source separated
recyclable materials in the blue container; and gray container waste in the
gray container.
      (2)   Generators shall not place materials designated for the gray
container into the green container or blue container.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-701) (Ord. 2021-209, § 1, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 6-3-702 REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL BUSINESSES.
   Generators that are commercial businesses. including multi-family
residential dwellings, shall:
   (A)   Subscribe to the city’s three-container collection services and comply
with requirements of those services as described below in division (B) below,
except commercial businesses that meet the self-hauler requirements in §
6-3-707. The city shall have the right to review the number and size of a
generator’s containers and frequency of collection to evaluate adequacy of
capacity provided for each type of collection service for proper separation of
materials and containment of materials; and commercial businesses shall adjust
their service level for their collection services as requested by the city;
   (B)   Except commercial businesses that meet the self-hauler requirements in
§
6-3-707, participate in the city’s organic waste collection service(s) by
placing designated materials in designated containers as described below.
      (1)   Generator shall place source separated green container organic
waste, including food waste, in the green container; source separated
recyclable materials in the blue container; and gray container waste in the
gray container.
      (2)   Generator shall not place materials designated for the gray
container into the green container or blue container.
   (C)   Supply and allow access to adequate number, size and location of
collection containers with sufficient labels or colors (conforming with
division (D)(1) and (D)(2) below) for employees, contractors, tenants and
customers, consistent with city’s blue container, green container and gray
container collection service or, if self-hauling, per the commercial
businesses, instructions to support its compliance with its self-haul program,
in accordance with §
6-3-707;
   (D)   Excluding multi-family residential dwellings, provide containers for
the collection of source separated green container organic waste and source
separated recyclable materials in all indoor and outdoor areas where disposal
containers are provided for customers, for materials generated by that
business. Such containers do not need to be provided in restrooms. If a
commercial business does not generate any of the materials that would be
collected in one type of container, then the business does not have to provide
that particular container in all areas where disposal containers are provided
for customers.
      (2)   Pursuant to 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18984.9(b), the
containers provided by the business shall have either:
         (a)   A body or lid that conforms with the container colors provided
through the collection service provided by city, with either lids conforming to
the color requirements or bodies conforming to the color requirements or both
lids and bodies conforming to color requirements. A commercial business is not
required to replace functional containers, including containers purchased prior
to January 1, 2022, that do not comply with the requirements of this division
(D) prior to the end of the useful life of those containers, or prior to
January 1, 2036, whichever comes first; or
         (b)   Container labels that include language or graphic images, or
both, indicating the primary material accepted and the primary materials
prohibited in that container, or containers with imprinted text or graphic
images that indicate the primary materials accepted and primary materials
prohibited in the container. Pursuant 14 California Code of Regulations, §
18984.8, the container labeling requirements are required on new containers
commencing January 1, 2022.
   (E)   Multi-family residential dwellings are not required to comply with
container placement requirements or labeling requirement in division (D) above,
pursuant to 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18984.9(b);
   (F)   To the extent practical through education, training, inspection and/or
other measures, excluding multi-family residential dwellings, prohibit
employees from placing materials in a container not designated for those
materials per the city’s blue container, green container and gray container
collection service or, if self-hauling, per the commercial businesses’
instructions to support its compliance with its self-haul program, in
accordance with §
6-3-707;
   (G)   Excluding multi-family residential dwellings, periodically inspect
blue containers, green containers and gray containers for contamination and
inform employees if containers are contaminated and of the requirements to keep
contaminants out of those containers pursuant to 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18984.9(b)(3);
   (H)   Annually provide information to employees, contractors, tenants and
customers about organic waste recovery requirements and about proper sorting of
source separated green container organic waste and source separated recyclable
materials;
   (I)   Provide education information before or within 14 days of occupation
of the premises to new tenants that describes requirements to keep source
separated green container organic waste and source separated recyclable
materials separate from gray container waste (when applicable) and the location
of containers and the rules governing their use at each property;
   (J)   Provide or arrange access for city or its agent to their properties
during all inspections conducted in accordance with §
6-3-711 to confirm compliance with the requirements of this subchapter;
   (K)   If a commercial business wants to self-haul, meet the self-hauler
requirements in §
6-3-707;
   (L)   Nothing in this section prohibits a generator from preventing or
reducing waste generation, managing organic waste on site or using a community
composting site pursuant to 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18984.9(c);
and
   (M)   Commercial businesses that are tier one or tier two commercial edible
food generators shall comply with food recovery requirements, pursuant to §
6-3-704.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-702) (Ord. 2021-209, § 1, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 6-3-703 WAIVERS FOR GENERATORS.
   (A)   De minimis waivers. The city may waive a commercial business’
obligation (including multi-family residential dwellings) to comply with some
or all of the organic waste requirements of this subchapter if the commercial
business provides documentation or if the city has evidence demonstrating, that
the business generates below a certain amount of organic waste material as
described in division (A)(2) below. If the city has sufficient evidence
demonstrating that a commercial business generates below a certain amount of
organic waste as described in division (A)(2) below, it may verify that the
commercial businesses’ organic waste generation meets the threshold without the
receipt of a waiver application as described in division (A)(1) below. As part
of the organic waste generation verification process, the city may request
documentation from the commercial business as described in division (A)(2)
below. Commercial businesses requesting a de minimis waiver shall:
      (1)   Submit an application specifying the services that they are
requesting a waiver from and provide documentation as noted in division (A)(2)
below;
      (2)   Provide documentation that either:
         (a)   The commercial business’ total solid waste collection service is
two cubic yards or more per week and organic waste subject to collection in a
blue container or green container comprises less than 20 gallons per week per
applicable container of the business’ total waste; or
         (b)   The commercial business’ total solid waste collection service is
less than two cubic yards per week and organic waste subject to collection in a
blue container or green container comprises less than ten gallons per week per
applicable container of the business’ total waste.
      (3)   Notify city if circumstances change such that commercial business’s
organic waste exceeds threshold required for waiver, in which case waiver will
be rescinded; and
      (4)   Provide written verification of eligibility for de minimis waiver
every five years, if city has approved de minimis waiver.
   (B)   Physical space waivers.
      (1)   City may waive a commercial business’ or property owner’s
obligations (including multi-family residential dwellings) to comply with some
or all of the recyclable materials and/or organic waste collection service
requirements if the city has evidence from its own staff, a hauler, licensed
architect or licensed engineer demonstrating that the premises lacks adequate
space for the collection containers required for compliance with the organic
waste collection requirements of §§
6-3-701 or
6-3-702.
      (2)   A commercial business or property owner may request a physical
space waiver through the following process:
         (a)   Submit an application form specifying the type(s) of collection
services for which they are requesting a compliance waiver;
         (b)   Provide documentation that the premises lacks adequate space for
blue containers and/or green containers including documentation from its
hauler, licensed architect or licensed engineer; and
         (c)   Provide written verification to city that it is still eligible
for physical space waiver every five years, if city has approved application
for a physical space waiver.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-703) (Ord. 2021-209, § 1, passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 2023-224, §
3, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 6-3-704 REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATORS.
   (A)   Tier one commercial edible food generators must comply with the
requirements of this section commencing January 1, 2022, and tier two
commercial edible food generators must comply commencing January 1, 2024,
pursuant to 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18991.3.
   (B)   Large venue or large event operators not providing food services, but
allowing for food to be provided by others, shall require food facilities
operating at the large venue or large event to comply with the requirements of
this section, commencing January 1, 2024.
   (C)   Commercial edible food generators shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Arrange to recover the maximum amount of edible food that would
otherwise be disposed;
      (2)   Contract with, or enter into a written agreement with, food
recovery organizations or food recovery services for:
         (a)   The collection of edible food for food recovery; or
         (b)   Acceptance of the edible food that the commercial edible food
generator self-hauls to the food recovery organization for food recovery.
      (3)   Shall not intentionally spoil edible food that is capable of being
recovered by a food recovery organization or a food recovery service;
      (4)   Allow city’s designated enforcement entity or designated third-
party enforcement entity to access the premises and review records pursuant to
14 California Code of Regulations, § 18991.4;
      (5)   Keep records that include the following information, or as
otherwise specified in 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18991.4:
         (a)   A list of each food recovery service or organization that
collects or receives its edible food pursuant to a contract or written
agreement established under 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18991.3(b);
         (b)   A copy of all contracts or written agreements established under
14 California Code of Regulations, § 18991.3(b); and
         (c)   A record of the following information for each of those food
recovery services or food recovery organizations:
            1.   The name, address and contact information of the food recovery
service or food recovery organization;
            2.   The types of food that will be collected by or self-hauled to
the food recovery service or food recovery organization;
            3.   The established frequency that food will be collected or self-
hauled; and
            4.   The quantity of food, measured in pounds recovered per month,
collected or self-hauled to a food recovery service or food recovery
organization for food recovery.
      (6)   No later than March 31 of each year, commencing no later than
February 1, 2023 for tier one commercial edible food generators and February 1,
2025 for tier two commercial edible food generators, provide an annual food
recovery report to the city that includes the following information:
         (a)   A copy of all contracts or written agreements established under
14 California Code of Regulations, § 18991.3(b);
         (b)   The quantity of food, measured in annual pounds recovered,
collected or self-hauled to a food recovery service or food recovery
organization for food recovery; and
         (c)   The name, address and contact information of the food recovery
service or food recovery organization.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit or conflict
with the protections provided by the California Good Samaritan Food Donation
Act of 2017, the federal Bill Emerson Good Samaritan Food Donation Act or share
table and school food donation guidance pursuant to Senate Bill 557 of 2017
(approved by the Governor of the state on September 25, 2017, which added
Article 13 (commencing with § 49580) to Chapter 9 of Part 27 of Division 4 of
Title 2 of the California Education Code, and to amend of the California Health
and Safety Code, § 114079, relating to food safety, as amended, supplemented,
superseded and replaced from time to time).
(Prior Code, § 6-3-704) (Ord. 2021-209, § 1, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 6-3-705 REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOD RECOVERY ORGANIZATIONS AND SERVICES.
   (A)   Food recovery services collecting or receiving edible food directly
from commercial edible food generators, via a contract or written agreement
established under 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18991.3(b), shall
maintain the following records, or as otherwise specified by 14 California Code
of Regulations, § 18991.5(a)(1):
      (1)   The name, address and contact information for each commercial
edible food generator from which the service collects edible food;
      (2)   The quantity in pounds of edible food collected from each
commercial edible food generator per month;
      (3)   The quantity in pounds of edible food transported to each food
recovery organization per month; and
      (4)   The name, address and contact information for each food recovery
organization that the food recovery service transports edible food to for food
recovery.
   (B)   Food recovery organizations collecting or receiving edible food
directly from commercial edible food generators, via a contract or written
agreement established under 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18991.3(b),
shall maintain the following records, or as otherwise specified by 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18991.5(a)(2):
      (1)   The name, address and contact information for each commercial
edible food generator from which the organization receives edible food;
      (2)   The quantity in pounds of edible food received from each commercial
edible food generator per month; and
      (3)   The name, address and contact information for each food recovery
service that the organization receives edible food from for food recovery.
   (C)   No later than March 31 of each year, commencing March 31, 2023 food
recovery organizations and food recovery services that have their primary
address physically located in the city and contract with or have written
agreements with one or more commercial edible food generators pursuant to 14
California Code of Regulations, § 18991.3(b) shall report to the city the total
pounds of edible food recovered in the previous calendar year from the tier one
and tier two commercial edible food generators they have established a contract
or written agreement with pursuant to 14 California Code of Regulations, §
18991.3(b).
   (D)   In order to support edible food recovery capacity planning assessments
or other studies conducted by the city or its designated entity, food recovery
services and food recovery organizations operating in the city shall provide
information and consultation to the city, upon request, regarding existing or
proposed new or expanded, food recovery capacity that could be accessed by the
city and its commercial edible food generators. A food recovery service or food
recovery organization contacted by the city shall respond to such request for
information within 60 days, unless a shorter time frame is otherwise specified
by the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-705) (Ord. 2021-209, § 1, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 6-3-706 REQUIREMENTS FOR HAULERS AND FACILITY OPERATORS.
   (A)   Requirements for haulers.
      (1)   Exclusive franchised hauler providing residential, commercial or
industrial organic waste collection services to generators within the city’s
boundaries shall meet the following requirements and standards as a condition
of approval of a contract, agreement or other authorization with the city to
collect organic waste:
         (a)   Through written notice to the city annually on or before March
15 th identify the facilities to which they will transport organic waste
including facilities for source separated recyclable materials and source
separated green container organic waste;
         (b)   Transport source separated recyclable materials and source
separated green container organic waste to a facility, operation, activity or
property that recovers organic waste as defined in 14 California Code of
Regulations, Division 7, Chapter 12, Article 2; and
         (c)   Obtain approval from the city to haul organic waste, unless it
is transporting source separated organic waste to a community composting site
or lawfully transporting C&D in a manner that complies with 14 California Code
of Regulations, § 18989.1, this subchapter and city’s C&D ordinance.
   (B)   Requirements for facility operators and community composting
operations.
      (1)   Owners of facilities, operations and activities that recover
organic waste, including, but not limited to, compost facilities, in-vessel
digestion facilities and publicly-owned treatment works shall, upon city
request, provide information regarding available and potential new or expanded
capacity at their facilities, operations and activities, including information
about throughput and permitted capacity necessary for planning purposes.
Entities contacted by the city shall respond within 60 days.
      (2)   Community composting operators, upon city request, shall provide
information to the city to support organic waste capacity planning, including,
but not limited to, an estimate of the amount of organic waste anticipated to
be handled at the community composting operation. Entities contacted by the
city shall respond within 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-706) (Ord. 2021-209, § 1, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 6-3-707 SELF-HAULER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Self-haulers shall source separate all recyclable materials and
organic waste (materials that city otherwise requires generators to separate
for collection in the city’s organics and recycling collection program)
generated on-site from solid waste in a manner consistent with 14 California
Code of Regulations, §§ 18984.1 and 18984.2, or shall haul organic waste to a
high diversion organic waste processing facility as specified in 14 California
Code of Regulations, § 18984.3.
   (B)   Self-haulers shall haul their source separated recyclable materials to
a facility that recovers those materials; and haul their source separated green
container organic waste to a solid waste facility, operation, activity or
property that processes or recovers source separated organic waste,
alternatively, self-haulers may haul organic waste to a high diversion organic
waste processing facility.
   (C)   (1)   Self-haulers that are commercial businesses (including multi-
family residential dwellings) shall keep a record of the amount of organic
waste delivered to each solid waste facility, operation, activity or property
that processes or recovers organic waste; this record shall be subject to
inspection by the city.
      (2)   The records shall include the following information:
         (a)   Delivery receipts and weight tickets from the entity accepting
the waste;
         (b)   The amount of material in cubic yards or tons transported by the
generator to each entity; and
         (c)   If the material is transported to an entity that does not have
scales on-site, or employs scales incapable of weighing the self-hauler’s
vehicle in a manner that allows it to determine the weight of materials
received, the self-hauler is not required to record the weight of material but
shall keep a record of the entities that received the organic waste.
   (D)   Self-haulers that are commercial businesses (including multi-family
self-haulers) shall provide information collected in division (C) above to the
city, if requested.
   (E)   A residential organic waste generator that self-hauls organic waste,
as described in § 6-3-48, is not required to record or report information in
divisions (C) and (D) above.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-707) (Ord. 2021-209, § 1, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 6-3-708 PROCUREMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR CITY DEPARTMENTS, DIRECT SERVICE
PROVIDERS AND VENDORS.
   (A)   Direct service providers of landscaping maintenance, renovation and
construction shall:
      (1)   Use compost and SB 1383 eligible mulch, as practicable, produced
from recovered organic waste, for all landscaping renovations, construction or
maintenance performed for the city, whenever available, and capable of meeting
quality standards and criteria specified. SB 1383 eligible mulch used for land
application shall comply with 14 California Code of Regulations, Division 7,
Chapter 12, Article 12 and must meet or exceed the physical contamination,
maximum metal concentration and pathogen density standards specified in 14
California Code of Regulations, § 17852(a)(24.5)(A)(1) through (3); and
      (2)   (a)   Keep and provide records of procurement of recovered organic
waste products (either through purchase or acquisition) to the city, upon
completion of projects.
         (b)   Information to be provided shall include:
            1.   General description of how and where the product was used and,
if applicable, applied;
            2.   Source of product, including name, physical location and
contact information for each entity, operation or facility from whom the
recovered organic waste products were procured;
            3.   Type of product;
            4.   Quantity of each product; and
            5.   Invoice or other record demonstrating purchase or procurement.
   (B)   All vendors providing paper products and printing and writing paper
shall:
      (1)   If fitness and quality are equal, provide recycled-content paper
products and recycled-content printing and writing paper that consists of at
least 30%, by fiber weight, postconsumer fiber instead of non-recycled products
whenever recycled paper products and printing and writing paper are available
at the same or lesser total cost than non-recycled items or at a total cost of
no more than 10% of the total cost for non-recycled items;
      (2)   Provide paper products and printing and writing paper that meet
Federal Trade Commission recyclability standard as defined in 16 C.F.R. §
260.12;
      (3)   Certify in writing, under penalty of perjury, the minimum
percentage of post-consumer material in the paper products and printing and
writing paper offered or sold to the city. This certification requirement may
be waived if the percentage of postconsumer material in the paper products,
printing and writing paper, or both can be verified by a product label,
catalog, invoice or a manufacturer or vendor internet website;
      (4)   Certify in writing, on invoices or receipts provided, that the
paper products and printing and writing paper offered or sold to the city is
eligible to be labeled with an unqualified recyclable label as defined in 16
C.F.R. § 260.12 (2013); and
      (5)   Provide records to the city’s recovered organic waste product
procurement recordkeeping staff, in accordance with the city’s recycled-content
paper procurement policy(ies) of all paper products and printing and writing
paper purchases within 30 days of the purchase (both recycled-content and non-
recycled content, if any is purchased) made by any division or department or
employee of the city. Records shall include a copy (electronic or paper) of the
invoice or other documentation of purchase, written certifications as required
in divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) above for recycled-content purchases, purchaser
name, quantity purchased, date purchased and recycled content (including
products that contain none), and if non-recycled content paper products or
printing and writing papers are provided, include a description of why
recycled-content paper products or printing and writing papers were not
provided.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-708) (Ord. 2021-209, § 1, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 6-3-709 COMPLIANCE WITH CALGREEN RECYCLING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Persons applying for a permit from the city for new construction
and building additions and alternations shall comply with the requirements of
this section and all required components of the California Green Building
Standards Code, 24 California Code of Regulations, Part 11, known as CALGreen,
as amended, if its project is covered by the scope of CALGreen. If the
requirements of CALGreen are more stringent than the requirements of this
section, the CALGreen requirements shall apply.
      (2)   Project applicants shall refer to city’s Building and/or Planning
Code for complete CALGreen requirements.
   (B)   For projects covered by CALGreen, the applicants must, as a condition
of the city’s permit approval, comply with the following:
      (1)   Where five or more multi-family dwelling units are constructed on a
building site, provide readily accessible areas that serve occupants of all
buildings on the site and are identified for the storage and collection of blue
container and green container materials, consistent with the three-container
collection program offered by the city, or comply with provision of adequate
space for recycling for multi-family and commercial premises pursuant to §§
4.408.1, 4.410.2, 5.408.1 and 5.410.1 of the California Green Building
Standards Code, 24 California Code of Regulations, Part 11, as amended,
provided amended requirements are more stringent than the CALGreen requirements
for adequate recycling space effective January 1, 2020;
      (2)   New commercial construction or additions resulting in more than 30%
of the floor area shall provide readily accessible areas identified for the
storage and collection of blue container and green container materials,
consistent with the three-container collection program offered by the city, or
shall comply with provision of adequate space for recycling for multi-family
and commercial premises pursuant to §§ 4.408.1, 4.410.2, 5.408.1 and 5.410.1 of
the California Green Building Standards Code, 24 California Code of
Regulations, Part 11 as amended provided amended requirements are more
stringent than the CALGreen requirements for adequate recycling space effective
January 1, 2020; and
      (3)   Comply with CALGreen requirements and applicable law related to
management of C&D, including diversion of organic waste in C&D from disposal.
Comply with city’s C&D ordinance, §
6-3-603 and all written and published city policies and/or administrative
guidelines regarding the collection, recycling, diversion, tracking and/or
reporting of C&D.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-709) (Ord. 2021-209, § 1, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 6-3-710 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-3-711 INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS BY CITY.
   (A)   City representatives and/or its designated entity, including
designees, are authorized to conduct inspections and investigations, at random
or otherwise, of any collection container, collection vehicle loads or
transfer, processing or disposal facility for materials collected from
generators or source separated materials to confirm compliance with this
subchapter by organic waste generators, commercial businesses (including multi-
family residential dwellings), property owners, commercial edible food
generators, haulers, self-haulers, food recovery services and food recovery
organizations, subject to applicable laws. This section does not allow the city
to enter the interior of a private residential property for inspection.
   (B)   (1)   Regulated entity shall provide or arrange for access during all
inspections (with the exception of residential property interiors) and shall
cooperate with the city’s employee or its designated entity/designee during
such inspections and investigations. Such inspections and investigations may
include confirmation of proper placement of materials in containers, edible
food recovery activities, records or any other requirement of this subchapter
described herein.
      (2)   Failure to provide or arrange for:
         (a)   Access to an entity’s premises; or
         (b)   Access to records for any inspection or investigation is a
violation of this subchapter and may result in penalties described.
   (C)   Any records obtained by a city during its inspections and other
reviews shall be subject to the requirements and applicable disclosure
exemptions of the Public Records Act, as set forth in California Government
Code, §§ 7920.000 et seq.
   (D)   City representatives, its designated entity and/or designee are
authorized to conduct any inspections or other investigations as reasonably
necessary to further the goals of this subchapter, subject to applicable laws.
   (E)   City shall receive written complaints from persons regarding an entity
that may be potentially non-compliant with SB 1383 (2016) regulations,
including receipt of anonymous complaints under 14 California Code of
Regulations, § 18995.3.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-711) (Ord. 2021-209, § 1, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 6-3-712 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notice and fines. Violation of any provision of this subchapter shall
constitute grounds for issuance of a notice of violation and assessment of a
fine by a city enforcement official or representative. Enforcement actions
under this subchapter are issuance of an administrative citation and assessment
of a fine. The city’s procedures on imposition of administrative fines set
forth in §§
1-3-11 through
1-3-25 are hereby incorporated in their entirety, as modified from time to
time, and shall govern the imposition, enforcement, collection and review of
administrative citations issued to enforce this subchapter and any rule or
regulation adopted pursuant to this subchapter, except as otherwise indicated
in this subchapter.
   (B)   Other remedies. Other remedies allowed by law may be used, including
civil action or prosecution as misdemeanor or infraction. The city may pursue
civil actions in the state courts to seek recovery of unpaid administrative
citations. The city may choose to delay court action until such time as a
sufficiently large number of violations, or cumulative size of violations exist
such that court action is a reasonable use of the city staff and resources.
   (C)   Responsible entity for enforcement.
      (1)   Enforcement pursuant to this subchapter may be undertaken by the
city enforcement official, which may be the City Manager, or their designated
entity, legal counsel or combination thereof.
      (2)   Enforcement may also be undertaken by a regional or county agency
enforcement official, designated by the city, in consultation with city
enforcement official.
         (a)   City enforcement official(s) and regional or county agency
enforcement official will interpret ordinance; determine the applicability of
waivers, if violation(s) have occurred; implement enforcement actions; and
determine if compliance standards are met.
         (b)   City enforcement official(s) and regional or county agency
enforcement official may issue notices of violation(s).
   (D)   Process for enforcement.
      (1)   (a)   City enforcement officials or regional or county enforcement
officials and/or their designee will monitor compliance with the ordinance
randomly and through compliance reviews, route reviews, investigation of
complaints and an inspection program. Section
6-3-711 establishes city’s right to conduct inspections and investigations.
         (b)   The city may issue an official notification to notify regulated
entities of its obligations under the ordinance.
         (c)   The city shall issue a notice of violation requiring compliance
within 60 days of issuance of the notice.
         (d)   Absent compliance by the respondent within the deadline set
forth in the notice of violation, the city shall commence an action to impose
penalties, via an administrative citation and fine, pursuant to the city’s
administrative citation ordinance in §§
1-3-11 through
1-3-25.
      (2)   Notices shall be sent to “owner” at the official address of the
owner maintained by the tax collector for the city or if no such address is
available, to the owner at the address of the dwelling or commercial property
or to the party responsible for paying for the collection services, depending
upon available information.
   (E)   Penalty amounts for types of violations. Consistent with §
1-3-17, the penalty levels are as follows:
      (1)   For a first violation, the amount of the base penalty shall be
$100.00 per violation;
      (2)   For a second violation, the amount of the base penalty shall be
$200.00 per violation; and
      (3)   For a third or subsequent violation, the amount of the base penalty
shall be $500.00 per violation.
   (F)   Compliance deadline extension considerations. The city may extend the
compliance deadlines set forth in a notice of violation issued in accordance
with this section if it finds that there are extenuating circumstances beyond
the control of the respondent that make compliance within the deadlines
impracticable, including the following:
      (1)   Acts of God such as earthquakes, wildfires, flooding and other
emergencies or natural disasters;
      (2)   Delays in obtaining discretionary permits or other government
agency approvals; or
      (3)   Deficiencies in organic waste recycling infrastructure or edible
food recovery capacity and the city is under a corrective action plan with
CalRecycle pursuant to 14 California Code of Regulations, § 18996.2 due to
those deficiencies.
   (G)   Appeals process. Consistent with §§
1-3-19 through
1-3-24, persons receiving an administrative citation containing a penalty for
an uncorrected violation may request a hearing to appeal the citation. A
hearing will be held only if it is requested within the time prescribed and
consistent with city’s procedures in the city’s codes for appeals of
administrative citations. Evidence may be presented at the hearing. The city
will appoint a hearing officer who shall conduct the hearing and issue a final
written order.
   (H)   Education period for non-compliance. Beginning January 1, 2022 and
through December 31, 2023, the city or its designee will conduct inspections,
route reviews or waste evaluations and compliance reviews, depending upon the
type of regulated entity, to determine compliance, and if city determines that
organic waste generator, self-hauler, hauler, tier one commercial edible food
generator, food recovery organization, food recovery service or other entity is
not in compliance, it shall provide educational materials to the entity
describing its obligations under this subchapter and a notice that compliance
is required by January 1, 2022, and that violations may be subject to
administrative civil penalties starting on January 1, 2024.
   (I)   Civil penalties for non-compliance. Beginning January 1, 2024, if the
city determines that an organic waste generator, self hauler, hauler, tier one
or tier two commercial edible food generator, food recovery organization, food
recovery service or other entity is not in compliance with this subchapter, it
shall document the noncompliance or violation, issue a notice of violation, and
take enforcement action pursuant to this section, as needed.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-712) (Ord. 2021-209, § 1, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 6-3-713 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective commencing on January 1, 2022.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-713) (Ord. 2021-209, § 1, passed 5-4-2021)
§§ 6-3-714—6-3-799 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 8. SPECIAL COLLECTION ****
§ 6-3-800 WASTE DIVERSION PROGRAMS AT SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   The promoter, coordinator or responsible party for a special event
held within the city must provide a level of municipal solid waste storage,
collection and disposal, and recyclable materials and food scraps storage,
collection and diversion, sufficient to handle all such materials generated at
the special event.
   (B)   This section shall apply to special events with 1,000 or more
attendees.
   (C)   The responsible party shall, as part of the special event permit
application, submit an implementation plan for the handling and diversion of
recyclable materials and food scraps generated at the event that meets the
requirements of this section. The responsible party shall submit a refundable
deposit of $500.00 with the special event application.
   (D)   The promoter, coordinator or responsible party shall provide
containers at appropriate locations at the special event to facilitate the
source separation of municipal solid waste, recyclable materials and food
scraps by event employees, vendors and attendees.
   (E)   The three types of containers shall:
      (1)   Be appropriate in number and size with respect to the quantity of
municipal solid waste, recyclable materials and food scraps anticipated to be
generated at the special event;
      (2)   Bear appropriate signage to identify the type of materials to be
contained. Containers shall meet any additional design criteria established by
the city; and
      (3)   Be placed together as municipal solid waste, recyclable materials
and food scrap material stations throughout the special event venue to provide
equally convenient access to users for disposal of municipal solid waste and
diversion of recyclable materials and food scraps.
   (F)   If the promoter or coordinator determines that vendor booths at the
special event will require municipal solid waste containers, the vendors shall
receive from the coordinator, promoter or responsible party a set of the three
containers bearing appropriate signage to identify the type of material to be
contained in each container.
   (G)   The use of public municipal solid waste containers or public recycling
or food scrap containers at special events is prohibited. The promoter,
coordinator or responsible party shall remove or cover all public municipal
solid waste, recycling and food scraps receptacles to prevent their use during
the special event.
   (H)   The promoter, coordinator or responsible party shall arrange for the
collection of all municipal solid waste, recyclable materials and food scraps
at frequencies that prevent the overflow of said materials from storage
containers at the special event. For special events of more than one day in
duration, all municipal solid waste, recyclable materials and food scraps must
be either collected and transported off-site at the end of each day or emptied
into interim containers (lidded wheeled carts, lidded bins or covered roll off
boxes) at the end of each day as required to prevent odors, vectors and blowing
litter.
   (I)   The promoter, coordinator or responsible party shall arrange for the
collection and transport of all municipal solid waste to a fully permitted
landfill or other fully permitted disposal site and shall arrange for the
collection and transport of all recyclable materials and food scraps to
permitted processing facilities for these materials to be diverted.
   (J)   (1)   The promoter, coordinator or responsible party shall obtain
weight tickets from the
disposal site and all permitted processing facilities showing the date and
weight of the materials delivered to the facility from the special event.
      (2)   The promoter, coordinator or responsible party shall submit the
following information to the city within 30 days of the end of the special
event:
         (a)   Name and date(s) of the special event;
         (b)   Contact information for the responsible party, promoter or
coordinator;
         (c)   Address of location where event was held;
         (d)   Number of attendees for each day of the event;
         (e)   Quantity of municipal solid waste collected and disposed;
         (f)   Quantity of recyclable materials collected and disposed;
         (g)   Quantity of food scraps collected and disposed; and
         (h)   Copies of weight tickets from municipal solid waste disposal
facility and all permitted processing facilities where recyclable materials and
food scraps were delivered.
   (K)   The diversion deposit paid by the promoter, coordinator or responsible
party shall be returned upon city verification that the diversion programs were
carried out in compliance with this section. The diversion deposit shall be
retained by the city in the event the city enforcement official, or their
designee, determines that the solid waste diversion program was not implemented
in compliance with this section.
(Ord. 2023-224, § 4, passed 9-5-2023)
***** CHAPTER 4: FOOD AND SANITATION *****
Section
Subchapter 1. General Provisions
6-4-1—6-4-13   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Food Handling Businesses
6-4-14   Definitions
6-4-15   Permit required; conditions and terms
6-4-16   Construction, conversion and alteration
6-4-17   Suspension of permits
6-4-18   Notice of violation
6-4-19   Hearing
6-4-20   Mobile food preparation units generally
6-4-21   Mobile food preparation units operating in more than one location in
any day
6-4-22   Additional requirements for mobile food preparation units operating in
multi-locations in any day
6-4-23   Reserved
6-4-24   Reserved
6-4-25   Suspension for refusal of entry
6-4-26   Summary suspension
6-4-27   Supervision of closing down premises
6-4-28   Rules and regulations
6-4-29   Penalty
6-4-30   Preemption
6-4-31—6-4-39   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Health Services Fee
6-4-40   Definitions
6-4-41   Purpose and authority
6-4-42   Area of application
6-4-43   Violation
6-4-44   Separate activities
6-4-45   —6-4-51   Reserved
6-4-52   Applications
6-4-53   Rules and regulations
6-4-54   Fees
6-4-55   Reserved
6-4-56   Reserved
6-4-57—6-4-59   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Alcoholic Beverages Warning Signs
6-4-60   Purpose of subchapter
6-4-61   Definitions
6-4-62   Required signs
6-4-63   Language
6-4-64   Enforcement of subchapter
6-4-65   Penalty for violation of subchapter
6-4-66   Sign availability
Cross-reference:
Business regulations, see Title 5
Revenue and finance, see Title 3
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§§ 6-4-1—6-4-13 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. FOOD HANDLING BUSINESSES ****
§ 6-4-14 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFIED FARMER’S MARKET. As defined in the California Health and Safety
Code, § 113742.
   COMMISSARY. As defined in the California Health and Safety Code, § 113751.
   FOOD FACILITY. As defined in the California Health and Safety Code, §
113789.
   FOOD PROCESSING ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in the California Health and
Safety Code, § 111955.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT or DEPARTMENT. The Orange County Health Care Agency.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The county health officer or their deputy.
   INSPECTOR. An environmental health specialist, as defined in California
Health and Safety Code, § 106615, employed by the Health Department, or the
health officer, or any deputy health officer authorized to inspect premises or
equipment for the enforcement of this subchapter.
   MOBILE FOOD FACILITY. As defined in the California Health and Safety Code, §
113831.
   OPEN-AIR BARBECUE. As defined in the California Health and Safety Code, §
113843.
   PERSON. As defined in the California Health and Safety Code, § 113855.
   PREMISES. Include land, buildings, vehicles and ships and other vessels
wherein food is handled, stored, distributed, prepared, processed, served or
sold, and also equipment installed or used in food establishments or food
facilities or on such premises.
   PRODUCE STAND. As defined in the California Health and Safety Code, §
113879.
   RESTRICTED FOOD SERVICE FACILITY. As defined in the California Health and
Safety Code, § 113893.
   SATELLITE FOOD SERVICE. As defined in the California Health and Safety Code,
§ 113899.
   TEMPORARY FOOD FACILITY. As defined in the California Health and Safety
Code, § 113930.
   VENDING MACHINE. As defined in the California Health and Safety Code, §
113938.
   VENDING MACHINE BUSINESS. The business of selling food or beverages by means
of vending machines, regardless of the number of locations at which the vending
machines are located.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-14) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 1,
passed 2-1-1994; Ord. 96-92, § 14, passed 8-20-1996)
§ 6-4-15 PERMIT REQUIRED; CONDITIONS AND TERMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any food facility,
vending machine business, food processing establishment or any other food
handling business governed by this subchapter, without first applying for and
receiving a food vending permit issued by the Health Department under the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Every applicant for a food vending permit shall file with the Health
Department a written application which shall state the name and address of the
applicant, the character and location of the activity for which a permit is
required under this subchapter, and such other information as the Health
Department may require. Applicants for a permit to operate a mobile food
preparation unit shall, in addition, provide a list of three service stops
which shall include the address of exact location and time of each stop.
   (C)   A permit may be issued when investigation has determined that the
proposed facility and its method of operation will conform to all applicable
laws and regulations. A permit, once issued, is nontransferable. A permit shall
be valid only for the person, location, type of food sales or distribution
activity approved and, unless suspended or revoked, for the time period
indicated.
   (D)   Any permit may be suspended or revoked for a violation of any
applicable provisions of law or regulation. Any food facility, vending machine
business, food processing establishment or any other food handling business
governed by this subchapter, for which the permit has been suspended or revoked
shall close and remain closed until the permit has been reinstated or until a
new permit has been issued.
   (E)   Permits may be granted at any time during the year. A permit shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises or vehicle for which it is
issued.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-15) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 2,
passed 2-1-1994)
§ 6-4-16 CONSTRUCTION, CONVERSION AND ALTERATION.
   A person proposing to build or remodel a food facility, vending machine
business, food processing establishment or any other food handling business
governed by this subchapter shall submit three copies of the complete plans and
specifications to the Health Department for review and approval, pursuant to
the applicable requirements of the Health and Safety Code. The health officer
may thereafter issue a certificate stating that modifications, if any, are
required for compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-16) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 3,
passed 2-1-1994)
§ 6-4-17 SUSPENSION OF PERMITS.
   A permit issued under this subchapter or its predecessor may be suspended or
revoked under the procedure set forth in this subchapter for any of the
following reasons:
   (A)   Violation of state law;
   (B)   Violation of this subchapter;
   (C)   Violation of the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this
subchapter; or
   (D)   Upon recommendation by the health officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-17) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 4,
passed 2-1-1994)
§ 6-4-18 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   When any laws, this subchapter or rules and regulations have been violated,
an inspector may serve written notice thereof entitled “Notice of Violation”
specifying:
   (A)   The acts or omissions with which the permittee is charged;
   (B)   The provision or provisions violated thereby;
   (C)   The corrective steps required;
   (D)   The date by which all such corrections must be completed, allowing a
reasonable period therefor;
   (E)   That the permittee has a right to a hearing upon written request or
that a mandatory hearing has been scheduled; and
   (F)   That if no hearing is requested or the permittee fails to appear at
the scheduled hearing and if the Health Department does not receive notice that
all such corrections have been made before 9:00 a.m. of the date specified
under division (D) above, the permit will be subject to suspension or
revocation from that time until all violations have been corrected.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-18) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 5,
passed 2-1-1994)
§ 6-4-19 HEARING.
   The hearing shall be held by the health officer, or their duly authorized
representative who is a qualified environmental health specialist, as defined
in the California Health and Safety Code, § 106615 and registered as provided
in § 106710 thereof, but shall not be the inspector who reported the violations
or who inspected any corrective measure taken.
   (A)   (1)   The permit holder shall have the right to a hearing, if
requested, on all violations listed in the notice. A written request for a
hearing shall be made by the permittee within 15 calendar days after receipt of
the notice. A failure to request a hearing within 15 calendar days after
receipt of the notice shall be deemed a waiver of the right to a hearing. When
circumstances warrant, the hearing officer may order a hearing at any
reasonable time within this 15-day period to expedite the permit suspension or
revocation process.
      (2)   The hearing shall be held within 15 calendar days of the receipt of
a request for a hearing. Upon written request of the permittee, the hearing
officer may postpone any hearing date, if circumstances warrant such action.
   (B)   (1)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall
issue a written notice of decision to the permittee within five working days
following the hearing. In the event of a suspension or revocation, the notice
shall specify the acts or omissions with which the permittee is charged, and
shall state the terms of the suspension, or that the permit has been revoked.
      (2)   The health officer may, after providing opportunity for a hearing,
modify, suspend or revoke a permit for serious or repeated violations of any of
the requirements of the applicable laws, rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-19) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 6,
passed 2-1-1994; Ord. 96-92, § 15, passed 8-20-1996)
§ 6-4-20 MOBILE FOOD PREPARATION UNITS GENERALLY.
   In addition to all other applicable provisions of the Health and Safety Code
and of this subchapter, mobile food preparation units shall comply with the
following safety requirements:
   (A)   Compressors, auxiliary engines, generators, batteries, battery
chargers, gas-fueled water heaters and similar equipment shall be installed so
as to be accessible only from the outside of the unit;
   (B)   All equipment installed in any part of the unit shall be secured so as
to prevent movement during transit and to prevent detachment in the event of a
collision or overturn;
   (C)   All equipment installed within the interior of the unit, including the
interiors of cabinets or compartments, shall be constructed so as to be free of
sharp or jagged edges;
   (D)   All utensils shall be stored so as to prevent their being hurled about
in the event of a sudden stop, collision or overturn. A safety knife holder
shall be provided to avoid loose storage of knives’ in cabinets, boxes or slots
along counter aisles. Knife holders shall be designed to be easily cleaned and
be manufactured of materials approved by the health officer;
   (E)   Ceiling light fixtures shall be recessed or flush-mounted and sealed
and shall be equipped with safety covers approved by the health officer. The
minimum clearance from the floor to the light fixture shall be at least 188
centimeters (76 inches) or the fixture shall be installed out of the traffic
aisle or work area;
   (F)   High voltage (110-120 v) electrical wiring shall be properly installed
in electrical conduit with all splices or connections being made within a
junction, outlet or switch as to prevent the use of extension cords exceeding
183 centimeters (six feet). Outside electrical connection receptacles shall be
of weatherproof design with cover;
   (G)   Attached, firmly anchored seats with backrests, equipped with seat
belts, shall be provided for all occupants. If a jump seat in the aisle is
utilized, it shall fold in a manner that will clear the aisle when not in use
and be held with a self latching mechanism. Seats and backrests shall be at
least 35.5 centimeters (14 inches by 14 inches) in size. All occupants shall be
seated, shall wear seat belts and shall not cook or prepare food while the unit
is in motion. Signs setting forth the latter three requirements shall be posted
in both English and Spanish;
   (H)   A first-aid kit approved by the health officer shall be provided and
located in a convenient area in an enclosed case;
   (I)   All pressure cylinders shall be securely fastened to a rigid structure
of the unit. All liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) equipment shall be installed as
follows.
      (1)   The LP gas tanks and relief valves shall be ASME-approved for
intended use.
      (2)   Tanks shall be securely fastened and located where they will
normally not be subject to damage. They may be in a body compartment or
underneath the body. The tank or fittings must not protrude beyond the body.
      (3)   Tanks and regulators shall be separated from any open flame by a
vapor-tight partition.
      (4)   When tanks are installed in a body compartment, the partitions
shall be sealed off from the rest of the body with no openings to the interior
except for the tubing. The following additional requirements shall be met.
         (a)   All tank valves and fittings shall be readily accessible from
outside the unit.
         (b)   The tank safety relief valve shall be vented to the outside and
directed downward.
         (c)   The filling shall be done through an outside door to the
compartment.
         (d)   The compartment shall be vented to the exterior of the unit so
as to prevent accumulation of gas.
      (5)   Tubing that passes through partitions shall be protected by
grommets made of rubber or other approved materials.
      (6)   Tubing exposed to friction shall be protected against chafing.
      (7)   Expansion and contraction bends shall be made in the tubing between
the tank and the appliance.
      (8)   ASME-approved LP gas tubing or standard weight pipe shall be used
throughout.
      (9)   Protective “thread” caps shall be installed on fill-line check
valves.
      (10)   Every appliance fueled by LP gas shall be equipped with a pilot
light attachment and provided with an ASME approved device which will
automatically shut off all gas to the appliance if the pilot light should be
extinguished.
   (J)   A minimum five B.C.-rated portable fire extinguisher (UL or California
Fire Marshal approved design) shall be installed in plain sight and within easy
reach, immediately inside the front driver’s door. The extinguisher shall be
replaced or recharged after each use.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-20) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 7,
passed 2-1-1994)
§ 6-4-21 MOBILE FOOD PREPARATION UNITS OPERATING IN MORE THAN ONE LOCATION IN
ANY DAY.
   In addition to the requirements specified in § 6-4-20, mobile food
preparation units which operate at more than one location in any calendar day
shall comply with the requirements set forth in California Health and Safety
Code, § 114323 or as that section may be amended. The following additional
requirements shall also apply.
   (A)   Any lids required under this section shall be designed and constructed
so as to prevent pressure buildup which could result in an explosion.
   (B)   Signs setting forth the requirements in this section shall be posted
in both English and Spanish.
§ 6-4-22 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MOBILE FOOD PREPARATION UNITS OPERATING IN
MULTI-LOCATIONS IN ANY DAY.
   In addition to the requirements specified in § 6-4-20, mobile food
preparation units which operate at more than one location in any calendar day
shall comply with the following additional requirements.
   (A)   Coffee urns shall be installed in a compartment that will prevent
excessive spillage of coffee in the interior of the unit in the event of a
sudden stop, collision or overturn, or, as an alternative to this requirement,
coffee urns shall be equipped with positive closing lids as well as perforated
metal protective sleeves on the glass liquid level sight gauges.
   (B)   Deep fat fryers are prohibited, unless equipped with positive closing
lids to contain the fat and to prevent splashing or excessive spillage in
transit or in the event of a sudden stop, collision or overturn of the unit.
Such lids shall be designed and constructed so as to prevent pressure buildup
which could result in an explosion. All lids shall be kept positively closed
while the unit is in motion. Signs setting forth the latter requirements shall
be posted in both English and Spanish.
   (C)   Water bath or steam food insert tables shall be provided with baffles
to prevent surging in transit. All such tables, as well as dry heat units,
their insert food containers and similar equipment that contains hot liquids or
hot foods shall have positive closing lids to contain all such liquids or foods
and to prevent splashing or spillage in transit or in the event of a sudden
stop, collision or overturn of the unit. Such lids shall be designed and
constructed so as to prevent pressure buildup which could result in an
explosion. All lids shall be positively closed while the unit is in motion.
Signs setting forth the latter requirement shall be posted in both English and
Spanish.
   (D)   An alternate means of exit in the side opposite the main exit door, or
the roof, or the rear of the unit, with unobstructed passage of 61 centimeters
by 92 centimeters (24 inches by 36 inches) minimum to the outside, shall be
provided. The interior latching mechanism shall be labeled “Safety Exit” in
contrasting colors with at least two and fifty-four one hundredths (2.54)
centimeters (one inch) high letters.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-22) (Ord. 94-69, § 8, passed 2-1-1994)
§ 6-4-23 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-4-24 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-4-25 SUSPENSION FOR REFUSAL OF ENTRY.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person to deny or hinder
entry by any inspector for the purpose of inspecting any of the premises
described in §
6-4-15, or any portion thereof; and, in such event, the inspector may forthwith
suspend the food vending permit issued for the premises.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-25) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 9,
passed 2-1-1994)
§ 6-4-26 SUMMARY SUSPENSION.
   (A)   If any immediate danger to the public health or safety is found,
unless the danger is immediately corrected, an inspector may temporarily
suspend the permit and order the premises immediately closed. IMMEDIATE DANGER
TO THE PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY means any condition, based upon inspection
findings or other evidence, that can cause food infection, food intoxication,
disease transmission or hazardous condition, including, but not limited to,
unsafe food temperature, sewage contamination, nonpotable water supply or an
employee who is a carrier of a communicable disease.
   (B)   Whenever a permit is suspended as the result of an immediate danger to
the public health or safety, the inspector shall issue to the permittee a
notice setting forth the acts or omissions with which the permittee is charged,
specifying the pertinent code section, and informing the permittee of the right
to a hearing.
   (C)   At any time within 15 calendar days after service of a notice pursuant
to division (B) above, the permittee may request, in writing, a hearing before
a hearing officer to show cause why the permit suspension is not warranted. The
hearing shall be held within 15 calendar days of the receipt of a request for a
hearing. A failure to request a hearing within 15 calendar days shall be deemed
a waiver of the right to such hearing.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-26) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 10,
passed 2-1-1994)
§ 6-4-27 SUPERVISION OF CLOSING DOWN PREMISES.
   When any permit is first suspended hereunder, or when any premises governed
hereby shall have been closed for business and left in an unsanitary condition,
the Health Department shall have the power to enter to ensure that the premises
are closed down in a manner which will not endanger the public health. If the
permittee or their employee in charge cannot be found, or is unwilling or
unable to remedy the condition of the premises, the owner of the premises shall
be notified of unsanitary conditions and shall be required to take such
remedial action as may be necessary to obviate such condition.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-27) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 11,
passed 2-1-1994)
§ 6-4-28 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The health officer may adopt and enforce rules and regulations necessary to
administer this subchapter, including, but not limited to, regulations
pertaining to:
   (A)   Forms for applications, permits and notices;
   (B)   Forms and procedures for hearings upon the granting, denying,
suspending, revoking or reinstating of permits; and
   (C)   Inspection of premises and reporting thereon.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-28) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 12,
passed 2-1-1994)
§ 6-4-29 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-29) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 13,
passed 2-1-1994)
§ 6-4-30 PREEMPTION.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any matter to which it concerns to the
extent that the regulation of such matter is preempted by state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-30) (Ord. 94-69, § 14, passed 2-1-1994)
§§ 6-4-31—6-4-39 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. HEALTH SERVICES FEE ****
§ 6-4-40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT or DEPARTMENT. The Orange County Health Care Agency.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The county health officer or their duly authorized
representative.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation or other legal entity.
   RECEIPT. A county public health services fee receipt.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-40) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 15,
passed 2-1-1994)
§ 6-4-41 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to establish fees sufficient
to meet the reasonable expenses of the health officer in enforcing state
statutes, orders, quarantines and rules and regulations of state officers and
departments relating to public health, which expenses are hereby found not to
be met by the fees prescribed by the state.
   (B)   The authority for this subchapter is contained in the California
Health and Safety Code, § 101325.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-41) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 16,
passed 2-1-1994; Ord. 96-92, § 16, passed 8-20-1996)
§ 6-4-42 AREA OF APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall be enforceable within the territory of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-42) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 17,
passed 2-1-1994; Ord. 96-92, § 17, passed 8-20-1996)
§ 6-4-43 VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct any activity enumerated in
this subchapter without a valid receipt.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-43) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 18,
passed 2-1-1994)
§ 6-4-44 SEPARATE ACTIVITIES.
   If a person shall conduct more than one of the activities for which a
receipt is required, they must obtain a separate receipt for each activity,
except as otherwise provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-44) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 19,
passed 2-1-1994)
§§ 6-4-45—6-4-51 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-4-52 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for a receipt shall be filed with the Health Department on a
form to be provided by that Department. The applications shall be accompanied
by payment of the required fee. An applicant for or recipient of a receipt
shall provide the health officer with any information requested by them.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-52) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 20,
passed 2-1-1994)
§ 6-4-53 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The health officer shall administer this subchapter and may issue
regulations and prepare application and identification forms pertaining
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-53) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 21,
passed 2-1-1994)
§ 6-4-54 FEES.
   (A)   The county shall, by annual board resolution, adopt health service
fees to be paid by the proprietor or operator of the food facility.
   (B)   Such fees are to be paid directly to the county health officer and
retained by the county as reimbursement for said services related to this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-54) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-69, § 22,
passed 2-1-1994)
§ 6-4-55 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-4-56 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 94-69, § 23, adopted 2-1-1994, repealed the provisions of former § 6-4-
56, relative to a temporary receipt, which derived from Ord. 90-11, § 4,
adopted 3-6-1990.
§§ 6-4-57—6-4-59 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES WARNING SIGNS ****
§ 6-4-60 PURPOSE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The Surgeon General of the United States has recommended that women who are
pregnant, or considering pregnancy, be advised not to drink alcoholic
beverages, and to be aware of the alcoholic content in anything they eat,
because alcohol consumption during pregnancy, especially in the early months,
can harm the fetus. In order to serve the public health, safety and welfare,
the purpose of this subchapter is to educate the public by requiring that
warning signs be placed at all locations where alcoholic beverages are sold to
the public.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-60) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-4-61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Includes, without limitation, beer, malt liquors, wine
and distilled spirits.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The city health officer or their deputy.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-61) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 6-4-62 REQUIRED SIGNS.
   Any person who owns, operates, manages, leases or rents premises offering
wine, beer, distilled spirits, malt liquors or other alcoholic beverages for
sale, or who dispenses such beverages for consideration to the public, shall
cause signs to be posted in compliance with the following.
   (A)   For alcoholic beverages intended for consumption off the premises
where sold or distributed, at least one notice or sign shall be placed in the
retail establishment so as to ensure that it is readable and likely to be read,
either at the retail point of sale or each point of display. Signs or notices
placed at the point of display shall be placed no more than ten feet from any
display of any alcoholic beverage container in a manner associating the sign or
notice with the display.
   (B)   For alcoholic beverages provided for consumption on the premises at
tables served by food or beverage persons, at least one notice or sign shall be
placed so as to ensure that it is readable and likely to be read by the public
being served on the premises, or a notice or sign shall be conspicuously
displayed at each of the tables.
   (C)   For alcohol sold or distributed through over-the-counter service, at
least one notice or sign shall be placed in the retail establishment so that it
is readable and likely to be read from all counter locations available to the
public.
   (D)   Any sign required to be posted or displayed under this section, except
as otherwise provided in this subchapter, shall bear the following warning
message: “WARNING: Drinking Distilled Spirits, Beer, Coolers, Wine and Other
Alcoholic Beverages May Increase Cancer Risk, and, During Pregnancy, Can Cause
Birth Defects”.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-62) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-4-63 LANGUAGE.
   If 25% or more of the public patronizing premises offering for sale or
dispensing, for consideration, wine, beer or other alcoholic beverages uses a
language other than English as a primary language, any sign or notice required
under §
6-4-62 shall be worded in both English and the primary languages involved.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-63) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-4-64 ENFORCEMENT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The Police Chief shall be responsible for enforcing the provisions of this
subchapter. Police services shall have the authority to adopt reasonable rules
and regulations for the implementation of this subchapter, including rules and
regulations for alternative signs and warning messages, and placement of
required signs.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-64) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 96-92, § 2,
passed 8-20-1996)
§ 6-4-65 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this subchapter shall be
guilty of an infraction, and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not
to exceed $100.00 per day.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-65) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-4-66 SIGN AVAILABILITY.
   Warning signs required by this subchapter may be obtained free of charge
from the Health Department. Vendors of alcoholic beverages may also prepare and
post signs of their own making, meeting the requirements of this subchapter, at
their expense. In no event shall the language of the warning sign be altered
from that specified in §
6-4-62(D).
(Prior Code, § 6-4-66) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
***** CHAPTER 5: WATER CONSERVATION *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Use of Well Water
6-5-1   Definitions
6-5-2   Unlawful use of water
6-5-3   Civil execution on fine
6-5-4—6-5-13   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Construction and Abandonment of Water Wells
6-5-14   Purpose of subchapter
6-5-15   Definitions
6-5-16   Reserved
6-5-17   Permit required; compliance with orders of health officer and Advisory
Board
6-5-18   Issuance of permit; amendment or cancellation
6-5-19   Notification to health officer of completion of work; inspection
6-5-20—6-5-24   Reserved
6-5-25   Notice of cancellation or denial of permit
6-5-26   Notice to abate nuisance
6-5-27   Immediate abatement of nuisances
6-5-28   Hearing on order to abate nuisance
6-5-29   Collection of abatement costs
6-5-30   Standards for construction or abandonment
6-5-31   Penalty for violation of subchapter
6-5-32—6-5-39   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Water Efficient Landscaping Regulations
6-5-40   Purpose and intent
6-5-41   Applicability
6-5-42   Implementation procedures
6-5-43   Landscape water use standards
6-5-44   Delegation
6-5-45   Definitions
6-5-46   Model water efficient landscaping ordinance requirements
Cross-reference:
Capping of wells, see §
11-9-34
Plumbing regulations, see §§
8-3-1 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. USE OF WELL WATER ****
§ 6-5-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BENEFICIAL USE and BENEFICIAL PURPOSE. The causing, suffering or permitting
of any water pumped or flowing from any well to be used for the purpose of
irrigation of lands or for domestic use or for the propagation of fish.
   IRRIGATION OF LAND. The artificial application of water to lands whenever
rainfall is insufficient to meet the full water requirements of crops, applied
to lands in such quantities and in such manner, from time to time, during the
growing season of the trees or plants being irrigated, as will provide
sufficient moisture to promote plant growth, having reference to the particular
kind of crops grown and the particular type of soil involved.
   PROPAGATION OF FISH. The breeding or propagating of edible or pet species of
fish where such breeding or propagation is carried on as a commercial
enterprise.
   UNNECESSARILY FLOW. The causing, suffering or permitting water flowing from
an artesian well or pumped from a pumping well to be stored or used for any
purpose other than a beneficial use or beneficial purpose.
   WASTE OF WATER.
      (1)   (a)   The causing, suffering or permitting of any water pumped or
flowing from any well to run into any river, creek or other natural watercourse
or channel, or into any bay or pond or artificial reservoir, or into any
street, road or highway, unless it is used thereafter for a beneficial purpose.
         (b)   Where such water is caused, suffered or permitted to be run into
any pond or artificial reservoir, such storing of water shall be deemed a WASTE
OF WATER, unless it is used thereon for the beneficial purpose of domestic use
or propagation of fish or thereafter removed therefrom and used for the
beneficial purpose of irrigation.
      (2)   The causing, suffering or permitting any water pumped or flowing
from any well to run upon the land of any person, or upon the public lands of
the United States or the state, unless it be used thereon for the beneficial
purposes of irrigation thereof or for the propagation of fish.
      (3)   The causing, suffering or permitting any water pumped or flowing
from any well to be used for a beneficial purpose, where such beneficial use
allows more than 5% of the water so pumped to escape in such a way as would
define the use of such escaped water to be classified as WASTE OF WATER under
this section.
   WATER WELL and WELL. An artificial hole made in the ground through which
water naturally flows from subterranean sources to the surface of the ground,
commonly known and designated as an artesian well, or any well from which water
is obtained by means of a pump or other mechanical device, commonly known and
designated as a pumping well.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 6-5-2 UNLAWFUL USE OF WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, either as owner, tenant, manager, agent
or employee, to cause, permit or suffer any water well under the ownership,
control or management of such person to be operated or used in such manner as
to cause, suffer or permit the water from such well to unnecessarily flow or be
pumped therefrom or to go to waste.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-2) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-5-3 CIVIL EXECUTION ON FINE.
   Any fine imposed for violation of the provisions of this subchapter may be
collected as in other criminal cases, and the court may also issue an execution
upon the judgment therein rendered and the execution may be enforced and
collected as in civil cases.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-3) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 6-5-4—6-5-13 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. CONSTRUCTION AND ABANDONMENT OF WATER WELLS ****
§ 6-5-14 PURPOSE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to control the construction and
reconstruction of wells to the end that the groundwater of the city will not be
impaired in quality and that water obtained from such wells will be suitable
for the purpose for which used and will not jeopardize the health, safety or
welfare of the people of the city, and to provide for the destruction of
abandoned wells or wells found to be public nuisances to the end that such
wells will not impair the quality of groundwater or otherwise jeopardize the
health, safety or welfare of the people of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-14) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-5-15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED and ABANDONMENT. Apply to a well which has not been used for a
period of one year, unless the owner declares in writing to the Well Standards
Advisory Board their intention to use the well again for supplying water or for
other associated purpose, such as use as an observation well or injection well,
and receives approval of such declaration from the Board. All such declarations
shall be renewed annually and at such time shall be resubmitted to the Board
for approval. Test holes and exploratory holes shall be considered ABANDONED 24
hours after construction work has been completed, unless otherwise approved by
the health officer.
   AGRICULTURAL WELL. A water well used to supply water for irrigation or other
agricultural purposes, including so-called stock wells.
   CATHODIC PROTECTION WELL. Any artificial excavation in excess of 50 feet
constructed by any method for the purpose of installing equipment or facilities
for the protection, electrically, of metallic equipment in contact with the
ground, commonly referred to as a CATHODIC PROTECTION WELL or a deep anode.
   COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY WELL. A water well used to supply water for domestic
purposes in systems subject to California Health and Safety Code, §§ 116270 et
seq.
   CONSTRUCT, RECONSTRUCT, CONSTRUCTION and RECONSTRUCTION. To dig, drive,
bore, drill or deepen a well, or to re-perforate, remove, replace or extend a
well casing.
   DESTRUCTION. The proper filling and sealing of a well that is no longer
useful so as to ensure that the groundwater is protected and to eliminate a
potential physical hazard.
   ELECTRICAL GROUNDING WELL. Any artificial excavation in excess of 50 feet
constructed by any method for the purpose of establishing an electrical ground.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Orange County health officer or their designee.
   INDIVIDUAL DOMESTIC WELL. A water well used to supply water for domestic
needs of an individual residence or commercial establishment.
   INDUSTRIAL WELL. A water well used to supply an industry on an individual
basis.
   OBSERVATION WELL. A well used for monitoring or sampling the conditions of a
water-bearing aquifer, such as water pressure, depth, movement or quality.
   PERMIT. A written permit issued by the health officer permitting the
construction, reconstruction, destruction or abandonment of a well.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation or governmental agency.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. When applied to a well, means any well which threatens to
impair the quality of groundwater or otherwise jeopardize the health or safety
of the public.
   SALTWATER (HYDRAULIC) BARRIER WELL. A well used for extracting water from or
injecting water into the underground as a means of preventing the intrusion of
saltwater into a freshwater-bearing aquifer.
   TEST OR EXPLORATORY HOLE. An excavation used for determining the nature of
underground geological or hydrological conditions, whether by seismic
investigation, direct observation or any other means.
   WELL. Any artificial excavation constructed by any method for the purpose of
extracting water from or injecting water into the underground, for providing
cathodic protection or electrical grounding of equipment, for making tests or
observations of underground conditions or for any other similar purpose. WELLS
shall include, but shall not be limited to, community water supply wells,
individual domestic wells, industrial wells, agricultural wells, cathodic
protection wells, electrical grounding wells, test and exploratory holes,
observation wells and saltwater (hydraulic) barrier wells and other wells whose
regulation is necessary to fulfill the purpose of this subchapter as determined
by the Well Standards Advisory Board. WELLS shall not include:
      (1)   Oil and gas wells, geothermal wells or other wells constructed
under the jurisdiction of the California Department of Conservation, except
those wells converted to use as water wells;
      (2)   Wells used for the purpose of dewatering excavations during
construction, or stabilizing hillsides or earth embankments; or
      (3)   Other wells whose regulation is not necessary to fulfill the
purpose of this subchapter as determined by the Well Standards Advisory Board.
   WELLS STANDARD ADVISORY BOARD. The Wells Standard Advisory Board as
appointed by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Orange pursuant to the
codified ordinances of the County of Orange.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-15) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 96-92, § 3,
passed 8-20-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 6-5-16 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-5-17 PERMIT REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE WITH ORDERS OF HEALTH OFFICER AND ADVISORY
BOARD.
   (A)   No person shall, within the city, construct or reconstruct any well
unless such construction or reconstruction is carried out pursuant to and in
conformance with a written permit issued for that purpose by the health officer
as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall abandon a well, unless it has been destroyed pursuant
to and in conformance with a written permit issued by the health officer.
   (C)   No person shall violate the terms of any order issued by the Well
Standards Advisory Board or the health officer issued pursuant to this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-17) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-5-18 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; AMENDMENT OR CANCELLATION.
   (A)   Applications for permits shall be made to the health officer and shall
contain such information as they shall require.
   (B)   Each application shall be accompanied by a fee which shall be
established by the City Council on the basis of the cost incurred in enforcing
the provisions of this subchapter. Fifty percent of the fee shall be returned
to the applicant should the permit be denied or if the permit is canceled
within 60 days after issuance and no work has been done. A permit shall remain
in effect for one year from the date of issuance.
   (C)   Permits may be issued subject to any condition or requirement found by
the health officer to be necessary to accomplish the purposes of this
subchapter.
   (D)   A permit may be canceled or the conditions amended by the health
officer if they determine that to proceed with the work would result in a
public nuisance or that the permit holder has violated the terms of the permit
or this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-18) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-5-19 NOTIFICATION TO HEALTH OFFICER OF COMPLETION OF WORK; INSPECTION.
   The permittee shall notify the health officer, in writing, upon completion
of the work, and no work shall be deemed to have been completed until such
written notification has been received. A final inspection of the work shall be
made by the health officer, and no permittee shall be deemed to have complied
with this subchapter or their permit until such inspection has been performed.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-19) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 6-5-20—6-5-24 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-5-25 NOTICE OF CANCELLATION OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   If a permit is denied or canceled, the applicant or permit holder shall be
given written notice by the health officer, which notice shall specify the
reasons for their action and shall notify the applicant or permit holder of
their right to request a hearing before the Well Standards Advisory Board
within ten days.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-25) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-5-26 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   If the health officer determines that a well constitutes a public nuisance,
they shall mail a written notice to the landowner and the permit holder, if
other than the landowner. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the affected
property. The notice shall state the specific facts giving rise to such
nuisance; the corrective measures deemed necessary; and the time, date and
place at which a hearing shall be held by the Well Standards Advisory Board
relating thereto, which date shall be not less than ten and not more than 30
days after the date such notice is mailed. The notice shall state that if the
Board determines that a public nuisance exists a special assessment shall be
imposed upon the land for any costs of abatement.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-26) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-5-27 IMMEDIATE ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   If the health officer finds that immediate action is necessary to prevent
impairment of the groundwater or a threat to the health or safety of the
public, they may abate the nuisance under this subchapter without giving
notice. Within 24 hours after initiating such abatement, the health officer
shall give notice of a hearing before the Well Standards Advisory Board in the
manner prescribed in §
6-5-26.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-27) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-5-28 HEARING ON ORDER TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   At the time fixed for the hearing as provided for in this subchapter,
the Well Standards Advisory Board shall hear and consider all relevant
testimony and evidence offered by the landowner and by any other interested
person. If the Board finds that a public nuisance exists, it shall direct the
health officer to take any necessary action to protect the groundwater or the
health and safety of the public, unless the situation is corrected by the
landowner on or before a date to be specified by the Board. The costs of such
corrective work by the health officer shall become a special assessment upon
the land pursuant to §
6-5-29.
   (B)   If the Board finds that a permit was improperly denied or canceled, it
shall order the health officer to issue or reinstate such permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-28) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-5-29 COLLECTION OF ABATEMENT COSTS.
   Upon a finding by the Well Standards Advisory Board that a well constitutes
a public nuisance, all costs of abatement carried out under the terms of this
subchapter shall constitute a charge and special assessment upon the parcel of
land involved. If such costs are not paid within 60 days, they shall then be
declared a special assessment against that parcel as provided in California
Government Code, § 25845. Such special assessment shall be collected at the
same time and in the same manner as ordinary city taxes are collected and shall
be subject to the same penalties and the same procedures and sale in case of
delinquency as provided for ordinary city taxes. The city shall retain the
additional and independent right to recover its costs by way of civil action
against the owner and person in possession or control, jointly or severally.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-29) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-5-30 STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION OR ABANDONMENT.
   Standards for the construction, reconstruction, destruction or abandonment
of wells shall be the standards recommended in the California Department of
Water Resources Bulletin Number 74, Chapter II, and future amendments thereto.
Standards for the construction, reconstruction, destruction or abandonment of
cathodic protection wells and electrical grounding wells shall be the standards
recommended in the state department of water resources Bulletin Number 74-1 and
future amendments thereto. Well standards may be modified by the health
officer, with the advice and concurrence of the Well Standards Advisory Board,
where required to cope with the local geological and groundwater conditions.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-30) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-5-31 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Any person who violates the terms of this subchapter or any permit
issued under this subchapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a
fine not exceeding $500.00 or by imprisonment not exceeding six months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day or portion thereof during which any such violation is committed,
continued or permitted, and shall be subject to the same punishment as for the
original offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-31) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 6-5-32—6-5-39 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS ****
§ 6-5-40 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The state legislature has found that:
      (1)   The waters of the state are of limited supply and are subject to
ever increasing demands;
      (2)   The continuation of the state’s economic prosperity is dependent on
the availability of adequate supplies of water for future uses;
      (3)   It is the policy of the state to promote the conservation and
efficient use of water and to prevent the waste of this valuable resource;
      (4)   Landscapes are essential to the quality of life in the state by
providing areas for active and passive recreation and as an enhancement to the
environment by cleaning air and water, preventing erosion, offering fire
protection and replacing ecosystems lost to development;
      (5)   Landscape design, installation, maintenance and management can and
should be water efficient;
      (6)   Article X, § 2 of the California Constitution specifies that the
right to use water is limited to the amount reasonably required for the
beneficial use to be served, and the right does not and shall not extend to
waste or unreasonable method of use of water; and
      (7)   Assembly Bill 1881 (2006) requires adoption by cities of a water
efficient landscape ordinance that is at least as effective for conserving
water as a model water efficient landscape ordinance issued by the California
Department of Water Resources on September 17, 2009.
   (B)   The City Council finds and determines that:
      (1)   The city has an established reclaimed water infrastructure system
for landscape use that reduces the need for importation of potable water
supplies;
      (2)   All water services within the city are metered, such that the water
purveyor can document water use in landscapes;
      (3)   Incentive-based water use efficiency programs have been actively
implemented within the city;
      (4)   Current local design practices in new landscapes typically achieve
the state model water efficient landscape ordinance water use goals;
      (5)   All new irrigation controllers sold after 2012 within the county
will be smart controllers that automatically adjust watering based on actual
need;
      (6)   Landscape plan submittal and review has been a long-standing
practice in the city;
      (7)   The rainfall in the city averages approximately 12 inches per year
and does not reliably offset the need for landscape irrigation; and
      (8)   The local water purveyor is implementing budget-based tiered-rate
billing and enforcement of water waste prohibitions for all existing metered
landscaped areas throughout its service area, which includes the city in its
entirety.
   (C)   Consistent with these findings, the purpose of the city’s water
efficient landscaping regulations is to establish alternative regulations
acceptable under Assembly Bill 1881 as being at least as effective as the state
model water efficient landscape ordinance in the context of conditions in the
city, in order to:
      (1)   Benefit from regulations that are consistent with neighboring local
and regional agencies;
      (2)   Promote the values and benefits of landscapes while recognizing the
need to invest water and other resources as efficiently as possible;
      (3)   Establish a structure for planning, designing, installing,
maintaining and managing water efficient landscapes in new construction and
rehabilitated projects;
      (4)   Establish provisions for water management practices and water waste
prevention for existing landscapes;
      (5)   Use water efficiently without waste by setting a maximum applied
water allowance as an upper limit for water use and reduce water use to the
lowest practical amount; and
      (6)   Encourage the use of economic incentives that promote the efficient
use of water, including, but not limited to, a budget based tiered-rate
structure.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-40) (Ord. 2009-156, § 1, passed 12-15-2009)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2009-156, § 1, adopted 12-15-2009, amended Subchapter 3 in its entirety
to read as herein set out. Former Subchapter 3, §§ 6-5-40 through 6-5-53,
pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from Ord. 93-60, § 1, adopted
3-16-1993
§ 6-5-41 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Beginning January 1, 2010, the water efficient landscaping regulations
shall apply to the following landscape projects:
      (1)   New construction and landscape rehabilitation projects by public
agencies or private non-residential developers with a landscaped area,
including pools or other water features but excluding hardscape, equal to or
greater than 2,500 square feet, and which are otherwise subject to design
review and approval of a landscape plan pursuant to a discretionary permit
(e.g., site development permit, coastal development permit, variance, use
permit, minor adjustment and/or changed plan);
      (2)   New construction and landscape rehabilitation projects by
developers or property managers of single-family and multi-family residential
projects or complexes with a landscaped area, including pools or other water
features but excluding hardscape, equal to or greater than 2,500 square feet,
and which are otherwise subject to design review and approval of a landscape
plan pursuant to a discretionary permit (e.g., site development permit, coastal
development permit, variance, use permit, minor adjustment and/or changed
plan); and
      (3)   New construction landscape installation projects by individual
homeowners on single-family or multi-family residential lots with a project
landscaped area, including pools or other water features but excluding
hardscape, equal to or greater than 5,000 square feet, and which are otherwise
subject to design review and approval of a landscape plan pursuant to a
discretionary permit (e.g., site development permit, coastal development
permit, variance, use permit, minor adjustment and/or changed plan).
   (B)   Section 6-5-43(B) of the landscape water use standards of these water
efficient landscaping regulations shall apply to:
      (1)   All landscaped areas, whether installed prior to or after January
1, 2010; and
      (2)   All landscaped areas installed after January 1, 2010 to which
division (A) above is applicable.
   (C)   These water efficient landscaping regulations do not apply to:
      (1)   Registered local, state or federal historical sites;
      (2)   Ecological restoration projects that do not require a permanent
irrigation system;
      (3)   Mined-land reclamation projects that do not require a permanent
irrigation system; or
      (4)   Plant collections, as part of botanical gardens and arboretums open
to the public.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-41) (Ord. 2009-156, § 1, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 6-5-42 IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDURES.
   The city shall adopt, by resolution, guidelines for implementation to assure
compliance with these water efficient landscaping regulations.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-42) (Ord. 2009-156, § 1, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 6-5-43 LANDSCAPE WATER USE STANDARDS.
   (A)   For applicable landscape installation or rehabilitation projects
subject to §
6-5-41(A) of these water efficient landscaping regulations, the estimated
applied water use allowed for the landscaped area shall not exceed the MAWA
calculated using an ET adjustment factor of 0.7, except for special landscaped
areas where the MAWA is calculated using an ET adjustment factor of 1.0; or the
design of the landscaped area shall otherwise be shown to be equivalently
water-efficient in a manner acceptable to the city, as provided in the
guidelines.
   (B)   Irrigation of all landscaped areas shall be conducted in a manner
conforming to the rules and requirements, and shall be subject to penalties and
incentives for water conservation and water waste prevention as determined and
implemented by the local water purveyor or as mutually agreed by the local
water purveyor and the local agency.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-43) (Ord. 2009-156, § 1, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 6-5-44 DELEGATION.
   The city may delegate to, or enter into a contract with, another local
agency, water purveyor or other contractor to implement, administer and/or
enforce any of the provisions of the water efficient landscape regulations on
behalf of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-44) (Ord. 2009-156, § 1, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 6-5-45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLIED WATER. The portion of water supplied by the irrigation system to the
landscape.
   BUDGET-BASED TIERED-RATE STRUCTURE. Tiered or block rates for irrigation
accounts charged by the retail water agency in which the block definition for
each customer is derived from lot size or irrigated area and the
evapotranspiration requirements of landscaping.
   ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION PROJECT. A project where the site is intentionally
altered to establish a defined, indigenous, historic ecosystem.
   ESTIMATED APPLIED WATER USE. The average annual total amount of water
estimated to be necessary to keep plants in a healthy state, calculated as
provided in the guidelines. It is based on the reference evapotranspiration
rate, the size of the landscape area, plant water use factors and the relative
irrigation efficiency of the irrigation system.
   ET ADJUSTMENT FACTOR or ETAF. Equal to the plant factor divided by the
irrigation efficiency factor for a landscape project, as described in the
guidelines. The ETAF is calculated in the context of local reference
evapotranspiration, using site-specific plant factors and irrigation efficiency
factors that influence the amount of water that needs to be applied to the
specific landscaped area. A combined plant mix with a site-wide average plant
factor of 0.5 (indicating a moderate water need) and average irrigation
efficiency of 0.71 produces an ET ADJUSTMENT FACTOR of (0.7) = (0.5/0.71),
which is the standard of water use efficiency generally required by this water
efficient landscape ordinance and the guidelines, except that the ETAF for a
special landscape area shall not exceed 1.0.
   GUIDELINES. Refers to the guidelines for implementation of the water
efficient landscape ordinance, as adopted by the city, which describes
procedures, calculations and requirements for landscape projects subject to
this water efficient landscape ordinance.
   HARDSCAPES. Any durable material or feature (pervious and non-pervious)
installed around a landscaped area, such as pavements or walls. Pools and other
water features are considered part of the landscaped area and not considered
HARDSCAPES for purposes of this water efficient landscape ordinance.
   HOMEOWNER INSTALLED LANDSCAPE. Any landscaping either installed by a private
individual for a single-family residence or installed by a licensed contractor
hired by a homeowner. A HOMEOWNER, for purposes of this subchapter, is a person
who occupies the dwelling they own. This definition excludes speculative homes,
which are not owner-occupied dwellings and which are subject under this
subchapter to the requirements applicable to developer-installed residential
landscape projects.
   IRRIGATION EFFICIENCY. The measurement of the amount of water beneficially
used divided by the amount of water applied. IRRIGATION EFFICIENCY is derived
from measurements and estimates of irrigation system characteristics and
management practices. Better IRRIGATION EFFICIENCY can be expected from well
designed and maintained systems.
   LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR. A person licensed by the state to construct, maintain,
repair, install or subcontract the development of landscape systems.
   LANDSCAPE DOCUMENTATION PACKAGE. The documents required to be provided to
the city for review and approval of landscape design projects, as described in
the guidelines.
   LANDSCAPE PROJECT. Total area of landscape in a project, as provided in the
definition of LANDSCAPED AREA, meeting the requirements under §
6-5-41 of this water efficient landscape ordinance.
   LANDSCAPED AREA. All the planting areas, turf areas and water features in a
landscape design plan subject to the maximum applied water allowance and
estimated applied water use calculations. The LANDSCAPED AREA does not include
footprints of buildings or structures, sidewalks, driveways, parking lots,
decks, patios, gravel or stone walks, other pervious or non-pervious hardscapes
and other non-irrigated areas designated for non-development (e.g., open spaces
and existing native vegetation).
   LOCAL AGENCY. A city or county, including a charter city or charter county,
that is authorized by the city to implement, administer and/or enforce any of
the provisions of the water efficient landscape ordinance on behalf of the
city. The LOCAL AGENCY may be responsible for the enforcement or delegation of
enforcement of this water efficient landscape ordinance, including, but not
limited to, design review, plan check, issuance of permits and inspection of a
landscape project.
   LOCAL WATER PURVEYOR. Any entity, including a public agency, city, county or
private water company that provides retail water service.
   MAXIMUM APPLIED WATER ALLOWANCE or MAWA. The upper limit of annual applied
water for the established landscaped area as specified in the guidelines. It is
based upon the area’s reference evapotranspiration, the ET adjustment factor
and the size of the landscaped area. The estimated applied water use shall not
exceed the MAXIMUM APPLIED WATER ALLOWANCE.
   MINED-LAND RECLAMATION PROJECTS. Any surface mining operation with a
reclamation plan approved in accordance with the Surface Mining and Reclamation
Act of 1975, being California Public Resources Code, Division 2, Chapter 9, §§
2710 through 2796.5.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. A new building with a landscape, or other new landscape
such as a park, playground or greenbelt without an associated building.
   NON-PERVIOUS. Any surface or natural material that does not allow for the
passage of water through the material and into the underlying soil.
   PERVIOUS. Any surface or material that allows the passage of water through
the material and into the underlying soil.
   PERMIT. An authorizing document issued by local agencies for new
construction or rehabilitated landscape.
   PLANT FACTOR or PLANT WATER USE FACTOR. A factor, when multiplied by ETo,
that estimates the amount of water needed by plants. For purposes of this water
efficient landscape ordinance, the PLANT FACTOR range for low water use plants
is 0 to 0.3; the PLANT FACTOR range for moderate water use plants is 0.4 to
0.6; and the PLANT FACTOR range for high water use plants is 0.7 to 1.0. PLANT
FACTORS cited in this water efficient landscape ordinance are derived from the
Department of Water Resources 2000 publication “Water Use Classification of
Landscape Species”.
   RECYCLED WATER or RECLAIMED WATER. Treated or recycled waste water of a
quality suitable for non-potable uses such as landscape irrigation and water
features. This water is not intended for human consumption.
   REFERENCE EVAPOTRANSPIRATION or ETo. A standard measurement of environmental
parameters which affect the water use of plants. ETo is given expressed in
inches per day, month or year as represented in Appendix A of the guidelines,
and is an estimate of the evapotranspiration of a large field of four-to seven-
inch tall, cool-season grass that is well watered. REFERENCE EVAPOTRANSPIRATION
is used as the basis of determining the maximum applied water allowances.
   REHABILITATED LANDSCAPE. Any re-landscaping project that meets the
applicability criteria of §
6-5-41(A), where the modified landscape area is greater than 2,500 square feet,
is 50% of the total landscape area, and the modifications are planned to occur
within one year.
   SMART AUTOMATIC IRRIGATION CONTROLLER. An automatic timing device used to
remotely control valves that operate an irrigation system and which schedules
irrigation events using either evapotranspiration (weather-based) or soil
moisture data.
   SPECIAL LANDSCAPE AREA. An area of the landscape dedicated solely to edible
plants, such as orchards and vegetable gardens; an area irrigated with recycled
water; a water feature using recycled water; and/or an area dedicated to active
play such as parks, sports fields, golf courses, swimming pools and where turf
provides a playing surface.
   TURF. A ground cover surface of mowed grass. Annual bluegrass, Kentucky
bluegrass, Perennial ryegrass, Red fescue and Tall fescue are cool-season
grasses. Bermudagrass, Kikuyugrass, Seashore Paspalum, St. Augustinegrass,
Zoysiagrass and Buffalo grass are warm-season grasses.
   VALVE. A device used to control the flow of water in an irrigation system.
   WATER FEATURE. A design element where open water performs an aesthetic or
recreational function. WATER FEATURES include ponds, lakes, waterfalls,
fountains, artificial streams, spas and swimming pools (where water is
artificially supplied). The surface area of WATER FEATURES is included in the
high water use hydrozone of the landscaped area. Constructed wetlands used for
on-site wastewater treatment, habitat protection or stormwater best management
practices that are not irrigated and used solely for water treatment or
stormwater retention are not WATER FEATURES and, therefore, are not subject to
the water budget calculation.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-45) (Ord. 2009-156, § 1, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 6-5-46 MODEL WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPING ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Property owners or their building or landscape designers, including anyone
requiring a building or planning permit, plan check or landscape design review
from the city, who are constructing a new single-family, multi-family, public,
institutional or commercial project with a landscape area greater than 500
square feet, or rehabilitating an existing landscape with a total landscape
area greater than 2,500 square feet shall comply with the requirements of §
6-3-710.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-46) (Ord. 2021-209, § 3, passed 5-4-2021)
***** CHAPTER 6: NOISE CONTROL *****
Section
Subchapter 1. General Provisions
6-6-1   Declaration of policy
6-6-2   Definitions
6-6-3   Noise level measurement equipment
6-6-4   Designated noise zone
6-6-5   Exterior noise standards
6-6-6   Interior noise standards
6-6-7   Exemptions from subchapter
6-6-8   Creation of noise near schools, hospitals and churches
6-6-8   .1Motor vehicle racing
6-6-9   Air conditioning and refrigeration equipment
6-6-10   Noise level measurement location
6-6-11   Enforcement of subchapter
6-6-12   Variance procedure
6-6-13   Noise Variance Board
6-6-14   Appeal of decisions of Variance Board
6-6-15   Violation of subchapter
Cross-reference:
Creating disturbance by vehicle, see §
11-8-48
Noisy animals, see §
10-1-48
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 6-6-1 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   In order to control unnecessary, excessive and annoying sounds emanating
from the city, it is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to prohibit
such sounds generated from all sources as specified in this subchapter. It is
determined that certain sound levels are detrimental to the public health,
welfare and safety, and contrary to public interest.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-6-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL. The all-encompassing noise level associated with a
given environment, being a composite of sounds from all sources, excluding the
alleged offensive noise, at the location and approximate time at which a
comparison with the alleged offensive noise is to be made.
   CUMULATIVE PERIOD. An additive period of time composed of individual time
segments which may be continuous or interrupted.
   DECIBEL (dB). A unit which denotes the ratio between two quantities which
are proportional to power; the number of decibels corresponding to the ratio of
two amounts of power is ten times the logarithm to the base ten of this ratio.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EMERGENCY MACHINERY, VEHICLE or WORK. Any machinery, vehicle or work used,
employed or performed in an effort to protect, provide or restore safe
conditions in the community or for the citizenry, or work by private or public
utilities when restoring utility service.
   FIXED NOISE SOURCE. A stationary device which creates sounds while fixed or
motionless, including, but not limited to, industrial and commercial machinery
and equipment, pumps, fans, compressors, generators, air conditioners and
refrigeration equipment.
   GRADING. Any excavating or filling of earth material, or any combination
thereof, conducted at a site to prepare the site for construction or other
improvements thereon.
   IMPACT NOISE. The noise produced by the collision of one mass in motion with
a second mass which may be either in motion or at rest.
   MOBILE NOISE SOURCE. Any noise source other than a fixed noise source.
   NOISE LEVEL. The A-weighted sound pressure level in decibels obtained by
using a sound level meter at slow response with a reference pressure of 20
micronewtons per square meter. The unit of measurement shall be designated as
dB(A).
   PERSON. A person, firm, association, copartnership, joint venture,
corporation or any entity, public or private in nature.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A parcel of real property which is developed and used
either in part or in whole for residential purposes, other than transient uses
such as hotels and motels.
   SIMPLE TONE NOISE. A noise characterized by a predominant frequency so that
other frequencies cannot be readily distinguished.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument meeting American National Standard
Institute Standard S1.4-1971 for Type 1 or Type 2 sound level meters or an
instrument and the associated recording and analyzing equipment which will
provide equivalent data.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL OF A SOUND. In decibels, means 20 times the logarithm
to the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of the sound to a reference
pressure, which reference pressure shall be explicitly stated.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-2) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 6-6-3 NOISE LEVEL MEASUREMENT EQUIPMENT.
   Any noise level measurements made pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter shall be performed using a sound level meter.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-3) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-6-4 DESIGNATED NOISE ZONE.
   The entire territory of the city is hereby designated as noise zone one.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-4) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-6-5 EXTERIOR NOISE STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   The following noise standards, unless otherwise specifically
indicated, shall apply to all residential property within a designated noise
zone:
 
Noise Standards
Noise Zone Noise Level Time Period
           50 dB(A)    10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
 
      (2)   If the alleged offensive noise consists entirely of impact noise,
simple tone noise, speech or music, or any combination thereof, each of the
noise levels specified in the table in this division (A)(2) shall be reduced by
five dB(A).
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person at any location within the city to
create any noise, or to allow the creation of any noise on property owned,
leased, occupied or otherwise controlled by such person, when such noise causes
the noise level, when measured on any other residential property, to exceed:
      (1)   The noise standard for a cumulative period of more than 30 minutes
in any hour;
      (2)   The noise standard, plus five dB(A) for a cumulative period of more
than 15 minutes in any hour;
      (3)   The noise standard, plus ten dB(A) for a cumulative period of more
than five minutes in any hour;
      (4)   The noise standard, plus 15 dB(A) for a cumulative period of more
than one minute in any hour; or
      (5)   The noise standard, plus 20 dB(A) for any period of time.
   (C)   (1)   If the ambient noise level exceeds any of the first four noise
limit categories in division (B) above, the cumulative period applicable to
such category shall be increased to reflect the ambient noise level.
      (2)   If the ambient noise level exceeds the fifth noise limit category,
the maximum allowable noise level under such category shall be increased to
reflect the maximum ambient noise level.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-5) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-6-6 INTERIOR NOISE STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   The following interior noise standards, unless otherwise
specifically indicated, shall apply to all residential property within a
designated noise zone:
 
Interior Noise Standards
Noise Zone Noise Level Time Period
           45 dB(A)    10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
 
      (2)   If the alleged offensive noise consists entirely of impact noise,
simple tone noise, speech or music, or any combination thereof, each of the
noise levels specified in the table in this division (A)(2) shall be reduced by
five dB(A).
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person at any location within the city to
create any noise, or to allow the creation of any noise on property owned,
leased, occupied or otherwise controlled by such person, when such noise causes
the noise level, when measured within any other dwelling unit on any
residential property, to exceed:
      (1)   The interior noise standard for a cumulative period of more than
five minutes in any hour;
      (2)   The interior noise standard plus five dB(A) for a cumulative period
of more than one minute in any hour; or
      (3)   The interior noise standard plus ten dB(A) for any period of time.
   (C)   (1)   If the ambient noise level exceeds either of the first two noise
limit categories in division (B) above, the cumulative period applicable to the
category shall be increased to reflect such ambient noise level.
      (2)   If the ambient noise level exceeds the third noise limit category,
the maximum allowable noise level under the category shall be increased to
reflect the maximum ambient noise level.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-6) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-6-7 EXEMPTIONS FROM SUBCHAPTER.
   The following activities shall be exempted from the provisions of this
subchapter:
   (A)   Activities conducted on the grounds of any public or private nursery,
elementary, intermediate or secondary school or college;
   (B)   Outdoor gatherings, public dances and shows, provided such events are
conducted pursuant to a license issued by the city pursuant to Title 5;
   (C)   Activities conducted on any park or playground; provided such park or
playground is owned and operated by a public entity;
   (D)   Any mechanical device, apparatus or equipment used, related to or
connected with emergency machinery, vehicles or work;
   (E)   Noise sources associated with construction, repair, remodeling or
grading of any real property; provided such activities do not take place
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays, including Saturday,
or at any time on Sunday or a federal holiday;
   (F)   All mechanical devices, apparatus or equipment which are utilized for
the protection or salvage of agricultural crops during periods of potential or
actual frost damage or other adverse weather conditions;
   (G)   Mobile noise sources associated with agricultural operations; provided
such operations do not take place between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
on weekdays, including Saturday, or at any time on Sunday or a federal holiday;
   (H)   Mobile noise sources associated with agricultural pest control through
pesticide application; provided that the application is made in accordance with
restricted material permits issued by or regulations enforced by the
Agricultural Commissioner;
   (I)   Noise sources associated with the maintenance of real property;
provided such activities take place between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on any day
except Sunday or a federal holiday, or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 8:00
p.m. on Sunday or a federal holiday;
   (J)   Any activity to the extent regulation thereof has been preempted by
state or federal law; and
   (K)   (1)   Noise sources associated with the construction, repair or
maintenance of any public street, or the construction, installation, repair or
maintenance of any facilities owned by or operated by the city or a utility,
including, but not limited to, water, sewer, electricity, gas, storm drain,
traffic control, telephone and cable television; provided the Director of
Public Works determines that an unusual or unique condition exists and that all
other reasonable alternatives are not feasible for the construction, repair or
maintenance to take place between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on weekdays,
including Saturdays.
      (2)   Unusual and unique conditions for which there are no reasonable
feasible alternatives include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Construction, repair or maintenance of a public street that
would have an adverse impact on the flow of traffic on that street if such
construction, repair or maintenance took place between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
on weekdays, including Saturdays;
         (b)   Construction, installation, maintenance or repair of water,
sewer, electricity, gas, storm drain, traffic control, telephone or cable
television lines and appurtenant facilities when there would be less
interference with the use of such utilities and facilities by members of the
public at night than during normal working hours;
         (c)   Sewer line repairs when there would be minimal flow in the line
at night;
         (d)   Construction, repair or maintenance of facilities over existing
public streets, such as power lines and bridges;
         (e)   Construction, repair or maintenance of a public street that
requires that the street be closed in both directions; and
         (f)   Construction, repair or maintenance of a public street that is
at or near a freeway, especially if the California Department of Transportation
requires that such work be done at night.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-7) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2007-149, § 2,
passed 10-16-2007)
§ 6-6-8 CREATION OF NOISE NEAR SCHOOLS, HOSPITALS AND CHURCHES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create any noise which causes the
noise level at any school, hospital or church while the school, hospital or
church is in use to exceed the noise limits as specified in §
6-6-5 prescribed for the assigned noise zone in which the school, hospital or
church is located, or which noise level unreasonably interferes with the use of
such institutions or which unreasonably disturbs or annoys patients in the
hospital; provided conspicuous signs are displayed in three separate locations
within one-tenth mile of the institution indicating the presence of a school,
church or hospital.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-8) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-6-8.1 MOTOR VEHICLE RACING.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct motor vehicle racing, testing, timing or
similar noise-producing activities at raceways, speedways, off-road vehicle
courses, drag strips or other similar places, including, but not limited to,
the operation of midget race cars, drag cars, motorcycles, off-road vehicles
and specialty automobiles, between the hours of 11:30 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-8.1) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Creating disturbance by vehicle, see §
11-8-48
   Highways, right-of-way and vehicles, see Title 7
§ 6-6-9 AIR CONDITIONING AND REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT.
   During the five-year period following the effective date of this subchapter,
the noise standards enumerated in §§
6-6-5 and
6-6-6 shall be increased eight dB(A) where the alleged offensive noise source
is an air conditioning or refrigeration system or associated equipment which
was installed prior to the effective date of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-9) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-6-10 NOISE LEVEL MEASUREMENT LOCATION.
   The location selected for measuring exterior noise levels shall be at any
point on the affected property. Interior noise measurements shall be made
within the affected dwelling unit. The measurement shall be made at a point at
least four feet from the wall, ceiling or floor nearest the alleged offensive
noise source and may be made with the windows of the affected unit open.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-10) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-6-11 ENFORCEMENT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, and their duly authorized representatives, are
directed to enforce the provisions of this subchapter. The Chief of Police and
their duly authorized representatives are authorized, pursuant to California
Penal Code, § 836.5, to arrest any person without a warrant where they have
reasonable cause to believe that such person has committed a misdemeanor in
their presence.
   (B)   No person shall interfere with, oppose or resist any authorized person
charged with the enforcement of this subchapter while such person is engaged in
the performance of their duty.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-11) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 96-92, § 5,
passed 8-20-1996)
§ 6-6-12 VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The owner or operator of a noise source which violates any of the
provisions of this subchapter may file an application with the Chief of Police
for a variance from the provisions of this subchapter, wherein the owner or
operator shall set forth all actions taken to comply with such provisions, the
reasons why immediate compliance cannot be achieved and a proposed method of
achieving compliance and a proposed time schedule for its accomplishment. The
application shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount that shall be as set
forth in the schedule of fees and charges established by city policy or
resolution of the City Council. A separate application shall be filed for each
noise source; provided, however, that several mobile sources under common
ownership, or several fixed sources on a single property, may be combined into
one application. Upon receipt of the application and fee, the Chief of Police
shall refer it, with their recommendation thereon, within 30 days, to the Noise
Variance Board for action thereon in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   An applicant for a variance shall remain subject to prosecution under
the terms of this subchapter until a variance is granted.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-12) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 96-92, § 6,
passed 8-20-1996)
§ 6-6-13 NOISE VARIANCE BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a noise variance board consisting of five
members. Two of the members shall be professional engineers, one of whom shall
have demonstrated knowledge and experience in the field of acoustics and one of
whom shall be a registered mechanical engineer. One member shall be a physician
licensed in this state, qualified in the field of physiological effects of
noise. One member shall be a representative of business and industry. One
member shall be a representative of the general public.
   (B)   The Noise Variance Board shall evaluate all applications for variance
from the requirements of this subchapter and may grant such variances with
respect to time for compliance, subject to such terms, conditions and
requirements as it may deem reasonable to achieve maximum compliance with the
provisions of subchapter. Such terms, conditions and requirements may include,
but shall not be limited to, limitations on noise levels and operating hours.
Each such variance shall set forth in detail the approved method of achieving
maximum compliance and a time schedule for its accomplishment. In its
determinations, the Board shall consider the magnitude of nuisance caused by
the offensive noise; the uses of property within the area of impingement by the
noise; the time factors related to study, design, financing and construction of
remedial work; the economic factors related to age and useful life of
equipment; and the general public interest and welfare. Any variance granted by
the Board shall be by resolution and shall be transmitted to the health officer
for enforcement. Any violation of the terms of the variance shall be unlawful.
   (C)   Members of the Variance Board shall be appointed by and shall serve at
the pleasure of the City Council. The Board shall adopt reasonable rules and
regulations for its own procedures in carrying out its functions under the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   Three members shall constitute a quorum and at least three affirmative
votes shall be required in support of any action.
   (E)   The Chief of Police, or their appointed representative, shall be a
nonvoting ex officio member of the Variance Board, and shall act as Secretary
of the Board.
   (F)   Meetings of the Noise Variance Board shall be held at the call of the
Secretary and at such times and locations as the Board shall determine. All
such meetings shall be open to the public.
   (G)   Traveling and other expenses incurred by each Board member in the
performance of their official duties shall be reimbursed at a rate determined
by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-13) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 96-92, § 7,
passed 8-20-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Commissions, boards and committees, see §§
2-3-1 et seq.
§ 6-6-14 APPEAL OF DECISIONS OF VARIANCE BOARD.
   (A)   Within 15 days following the decision of the Noise Variance Board on
an application, the applicant, Chief of Police or any member of the City
Council may appeal the decision to the City Council by filing a notice of
appeal with the Secretary of the Variance Board. In the case of an appeal by
the applicant for a variance, the notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a
fee to be computed by the Secretary on the basis of the estimated cost of
preparing the materials required to be forwarded to the City Council as
discussed in this section. If the actual cost of such preparation differs from
the estimated cost, appropriate payments shall be made either to or by the
Secretary.
   (B)   Within 15 days following receipt of a notice of appeal and the appeal
fee, the Secretary of the Variance Board shall forward to the City Council
copies of the application for variance, the recommendation of the Chief of
Police, the notice of appeal and all evidence concerning the application
received by the Variance Board and its decision thereon. In addition, any
person may file with the City Council written arguments supporting or attacking
the decision and the City Council may in its discretion hear oral arguments
thereon. The City Clerk shall mail to the applicant a notice of the date set
for hearing of the appeal. The notice shall be mailed at least ten days prior
to the hearing date.
   (C)   Within 60 days following its receipt of the notice of appeal, the City
Council shall either affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the Variance
Board. Such decision shall be based upon the City Council’s evaluation of the
matters submitted to the City Council in light of the powers conferred on the
Variance Board and the factors to be considered, both as enumerated in §§
6-6-12 and
6-6-13.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-14) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 96-92, § 8,
passed 8-20-1996)
§ 6-6-15 VIOLATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such. The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed as
permitting conduct not prescribed in this subchapter, and shall not affect the
enforceability of any other applicable provisions of law.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-15) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
***** CHAPTER 7: PUBLIC SMOKING *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Legislative Finding
6-7-1   Finding of facts
6-7-2—6-7-9   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Smoking in Buildings Owned or Leased by City
6-7-10   Definitions
6-7-11   Smoking prohibited except in designated areas
Subchapter 3. Smoking in Places Open to the Public
6-7-12   Smoking prohibited in certain places
6-7-13   Smoking in buildings owned or leased by city
6-7-14   Reserved
6-7-15   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Smoking in Private Places of Employment
6-7-16   Definitions
6-7-17   Duties of employers
6-7-18   Enforcement of subchapter
6-7-19   Exemptions from subchapter
6-7-20   Reserved
Subchapter 5. Posting of Signs
6-7-21   Required
6-7-22—6-7-26   Reserved
Subchapter 6. Violations and Penalties
6-7-27   Penalty for violation of chapter
6-7-28—6-7-30   Reserved
Subchapter 7. Severability
6-7-31   Severability
Cross-reference:
Administration and personnel, see Title 2
Business regulations, see Title 5
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. LEGISLATIVE FINDING ****
§ 6-7-1 FINDING OF FACTS.
   The City Council finds and declares that tobacco smoking is a hazard to the
health of the general public. Studies clearly demonstrate that smoking is a
hazard to the health of those who smoke. In addition, recent studies indicate
that involuntary inhalation of smoke is unhealthful to non-smokers.
Furthermore, studies have shown higher costs associated with smoking in the
workplace due to increases in absenteeism, accidents and costs of medical care,
as well as lost productivity and damage to property from burns, extra cleaning
and maintenance. Because smoking of tobacco or any other weed or plant is such
a positive danger to health and a material annoyance, inconvenience, discomfort
and health hazard to those who are present in confined spaces, as well as
resulting in higher costs of employment, and, in order to serve public health,
safety and welfare, the declared purpose of this chapter is to prohibit the
smoking of tobacco or any other weed or plant in buildings owned or leased by
the city and in public places subject to the jurisdiction or control of the
city, except in designated smoking areas or as otherwise provided in this
chapter. The City Council further declares that the protection of the health,
safety and welfare of the public, both smokers and nonsmokers, requires the
regulation and control of smoking in the private workplace.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 6-7-2—6-7-9 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. SMOKING IN BUILDINGS OWNED OR LEASED BY CITY ****
§ 6-7-10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. Includes all entities of which the City Council is the governing body.
   DEPARTMENT HEAD. The person who is the principal officer or employee of an
agency, department or district for the discharge of duties provided by law or
particular delegated functions. Where an agency, department or district shares
a common area of a building or leased area with another agency, department or
district, the official designated for such purpose by the City Council will be
considered the DEPARTMENT HEAD with respect to common areas.
   SMOKE or SMOKING. Includes the carrying, holding, possession or smoking of a
lighted pipe or cigar or cigarette of any kind, or the lighting of a pipe,
cigar or cigarette of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-10) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 6-7-11 SMOKING PROHIBITED EXCEPT IN DESIGNATED AREAS.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in buildings owned or leased by the city, except
in designated areas, as provided in this section, in accordance with state and
federal laws.
   (A)   Selection and posting of designated areas.
      (1)   Smoking shall be permitted in those areas designated by the
department head, with the concurrence of the City Manager’s office, which are
posted with appropriate signs such as signs reading “Smoking Permitted in This
Area”. Smoking shall not be permitted in such areas until such written
concurrence is given.
      (2)   The City Manager’s office shall be guided by the following
criteria.
         (a)   The goal shall be to implement a uniform policy of permitting
smoking in certain designated areas.
         (b)   Existing physical barriers and ventilation systems shall be
considered to minimize the effect of smoke in adjacent nonsmoking areas.
         (c)   Consideration may be given to time as well as place in
designation of permissible smoking areas; for example, where an employee lounge
is designated as a smoking area, smoking may be prohibited during normal meal
hours.
         (d)   The area comprising the designated smoking area should comprise
no more than approximately ten percent of the usable floorspace of the
particular city-owned or city-leased building.
         (e)   Flexibility and consideration of the needs of both smokers and
nonsmokers should provide for resolution of most problems; however, the health
concerns of nonsmokers shall be given priority consideration in resolving any
conflicts arising from implementation of this policy.
         (f)   Where an agency, department or district shares a building or
leased area with another agency, department or district, the official
designated for such purpose by the City Council shall conduct a review of such
shared areas for possible recommendation of designated areas to the City
Manager’s office for concurrence.
   (B)   Review of restrictions.
      (1)   (a)   There is established a no smoking ordinance compliance
committee.
         (b)   The membership of the Committee shall be as specified by the
City Council. Staff support shall be provided by the City Manager’s office.
      (2)   The Committee shall meet, as necessary, in the following
situations:
         (a)   Where a department head seeks review of the nonconcurrence of
the City Manager’s office, relating to division (A) above;
         (b)   Where an employee seeks review of action under division (A)
above creating a designated area;
         (c)   Where an employee seeks review of a department head’s action not
to create a designated area under division (A) above; and
         (d)   At least twice annually, to review all concurrences granted by
the City Manager’s office for consistency with the objectives of this chapter
and correct inconsistencies where appropriate.
      (3)   (a)   The No Smoking Ordinance Compliance Committee shall be guided
by those factors enumerated under division (A) above and shall be empowered, if
necessary, to supersede any action of the City Manager’s office or the
department head, or both, relating to the creation of designated areas under
division (A) above.
         (b)   If one of the members of the No Smoking Ordinance Compliance
Committee is also the Department Head involved in a review proceeding under
division (B)(2)(a), (B)(2)(b) or (B)(2)(c) above, the City Attorney, or their
designee, shall act on the Committee in place of such person.
   (C)   Notice to employees. The provisions of this chapter shall be
communicated to all current employees and to all future employees at the time
of their entry into employment.
   (D)   Assistance to employees who smoke. The personnel department, in
cooperation with the health officer, shall assist employees who wish such
assistance in locating and enrolling in classes on how to break their smoking
habit.
   (E)   Exemptions. The following places shall not be subject to the
provisions of this subchapter, but shall be subject to smoking regulations as
determined by the Chief of Police:
      (1)   Jails or other adult detention facilities; and
      (2)   Prisoner holding areas in adult court facilities.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-11) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. SMOKING IN PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC ****
§ 6-7-12 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in the following public places within the city
in accordance with state and federal laws:
   (A)   Elevators open to and in use by the public;
   (B)   Waiting rooms, public hallways and patients’ rooms of every private or
public health care facility, including, but not limited to, hospitals, except
rooms limited to a single patient and not open to the general public;
   (C)   Within every room, chamber, place of meeting or public assembly,
during such time as a meeting required by law to be open to the general public
is in progress;
   (D)   Within any building or room not open to the sky, except the lobby,
when that building or room is open to the public for the purpose of exhibiting
any motion picture, stage drama, lecture, musical recital or other similar
performance, except when smoking is part of the stage production;
   (E)   In any establishment where food is being served to the general public
having an occupied capacity of 50 or more persons; provided, however, that this
prohibition against smoking shall not apply within an establishment wherein a
no smoking area of not less than 20% of the floorspace and of the seating
capacity in which customers are served is maintained;
   (F)   In the halls, reading and viewing rooms of museums and libraries when
open to the public; and
   (G)   Within retail stores doing business with the general public in areas
posted by the management to that effect, except in areas not open to the
public.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-12) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-7-13 SMOKING IN BUILDINGS OWNED OR LEASED BY CITY.
   Those places open to the public under § 6-7-12 located within buildings
owned or leased by the city shall be regulated under §
6-7-12; the prohibitions of §
6-7-11 shall be inapplicable to such public places.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-13) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-7-14 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 6-7-15 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. SMOKING IN PRIVATE PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT ****
§ 6-7-16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who is employed by any private employer in
consideration for direct or indirect monetary wages or profit.
   PRIVATE EMPLOYER AND EMPLOYER. Any person, not a governmental entity, who
employs the services of ten or more individual persons.
   PRIVATE PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any enclosed area under the control of a
private employer in the city which employees normally frequent during the
course of employment, including, but not limited to, working areas, employee
lounges, conference rooms and employee cafeterias.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-16) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 6-7-17 DUTIES OF EMPLOYERS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of employers to provide smoke-free
areas for nonsmokers within existing facilities to the maximum extent possible,
but employers are not required to incur any expense to make structural or other
physical modifications in providing these areas.
   (B)   Each employer shall adopt, implement and maintain a written no smoking
policy, in accordance with state and federal laws, which shall contain at a
minimum the following.
      (1)   Smoking shall be prohibited in employer conference and meeting
rooms, classrooms, auditoriums, restrooms, medical facilities, hallways and
elevators.
      (2)   A contiguous no smoking area shall be provided and maintained of
not less than 50% of the seating capacity and floorspace in cafeterias,
lunchrooms and employee lounges.
      (3)   Consideration should be given to time as well as place in the
prohibition of smoking, especially in smaller employee lounges, where smoking
could be prohibited in the entire room during normal meal hours.
      (4)   Any employee in the office workplace should be given the right to
designate their immediate assigned work area, at a fixed location, as a
nonsmoking area, and to post it with appropriate signs to be provided by the
employer.
      (5)   In any dispute arising under the smoking policy, the health
concerns of the non-smoker shall be given precedence.
      (6)   Whenever smoking is prohibited, conspicuous signs shall be posted
so stating.
   (C)   The smoking policy shall be communicated to all employees within three
weeks of its adoption, and to all future employees at the time of their entry
into employment.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B) above, every employer
shall have the right to designate any place of employment, or any portion
thereof, as a nonsmoking area.
   (E)   An employer who makes reasonable efforts to develop and promulgate a
policy regarding smoking and nonsmoking in the workplace shall be deemed to be
in compliance with this section; provided that a policy which knowingly omits
the minimum requirements of division (B) above shall not be deemed in
compliance.
   (F)   No person or employer shall discharge or in any manner retaliate
against any employee because such employee exercises any rights afforded by
this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-17) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 6-7-18 ENFORCEMENT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Compliance with this subchapter concerning adoption, implementation
and maintenance of a no smoking policy is mandatory. Employers who willfully
fail to comply with the provisions of this subchapter may be subject to the
penalties prescribed in §
6-7-27.
   (B)   A self-certification shall be prepared by the owner, manager, operator
or other person having control of such establishment, that all requirements of
this subchapter have been complied with. Such document shall be maintained on
the premises of the establishment and be made available, on request, to any
peace officer, the County Sheriff’s Department, the County Fire Authority or
any health department, or to any employee of the establishment.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-18) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 96-92, § 9,
passed 8-20-1996)
§ 6-7-19 EXEMPTIONS FROM SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provisions of this subchapter to the contrary, no
regulation or prohibition of smoking is required in the following areas:
      (1)   For purposes of this section, the term BAR means an area which is
devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption by guests on the
premises and in which the serving of food is only incidental to the consumption
of such beverages. Although a restaurant may contain a bar, the term BAR shall
not include the restaurant dining area;
      (2)   Private residences, except when used as a child care or health care
facility, and during such activity;
      (3)   Hotel and motel rooms rented to guests;
      (4)   Establishments devoted to the exclusive sale of tobacco or tobacco
related products;
      (5)   While being used for private functions, rooms in eating
establishments, hotel and motel conference and meeting rooms and public and
private assembly rooms;
      (6)   The dining area of any establishment where food is being served to
the general public, which is not a private place of employment for purposes of
this subchapter, but shall be governed by the provisions of §
6-7-12(E); and
      (7)   A private enclosed office workplace occupied exclusively by
smokers, even though such an office workplace may be visited by nonsmokers.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, any owner,
operator, manager or other person who controls a business may declare that
entire business as a nonsmoking establishment.
   (C)   Any owner or manager of a business or other establishment subject to
this subchapter may apply to the Chief of Police for an exemption or
modification to any provision of this subchapter due to unusual circumstances
or conditions, such as a showing of financial impracticability.
   (D)   This subchapter shall not be interpreted or construed to permit
smoking where it is otherwise restricted by other applicable Health, Safety or
Fire Code or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-19) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 96-92, § 10,
passed 8-20-1996)
§ 6-7-20 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 5. POSTING OF SIGNS ****
§ 6-7-21 REQUIRED.
   Signs which designate smoking or no smoking areas established by this
chapter shall be clearly, sufficiently and conspicuously posted in rooms,
buildings or other places so covered by this chapter as reasonably deemed
necessary by the department head, operator, manager or other person having
control of such room, building or other place. Where possible, ashtrays,
receptacles or other devices used for extinguishing or discarding smoking
materials shall be removed from all no smoking areas. Any sign posted under
this subchapter shall reference §
6-7-1.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-21) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 6-7-22—6-7-26 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 6. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES ****
§ 6-7-27 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF CHAPTER.
   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of an infraction, and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed $100.00 per violation, per day.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-27) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 6-7-28—6-7-30 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 7. SEVERABILITY ****
§ 6-7-31 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this chapter which can be given effect without
the invalid provisions or applications, and to this end the provisions of this
chapter are severable.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-31) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
***** CHAPTER 8: FLAVORED ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE PRODUCTS *****
Section
Subchapter 1. General Provisions
6-8-1   Flavored electronic cigarette products; sale prohibited
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 6-8-1 FLAVORED ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE PRODUCTS; SALE PROHIBITED.
   The sale, or offering to sell, of flavored electronic cigarette products is
prohibited in the city as set forth in Title 5, Chapter 3, Subchapter 15.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-1) (Ord. 2019-199, § 4, passed 11-19-2019)
***** CHAPTER 9: AMBULANCE SERVICE *****
Section
Subchapter 1. General Provisions
6-9-1   Intent and purpose of chapter
6-9-2   Definitions
6-9-3   License required; exceptions
6-9-4   Transfer and term of license
6-9-5   Application for license
6-9-6   Investigation of applicants for license
6-9-7   Issuance or denial of license
6-9-8   Suspension or revocation of license
6-9-9   Appeals
6-9-10   Notification to health officer of change of ownership or interruption
of service
6-9-11   Personnel standards
6-9-12   Rates
6-9-13   Contracts for service
6-9-14   Additional rules and regulations
6-9-15   Investigation of complaints
6-9-16   Variances
6-9-17   Violation of chapter
Cross-reference:
Business regulations, see Title 5
Public safety, see §§ 11-9-1 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 6-9-1 INTENT AND PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   It is the intent of this chapter to establish general operating procedures
and standards for medical transportation services operating within the city in
both emergency and other situations, to provide a fair and impartial means of
allowing responsible private operators, to provide such services in the public
interest and to provide a means for the designation of emergency response
areas.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-23, § 2,
passed 6-19-1990)
§ 6-9-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT SERVICE and BASIC LIFE SUPPORT SERVICE. The same as
defined in the California Health and Safety Code.
   AMBULANCE. A motor vehicle, helicopter or similar vehicle specifically
constructed, modified, equipped or arranged and operated for the purpose of
transporting patients requiring immediate or ongoing medical services,
excluding the transportation of such persons to or from locations not providing
services as defined in this chapter.
   AMBULANCE SERVICE. The activity, business or service, for hire, profit or
otherwise, of transporting one or more persons by ambulance; provided, however,
AMBULANCE SERVICE shall not include the transportation by ambulance by an
employer of its own employees in an ambulance owned and operated by the
employer solely for this purpose.
   AMBULANCE SERVICE OPERATOR. Any person who operates or owns an ambulance
service.
   ATTENDANT. A trained, qualified individual who, regardless of whether they
also serve as driver, is responsible for the care of patients.
   CITY. The City of Laguna Niguel, California.
   COUNTY. The County of Orange, State of California.
   DEPARTMENT. The emergency medical services agency of the county or the
health care agency of the county, or as otherwise designated by the County
Board of Supervisors.
   DISPATCHER. An individual employed by an ambulance service operator
responsible for sending an ambulance to provide ambulance service to a patient.
   DRIVER. An attendant who drives or pilots an ambulance.
   EMERGENCY. A sudden, unforeseen event giving rise to a need for ambulance
service with basic or advanced life support services and is a condition in
which an individual has a need for immediate medical attention, or where the
potential for such need is perceived by emergency medical personnel or a public
safety agency.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE AREA. A geographical location specified by the Fire Chief
within which emergency service may be provided under a license.
   EMERGENCY SERVICE. Ambulance service performed in response to an emergency.
   EXCLUSIVE OPERATING AREA (EOA). The same as defined in the Health and Safety
Code, § 1797.85, and which is established pursuant to the Health and Safety
Code, § 1797.224.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Fire Chief of the Orange County Fire Authority.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The county health officer or other official designated by
the County Board of Supervisors to perform the health officer’s functions under
this chapter.
   LICENSEE. An ambulance service operator which has been granted a license
under this chapter to provide ambulance service.
   MEDICAL SERVICES. Services provided by health care professionals licensed
pursuant to the California Business and Professions Code or as specified by
regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter.
   PARAMEDIC. The same as defined in the California Health and Safety Code.
   PATIENT. A wounded, injured, sick, invalid or otherwise incapacitated
person.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association or other
group or combination acting as a unit.
   PHYSICIAN. A medical doctor or osteopath holding the appropriate license or
certificate to practice as such with the state pursuant to the California
Business and Professions Code.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. Any public law enforcement agency, fire protection
agency or forest ranger operating in the county.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-2) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-23, § 2,
passed 6-19-1990; Ord. 96-92, § 11, passed 8-20-1996; Ord. 2004-135, § 2,
passed 6-1-2004)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 6-9-3 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be an ambulance service
operator, or to act in such a capacity, either directly or indirectly, within
the city, without possession of a license issued pursuant to this chapter. A
license may specify the specific geographical area within the city in which it
is valid; provided, however, with respect to EOAs, reference to the EOA by a
specific number or similar identification shall be sufficient description of
geographic limitation. A license shall be valid for not more than one calendar
year or until the expiration of the calendar year in which it was issued,
whichever is shorter.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Ambulances operated at the request of a public safety agency during
any state of war emergency, state of emergency or local emergency, as defined
in the California Government Code;
      (2)   Ambulance service transporting a patient from a location outside of
the city, regardless of destination; and
      (3)   Ambulance service transporting a patient by a fixed-wing airplane.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-3) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-23, § 2,
passed 6-19-1990; Ord. 2004-135, § 3, passed 6-1-2004)
§ 6-9-4 TRANSFER AND TERM OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No license issued pursuant to this chapter may be transferred by
operation of law or otherwise.
      (2)   The following shall be considered transfers for purposes of this
section:
         (a)   Any change in the business structure of a licensee, including,
but not limited to, changes from or to:
            1.   A sole proprietorship;
            2.   A partnership, including any change in the partners; and
            3.   A corporation, including any change in the shareholders,
whether by operation of law or otherwise.
         (b)   Bankruptcy, an assignment for the benefit of creditors or the
appointment of a receiver; and
         (c)   A sale or transfer of over 10% of the assets of a licensee.
   (B)   A licensee may apply to the health officer for an amendment to the
terms of the license, which request shall be processed in the same manner as an
original application. Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary,
licenses may be suspended, revoked or terminated prior to the expiration date,
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-4) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-990; Ord. 90-23, § 2, passed
6-19-1990)
§ 6-9-5 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Each application for a license under this subchapter shall be
accompanied by an application fee, if any, set by the County Board of
Supervisors, and be made upon forms prescribed by the health officer.
   (B)   Each applicant shall submit the following:
      (1)   The names and addresses of the applicant and the owner of the
ambulance and the business and any interest therein;
      (2)   The applicant’s training and experience in the transportation and
care of patients;
      (3)   The names under which the applicant has engaged, does or proposes
to engage in ambulance service;
      (4)   A description of each ambulance, including the make, model, year of
manufacture, vehicle identification number and current state license number,
the length of time the vehicle has been in use and the color scheme, insignia,
name, monogram and other distinguishing characteristics of the vehicle; a
description of the company’s program for maintenance of the vehicle; and a
description of the vehicle’s radio;
      (5)   Proof that the applicant has obtained all licenses and permits
required by state or local law or regulation for the type of ambulance service
proposed, excluding only a license to provide the service for which application
is made;
      (6)   The names and qualifications of each attendant, driver or
dispatcher employed, or to be employed, in providing ambulance service;
      (7)   Proof that the applicant possesses and maintains currently valid
state highway patrol inspection reports for each vehicle listed in the
application;
      (8)   A description of the company’s training and orientation programs
for attendants, drivers and dispatchers;
      (9)   Evidence of such financial responsibility and insurance coverage as
may be required by the health officer pursuant to regulations adopted in
accordance with this chapter;
      (10)   Identification of the geographical area to be served by the
applicant, if required by the department;
      (11)   As to new applications or transfers as specified in §
6-9-4, a fingerprint receipt for each principal of the applicant, issued by the
County Sheriff-Coroner, indicating that each principal of the applicant has
undergone a complete criminal history check, followed by a report from the
County Sheriff-Coroner showing no conviction of crimes which would be
violations of the provisions of §
6-9-7(D)(2), (D)(3), (D)(4), (D)(5), (D)(6) or (D)(7);
      (12)   A list of all substations or offices where equipment and personnel
are or will be based, including hours of operation;
      (13)   A description of whether the service proposed by the applicant
will include basic life support services or advanced life support service, and,
if so:
         (a)   The number of basic life support service or advanced life
support service units to be deployed on each shift;
         (b)   The emergency response area to receive basic life support
service or advanced life support service; and
         (c)   The provisions, if any, for continuing education of attendants.
      (14)   Such other information as the health officer may require in
regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   Renewal applications shall be submitted in the same form and require
the same materials as original applications, except the requirement of §
6-9-5(B)(11).
(Prior Code, § 6-9-5) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-23, § 2,
passed 6-19-1990)
§ 6-9-6 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS FOR LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of a completed application for a license under this subchapter
and the required fee, if any, the health officer shall make or cause to be made
such investigation as the health officer deems necessary to determine if:
   (A)   The applicant is a responsible and proper person to conduct, operate
or engage in the provision of ambulance services; and
   (B)   The applicant meets the requirements of this chapter and of other
applicable laws, ordinances or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-6) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-23, § 2,
passed 6-19-1990)
§ 6-9-7 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The health officer shall issue a license under this subchapter to an
applicant if the health officer, after completing any investigation required
pursuant to this chapter, determines that all requirements of this chapter have
been met and the license fee, if any, set by the County Board of Supervisors,
has been paid.
   (B)   In the event of denial, the applicant shall be informed in writing of
the reasons therefor.
   (C)   The licensee shall obtain and keep in force, during the term of a
license, comprehensive automobile liability insurance and professional
liability insurance issued by a company authorized to do business in the state,
acceptable to the health officer, insuring the owner against loss by reason of
injury or damage that may result to persons or property from negligent
operation or defective construction of such ambulance, of from violation of
this chapter or any other law of the state or the United States. The
comprehensive automobile liability policy shall be in the sum of not less than
$500,000.00 for combined single limit, bodily injury and property damage. The
professional liability insurance shall be in the sum of not less than
$1,000,000.00 per person and $1,000,000.00 annual aggregate. Workers’
compensation insurance shall be carried covering all employees of the license
holder. Before the health officer shall issue a license, copies of the policies
or certificates evidencing such policies, shall be filed with the health
officer. All policies shall contain a provision requiring a 30-day notice to be
given to the Department prior to cancellation, modification or reduction in
limits. The amount of comprehensive automobile insurance shall be subject to
review and adjustment by the health officer, pursuant to regulations adopted
under this chapter. In the use of helicopters, the equivalent insurance
requirements shall apply.
   (D)   Grounds for denial of a license application shall be:
      (1)   Failure to meet the requirements of any provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Violation by any principal of an applicant of California Penal
Code, § 290;
      (3)   Habitual or excessive use of narcotics or dangerous drugs;
      (4)   Conviction during the preceding seven years of any crime relating
to the use, sale, possession or transportation of narcotics, addictives or
dangerous drugs;
      (5)   Habitual or excessive use of intoxicating beverages;
      (6)   Conviction during the preceding seven years of any crime punishable
as a felony in the state; and
      (7)   Conviction of any crime involving moral turpitude, including fraud
or intentional dishonesty for personal gain.
   (E)   In determining the effect of any criminal acts on the issuance or
denial of a license, the health officer shall consider whether the criminal
acts are related to the activities of an ambulance service and shall evaluate
the rehabilitation of the persons involved. The health officer shall not
consider crimes of which the applicant is, or was, accused but not convicted.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-7) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-23, § 2,
passed 6-19-1990)
§ 6-9-8 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The health officer may suspend or revoke a license issued under this
subchapter for failure by the licensee to comply and maintain compliance with,
or for violation of, any applicable provisions, standards or requirements of
state law or regulation, of this chapter or of any regulations promulgated
under this chapter. Suspension of a license is not a condition precedent to
revocation of a license.
   (B)   (1)   Before suspension or revocation, the health officer shall give
written notice to the licensee.
      (2)   The notice shall:
         (a)   Specify the reasons for which the action is to be taken;
         (b)   Set a hearing for not more than 15 days and not less than seven
days after the date of the notice;
         (c)   Specify the date, time and place of the hearing; and
         (d)   Be served on the licensee either by delivery to its principal
place of business or to its designated agent for service of such notices, if
any.
   (C)   If the licensee, subsequent to service of a suspension or revocation
notice under this section, remedies some or all of the conditions to which the
notice refers, the health officer may rescind a suspension or revocation at any
time.
   (D)   At the hearing, the health officer has the burden of proof and may
present evidence as to why such action should be taken and to answer the
evidence presented by the licensee.
   (E)   The health officer may reduce the period of time for hearing under a
suspension or revocation notice to no less than 24 hours when the health
officer makes written preliminary findings that such action is necessary to
protect the public health, safety and welfare. When, as a result of such an
emergency proceeding, a license is suspended or revoked, the licensee may
request an additional hearing at which the licensee will have the burden of
establishing renewed compliance justifying reinstatement of the license. Such
additional hearing will be commenced within five days of the licensee’s
request. The request for and the scheduling of an additional hearing shall not
stay operation of the suspension or revocation order.
   (F)   Hearings conducted pursuant to this section shall be conducted before
a hearing officer designated by the Department. At the conclusion of the
hearing, the hearing officer shall expeditiously prepare a written summary of
the evidence and proposed findings and conclusions for consideration by the
Health Care Agency Director.
   (G)   The Health Care Agency Director shall issue a written decision within
30 days after conclusion of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-8) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-23, § 2,
passed 6-19-1990)
§ 6-9-9 APPEALS.
   In the event of denial, suspension or revocation of a license under this
subchapter, the applicant or licensee shall have the right to request a hearing
before the County Board of Supervisors, which hearing shall be requested and
conducted in the manner specified in §
5-2-19.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-9) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-23, § 2,
passed 6-19-1990; Ord. 96-92, § 12, passed 8-20-1996)
§ 6-9-10 NOTIFICATION TO HEALTH OFFICER OF CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR INTERRUPTION
OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The licensee shall notify the health officer within 24 hours after any
change in ownership or management of the licensee, or any interruption of
service of more than 24 hours’ duration, or any substantial change in staffing
or equipment.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the term SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE shall be as
defined by regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-10) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-23, § 2,
passed 6-19-1990)
§ 6-9-11 PERSONNEL STANDARDS.
   (A)   A licensee shall only employ personnel performing tasks described in
this chapter who comply with the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Attendants shall be at least 18 years of age and trained and competent
in the proper use of all equipment and shall hold current EMT 1A certification
in compliance with all state laws, rules and regulations. Additionally, each
attendant shall hold a license from the health officer indicating compliance
with this section. Applications for such licenses shall be in a form required
by the health officer and shall be accompanied by the fee, if any, established
therefor. All applicants for licenses as an attendant shall be subject to the
same criminal history review as required for principals of ambulance companies
pursuant to this chapter no less than once every four years. Certificates may
be denied, suspended or revoked in the same form and fashion as that specified
for ambulance service licensees in this chapter. Licenses shall be valid for
two years from the date of issuance or certification as an Emergency Medical
Technician 1A, whichever is less. Renewal of a license shall be in the same
fashion as issuance of a new license.
   (C)   Each licensee shall have at least one dispatcher. Emergency ambulance
service licensees shall have a dispatcher on a 24-hour-per-day basis and shall
adequately train the dispatcher to radio operation and protocols and to the
emergency response area served before the dispatcher begins dispatching
emergency calls. For purposes of this section, adequate training of a
dispatcher shall be that which meets state standards, if any, or county
requirements.
   (D)   Ambulance drivers shall, in addition to the requirements of this
chapter for attendants, maintain an appropriate license issued by the
California Department of Motor Vehicles and, if applicable, the Federal
Aviation Administration.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-11) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-23, § 2,
passed 6-19-1990)
§ 6-9-12 RATES.
   No licensee shall charge more than the maximum basic life support rates
approved by the County Board of Supervisors. No licensee shall charge more than
the maximum advanced life support rates approved by the County Board of
Supervisors or the County Fire Authority.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-12) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-23, § 2,
passed 6-19-1990; Ord. 2004-135, § 4, passed 6-1-2004)
§ 6-9-13 CONTRACTS FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   The County Fire Authority shall administer the competitive
process on behalf of the local EMS agency, for the award of EOA contracts
within the city. The County Fire Authority shall select and shall enter into
contracts with licensees for the provision of ambulance service in response to
emergencies in each EOA, unless the city has provided written notification to
the County Fire Authority of its intention to retain licensee selection and
contracting authority for itself. Such contracts shall provide for one primary
contractor per EOA, with such other backup service by other emergency ambulance
service providers as deemed necessary by the Fire Chief.
      (2)   In awarding these contracts, the County Fire Authority, or city if
it elects to retain licensee selection and contracting authority, shall
consider the comparative value of competing proposals in the same fashion as
would be the case were the county evaluating proposals from prospective service
providers for other governmental activities, including consideration of:
         (a)   The quality of service to be provided;
         (b)   The level of service to be provided;
         (c)   The rates charged for services to be provided; and
         (d)   The cost, if any, to the awarding agency.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall administer the contracts for ambulance service
awarded by the County Fire Authority, or by the city if applicable, under this
section. The Fire Chief shall also prepare and keep current EOA lists
specifying contract providers for each EOA. The Fire Chief shall include on the
list for each EOA the provider which has entered into an ambulance service
agreement with the County Fire Authority, or city if applicable, as the primary
contractor as well as the emergency ambulance service provider(s) who will
provide backup emergency ambulance service for that area.
   (C)   In the event no proposals acceptable to the County Fire Authority, or
to the city if it elects to retain licensee selection and contracting authority
under the provisions of this section, are received for one or more EOAs, the
County Fire Authority, or the city if applicable, shall designate one or more
licensees to provide emergency ambulance services for the EOA. From the date of
such designation until a regular emergency ambulance service agreement is
signed for the affected area(s), provision of emergency ambulance service shall
be an express condition of the license and unreasonable or unjustified refusal
of such calls shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall provide ambulance service in response to, or as
a result of, an emergency, unless that person is a licensee specified in each
instance by a physician or public safety agency. A licensee thus specified by a
physician need not be a contractor selected pursuant to this section. Any
ambulance service operator receiving a request for emergency ambulance service
from other than a public safety agency shall immediately, by telephone, notify
a public safety agency designated by regulation of the request.
      (2)   No licensee responding to an emergency shall transport a patient,
unless:
         (a)   A paramedic is present at the location of the patient;
         (b)   A physician is present at the location of the patient and
directs transportation in the absence of a paramedic; or
         (c)   A safety qualified employee of the County Fire Authority or an
appropriate employee of a public safety agency designated by regulation directs
transportation in the absence of a paramedic.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a physician present at the location of
the patient, a licensee shall transport a patient pursuant to regulations
adopted under §
6-9-14.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-13) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-23, § 2,
passed 6-19-1990; Ord. 2004-135, § 5, passed 6-1-2004)
§ 6-9-14 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   As to all sections of this chapter except §
6-9-13, the health officer shall make such rules and regulations and as may be
necessary to implement this chapter. Prior to adoption, proposed rules and
regulations shall be submitted to the County Emergency Medical Care Committee
for comment.
   (B)   As to §
6-9-13, the Fire Chief shall make such rules and regulations and as may be
necessary to implement this chapter. Prior to adoption, the Fire Chief’s rules
and regulations shall be submitted to the County Emergency Medical Care
Committee for comment.
   (C)   The health officer or the Fire Chief, or their designees, may inspect
the records, facilities, transportation units, equipment and method of
operation of each licensee whenever necessary and, in the case of the health
officer, at least annually.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-14) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-23, § 2,
passed 6-19-1990)
§ 6-9-15 INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   The Department or any user, subscriber, public safety agency or consumer who
believes or has reason to believe that they or another party has been required
to pay an excessive charge for services or has received inadequate services, or
that services provided were not in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, may file a written complaint with the Department setting forth such
allegations. The Department shall notify the ambulance service operator of such
complaint. The ambulance service operator shall file a written response within
15 calendar days after receipt of notification.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-15) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-23, § 2,
passed 6-19-1990)
§ 6-9-16 VARIANCES.
   As to all but §
6-9-13, the health officer may grant variances from the terms of this chapter
if they find such action is necessary to protect the public health, safety or
welfare. As to §
6-9-13, the Fire Chief may grant variances from the terms of this chapter if
they find such action is necessary to protect the public health, safety or
welfare. As to the health officer, such variances may include the issuance of a
temporary license. No variance shall exceed 180 days in duration.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-16) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-23, § 2,
passed 6-19-1990)
§ 6-9-17 VIOLATION OF CHAPTER.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter by an ambulance service operator
shall be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-17) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-23, § 2,
passed 6-19-1990), Rights-of-Way and Vehicles
TITLE 7: HIGHWAYS, RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND VEHICLES
Chapter
   1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   2.   HIGHWAY, FLOOD CONTROL AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES PLANNING
   3.   IMPROVEMENT, CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF STREETS
   4.   TRAFFIC ORDINANCES
   5.   FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE
***** CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Appurtenant Construction
7-1-1   Definitions
7-1-2   Permit required
7-1-3   Reserved
7-1-4   Exemption from deposit and permit fee for public agencies
7-1-5   Hold harmless agreement
7-1-6—7-1-10   Reserved
7-1-11   Application for permit
7-1-12   Authority to require changes in application
7-1-13   Payment of fees
7-1-14   Refund of fees
7-1-15   Recovery of costs in excess of deposit
7-1-16—7-1-20   Reserved
7-1-21   Inspection of residential driveways
7-1-22   Submission of plans
7-1-23   Issuance of permit
7-1-24   Time limit for commencing work; completion of work
7-1-25   Cancellation of permit
7-1-26—7-1-30   Reserved
7-1-31   Relocation of plants and structures
7-1-32   Specification of lines, grades and types of materials
7-1-33   Conformance with plans and city standards; waiving of inspection
7-1-34   Setting of additional stakes
7-1-35   Notification of Director of Public Works prior to commencement of work
7-1-36—7-1-40   Reserved
7-1-41   Safety and warning devices
7-1-42   Notification of Director of Public Works on completion of work
7-1-43   Certificate of acceptance
7-1-44   Removal of material and debris
7-1-45   Violation of terms of permit
7-1-46—7-1-55   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Obstructions
7-1-56   Deposit of clay or mud on street
7-1-57   Deposit of oil or petroleum products on street
7-1-58   Permitting water to run over street
7-1-59—7-1-68   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Signs and Billboards
7-1-69   Permit required for signs encroaching on right-of-way; minimum
standards
7-1-70   Reserved
Subchapter 3.1. Advertising on Parked Vehicles
7-1-71   Purpose of subchapter
7-1-72   Definition
7-1-73   Prohibited acts
7-1-74   Exemptions from subchapter
7-1-75   Violation of subchapter
7-1-76—7-1-89   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Newsrack Regulations Generally
7-1-90   Definitions
7-1-91   Encroachment on roadway, sidewalk or parkway
7-1-92   Installation standards; advertising; maintenance
7-1-93   Identification
7-1-94   Removal
7-1-95   Abandonment
7-1-96—7-1-109   Reserved
Subchapter 5. Contents of Newsracks
7-1-110   Definitions
7-1-111   Prohibited displays
7-1-112—7-1-119   Reserved
Subchapter 6. Bus Passenger Shelters and Benches
7-1-120   Bus shelters and benches prohibited
7-1-121   Definitions
7-1-122   Bus shelters and bus benches allowed pursuant to agreement
7-1-123   Applicability of subchapter
7-1-124   Location, type, numbers and priorities for placement of shelters and
benches
7-1-125   Restrictions on bus shelter advertising
7-1-126   Fees for location of shelters and benches on public right-of-way
7-1-127   Removal and impounding of shelters and benches
7-1-128   Interference with shelters and benches
7-1-129   Enforcement
7-1-130—7-1-134   Reserved
Subchapter 7. Private Streets
7-1-135   Procedure for naming or change of name
7-1-136—7-1-139   Reserved
Subchapter 8. Regulations of Communication Facilities in the Public Rights-of-
Way
7-1-140   Compliance with the city policy regarding permitting requirements and
development standards for communication facilities within the public rights-of-
way
7-1-141   Violations
7-1-142   Conflicting provisions superseded
Subchapter 9. Surety Requirements for Improvements in the Public Right-of-Way
and/or Public Property
7-1-143   Surety
7-1-144   Warranty
7-1-145   Surety agreement
7-1-146   Encroachment and/or license agreement
Cross-reference:
Building regulations, see Title 8
Contents of newsracks, see §§
7-1-110 et seq.
Newsracks generally, see §§
7-1-90 et seq.
Public morals, safety and welfare, see Title 11
Sign code, see §§
8-1-94 et seq.
Stopping, standing and parking of vehicles, see §§
7-4-600 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. APPURTENANT CONSTRUCTION ****
§ 7-1-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY. Any public highway, public street, public way or public place in
the city which has been acquired by the city by purchase, dedication or
condemnation proceedings.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, copartnership, joint adventure, association,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, this state, any county and any
city, including this city, and all departments and bureaus thereof, excepting
the Department of Public Works of the city, or any other group or combination
acting as a unit.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The United States or any department or agency thereof, the
state or any department or agency thereof, or any county, municipal corporation
or public district.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 7-1-2 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to lay, construct or repair any curb,
sidewalk, gutter, driveway, roadway surface, retaining wall or storm drain or
culvert in, over, along, across or through any highway without first obtaining
a permit therefor from the Director of Public Works as provided in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-3 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 7-1-4 EXEMPTION FROM DEPOSIT AND PERMIT FEE FOR PUBLIC AGENCIES.
   (A)   If the United States, this state, any county, this or any other
municipal corporation or any school district or other public agency files with
the Director of Public Works a written guarantee of payment of all costs for
which it may become liable to the city under this subchapter, then no deposit
for costs shall be required from such person.
   (B)   No permit issuance fee shall be required of any public agency entitled
to exemption therefrom pursuant to the California Government Code, § 6103.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-5 HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT.
   On each application for a permit under this subchapter, the applicant shall
sign a statement that they agree to preserve and save harmless the city and
each officer and employee thereof from any liability or responsibility for any
accident, loss or damage to persons or property happening or occurring as a
proximate result of any work undertaken under any permit granted pursuant to
the application.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 7-1-6—7-1-10 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 7-1-11 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   An applicant for a permit under this subchapter shall state in their
application:
   (A)   The location, nature and extent of the work to be performed;
   (B)   The materials to be used; and
   (C)   Such other information, including plans and specifications, as the
Director of Public Works may require.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-12 AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE CHANGES IN APPLICATION.
   The Director of Public Works may require such changes in the application for
a permit under this subchapter respecting the location, dimensions and method
or manner of construction, installation or repair as may reasonably be
necessary for the protection of the highway or the prevention of undue
interference with traffic, or to ensure the safety of persons using the
highway.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-12) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-13 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   An applicant for a permit to construct any work under this subchapter shall
pay fees for processing, engineering and inspection as established by
resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-14 REFUND OF FEES.
   (A)   Effective permit.
      (1)   The engineering and inspection costs provided for in §
7-1-13 shall be presumed to be the actual cost.
      (2)   A refund thereof shall not be made to any applicant, unless:
         (a)   The inspection or engineering fee was erroneously collected, in
which case the entire amount may be returned; or
         (b)   The driveway or culvert is not constructed or installed, in
which event the applicant may apply for a refund of the unused fees less a
charge of $1.50 for any final inspection which may be made. Where a deposit has
been made, the Director of Public Works shall deduct from the deposit the
actual cost to the city of the required engineering and inspection, plus the
cost of overhead, not to exceed 15% of the total cost. If such cost, including
overhead, is less than the deposit, the difference shall be refunded to the
person making the deposit in the same manner as provided by law for the
repayment of trust monies. Nothing in this division (A)(2)(b) shall be
construed as authorizing the repayment of any issuance fee.
   (B)   Cancelled permit. When a permit has been cancelled by the Director of
Public Works, the permittee may obtain a refund of any unused fee paid or
deposited. No part of any issuance fee may be refunded.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-14) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-15 RECOVERY OF COSTS IN EXCESS OF DEPOSIT.
   If the cost to the city as provided in §
7-1-14 exceeds the deposit, the permittee shall, upon demand by the Director of
Public Works, pay the excess to the city. If payment is not made within 15 days
after such demand, the city may recover the amount in any court of competent
jurisdiction. Until such amount is paid, further permits under this subchapter
shall not be issued to such permittee.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-15) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 7-1-16—7-1-20 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 7-1-21 INSPECTION OF RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Inspection by a noncity governmental agency. The Director of Public
Works shall issue, without any inspection fee or deposit therefor, a permit to
construct a residential driveway if the applicant for such permit pays the
issuance fee and submits satisfactory evidence to the Director of Public Works
that the driveway will be inspected by a competent governmental agency other
than an agency of the city, and such governmental agency will furnish a
certificate to the effect that the portion of the driveway installed in the
public right-of-way was inspected and complies with minimum standards required
by the city.
   (B)   City inspection. If an applicant receives a permit pursuant to the
provisions of division (A) above and the governmental agency referred to in
that division (A) fails to make the inspection or fails to file the certificate
there provided for within four months of the issuance of the permit, the
Director of Public Works may themself inspect the driveway, in which case the
applicant shall pay to the Director of Public Works the actual cost of such
inspection.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-21) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-22 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   If, in the opinion of the Director of Public Works, the work proposed to be
done under this subchapter requires the making of plans or the setting of
stakes, or both, the Director of Public Works may require the application to be
accompanied by the necessary plans, which plans shall be prepared by a
competent engineer.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-22) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-23 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   If the applicant complies with every provision of this subchapter and with
all applicable provisions of all other ordinances and statutes, the Director of
Public Works shall issue to the applicant a written permit to perform the work
set forth in the application.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-23) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-24 TIME LIMIT FOR COMMENCING WORK; COMPLETION OF WORK.
   Every permittee under this subchapter shall commence the proposed work
within 60 days after the granting of the permit and thereafter prosecute the
work to completion in a diligent and workmanlike manner.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-24) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-25 CANCELLATION OF PERMIT.
   The Director of Public Works may cancel a permit issued under this
subchapter, unless the work authorized therein is commenced within 60 days of
the issuance of the permit and thereafter, in the opinion of the Director of
Public Works, is diligently prosecuted to completion. Cancellation may be
effected by giving written notice thereof by sending the notice to the
applicant by ordinary mail to the address shown on the application.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-25) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 7-1-26—7-1-30 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 7-1-31 RELOCATION OF PLANTS AND STRUCTURES.
   If so required by the Director of Public Works, a permittee under this
subchapter shall make proper arrangements for and bear the cost of relocating
any structure, public utility, tree or shrub, where such relocation is made
necessary by the proposed work for which a permit is issued. The Director of
Public Works may elect to do the necessary relocation, in which event the
permittee shall deposit with the Director of Public Works a sum of money
estimated by them to be sufficient to pay the cost thereof. After such
relocation, a refund shall be paid to or a deficiency shall be paid by the
permittee as provided in §§
7-1-14 and
7-1-15.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-31) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-32 SPECIFICATION OF LINES, GRADES AND TYPES OF MATERIALS.
   Before a permittee performs any work covered by this subchapter, they shall
obtain from the Director of Public Works the lines and grades thereof. Where
the work proposed to be done consists of or includes the laying or constructing
of a culvert in or upon a highway, the Director of Public Works may specify, in
any permit issued therefor, the size, the type of material and the grade of the
culvert.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-32) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-33 CONFORMANCE WITH PLANS AND CITY STANDARDS; WAIVING OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   A permittee under this subchapter shall perform all work in accordance
with the plans, if plans are made, and specifications referred to in the
permit, and to the satisfaction of and under the supervision of the Director of
Public Works. In addition, all work to be performed in, upon or across highways
shall be in accordance with and conform to the standards established by Title
7, Chapter 2, Subchapter 2.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works may waive inspection if they believe such
inspection is not necessary for the best interests of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-33) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-34 SETTING OF ADDITIONAL STAKES.
   If any stakes set for any work covered by this subchapter are disturbed or
destroyed and it becomes necessary to set additional stakes, the permittee
shall deposit a sum estimated by the Director of Public Works to be sufficient
to pay the cost of setting such additional stakes. The Director of Public Works
shall set the additional stakes. After such setting, a refund shall be paid to
or a deficiency shall be paid by the permittee as provided in §§
7-1-14 and
7-1-15.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-34) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-35 NOTIFICATION OF DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF
WORK.
   Not less than 18 hours before the commencement of any work covered by this
subchapter, the permittee shall apply in writing to the Director of Public
Works for an inspector therefor. In such application, they shall specify the
day and hour when, and the location at which, the work will be commenced.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-35) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 7-1-36—7-1-40 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 7-1-41 SAFETY AND WARNING DEVICES.
   A permittee under this subchapter shall place and maintain adequate warning
signs, lights and devices conforming to the uniform sign chart of the
California Division of Highways and the city’s Manual of Warning Signs, Lights
and Devices, throughout the length of the work and at each end of the project,
until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the Director of Public
Works. The permittee shall take such other precautions as may be necessary for
the protection of the traveling public. The Director of Public Works may, as a
condition of the issuance of a permit, specify additional signs or warning
devices or measures to be used by the permittee, but the failure of the
Director of Public Works to so specify the signs, devices or measures shall not
relieve the permittee of their obligation under this section.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-41) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-42 NOTIFICATION OF DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS ON COMPLETION OF WORK.
   Whenever any permittee under this subchapter has completed any work for
which a permit has been granted, they shall so notify the Director of Public
Works in writing.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-42) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-43 CERTIFICATE OF ACCEPTANCE.
   If the Director of Public Works, by survey or by inspection or by both,
ascertains that the work covered by this subchapter has been completed
according to the requirements of the permit issued therefor and of all of the
provisions of this subchapter, they shall issue, if requested so to do by the
permittee, a certificate of acceptance, which shall contain a statement of the
location, nature and extent of the work performed under the permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-43) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-44 REMOVAL OF MATERIAL AND DEBRIS.
   A permittee under this subchapter shall remove all material and debris:
   (A)   Where new work is covered with earth, in accordance with the terms of
the specifications attached to the permit; and
   (B)   In all other cases, within three days.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-44) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-45 VIOLATION OF TERMS OF PERMIT.
   Every person who performs any work covered by this subchapter in any amount
greater than or in any way different from or contrary to the terms of any
permit issued therefor is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-45) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 7-1-46—7-1-55 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. OBSTRUCTIONS ****
§ 7-1-56 DEPOSIT OF CLAY OR MUD ON STREET.
   (A)   Creation of hazard. It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
track or otherwise deposit clay or mud debris of any sort in any manner on the
paved or traveled surface of any city road or public highway or street, which
creates a hazard to traffic thereon.
   (B)   Removal. The Director of Public Works has the right to remove the clay
or mud debris, and thereupon submit a statement of the cost of such removal to
such person or their employer, employee or agent, and such person, employer,
employee or agent shall pay such cost to the city.
   (C)   Action to recover cost. The city may bring an action against such
person or their employer, employee or agent to recover the cost of such removal
by the Director of Public Works and for costs of the suit.
   (D)   Injunction. The city may bring an action to enjoin any continued such
placing, tracking or otherwise depositing by such a person or their employer,
employee or agent, and for costs of the suit.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-56) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-57 DEPOSIT OF OIL OR PETROLEUM PRODUCTS ON STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, put, turn or deposit into or
upon any public highway, street or alley within the city any oil or liquid of
petroleum content, or to permit any such oil or liquid of petroleum content to
escape from any property owned or controlled by such person so as to flow into
or upon any such public highway, street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-57) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Oil code, see §§
8-8-1 et seq.
§ 7-1-58 PERMITTING WATER TO RUN OVER STREET.
   It shall be and is hereby declared unlawful for any person to run or to
allow to run upon any highway or street or right-of-way thereof any irrigation,
waste or other water; provided that such water may be allowed to run upon or in
any drain ditch along the side of such highway or street or right-of-way
thereof if the water does not fill or overflow such ditch or run upon or
percolate under the base of the paved or traveled portion of such highway or
street.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-58) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 7-1-59—7-1-68 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS ****
§ 7-1-69 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR SIGNS ENCROACHING ON RIGHT-OF-WAY; MINIMUM
STANDARDS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, construct, place or maintain any signboard,
billboard, sign or advertisement in, over or on any public highway or street of
the city, unless a permit to do so has been obtained in writing from the
Director of Public Works, on such conditions as the Director of Public Works
may determine to ensure the safety of persons traveling upon such highway or
street, on the following minimum standards.
      (1)   Single-faced signs. Single-faced signs placed flat against and
supported by a building shall not extend over the right-of way if less than
eight feet above the right-of-way grade; at a height of eight feet or more,
such a sign shall not overhang the right-of-way more than 12 inches.
      (2)   Double-faced signs. Double-faced signs supported by a building
shall not extend further over the right-of-way than allowed under the following
ratio:
 
For an overhang up to: The sign must be above the right-of-way:
6 inches               7 feet
12 inches              8 feet
24 inches              10 feet
36 inches              12 feet
48 inches              14 feet
60 inches              16 feet
 
      (3)   Extension limit. In no event shall any sign extend further than the
face of any curb in front of any building.
   (B)   The permit described in this section is not in lieu of a building
permit or any other permit required by any other applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-69) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-70 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3.1. ADVERTISING ON PARKED VEHICLES ****
§ 7-1-71 PURPOSE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The purpose of this subchapter regulating the use of parked vehicles for the
primary purpose of advertising is to promote traffic safety; to maximize the
availability of city, county and state highway parking for use by the general
public; and to promote the aesthetic appearance of city, county and state
streets and highways and adjacent properties.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-71) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-28, § 1,
passed 9-18-1990)
§ 7-1-72 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Unless
the context otherwise requires or a different definition is specified, all
terms used in this subchapter shall have the meaning set forth in the
California Vehicle Code.
   ADVERTISING SIGNS. Includes, but is not limited to, any kind of display,
printing, writing or banner for the primary purpose of advertising the sale,
purchase or promotion of a product, business or service.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-72) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-28, § 1,
passed 9-18-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 7-1-73 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall park any vehicle on a public or private street, a parking
lot or any public property or off-street parking facility with any advertising
sign painted on, affixed to or resting on the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-73) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-28, § 1,
passed 9-18-1990)
§ 7-1-74 EXEMPTIONS FROM SUBCHAPTER.
   The following shall be exempted from this subchapter:
   (A)   Vehicles displaying signs, decals or other inscriptions mandated or
expressly authorized by statute or city ordinances, but only to the extent such
signs, decals or other inscriptions are expressly authorized or mandated;
   (B)   Signs permanently affixed to commercial vehicles while engaged in the
ordinary business for which they are registered or maintained; provided,
however, that a commercial vehicle parked in the same space for more than four
hours shall be presumed not engaged in its ordinary business;
   (C)   Taxicabs while engaged in the ordinary course of business;
   (D)   Vehicles owned by public agencies;
   (E)   Vehicles operated by entities subject to the jurisdiction of the
California Public Utilities Commission; and
   (F)   Vehicles parked within 300 feet of the residence of the registered
owner of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-74) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-28, § 1,
passed 9-18-1990)
§ 7-1-75 VIOLATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Any person violating this subchapter shall be guilty of an infraction.
   (B)   Any person violating this subchapter more than one time in a 12-month
period shall be guilty of a misdemeanor for the second and subsequent
violations.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-75) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-28, § 1,
passed 9-18-1990)
§§ 7-1-76—7-1-89 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. NEWSRACK REGULATIONS GENERALLY ****
§ 7-1-90 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NEWSRACK. Any self-service or coin-operated box, container, storage unit or
other dispenser installed, used or maintained for the display and sale of
newspapers or news periodicals.
   PARKWAY. The area between the sidewalks and the curb of any street, and
where there is no sidewalk that area between the edge of the roadway and the
property line adjacent thereto. The term PARKWAY also includes any area within
a roadway which is not open to vehicular travel.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. Any surface provided for the exclusive use of pedestrians.
   STREET. All that area dedicated to public use for public street purposes,
and includes, but is not limited to, roadways, parkways, alleys and sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-90) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 7-1-91 ENCROACHMENT ON ROADWAY, SIDEWALK OR PARKWAY.
   (A)   No person shall install, use or maintain any newsrack or other
structure which projects onto, into or over any part of the roadway of any
public street, or which rests, wholly or in part, upon, along or over any
portion of the roadway of any public street.
   (B)   No person shall install, use or maintain any newsrack which, in whole
or in part, rests upon, in or over any public sidewalk or parkway, when such
installation, use or maintenance endangers the safety of persons or property,
or when such site or location is used for public use, or when such newsrack
unreasonably interferes with or impedes the flow of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic, including any legally parked or stopped vehicle, the ingress into or
egress from any residence or place of business or the use of poles, posts,
traffic signs or signals, hydrants, mailboxes or other objects permitted at or
near the location, or when such newsrack interferes with the cleaning of any
sidewalk by the use of mechanical sidewalk cleaning machinery.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-91) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-92 INSTALLATION STANDARDS; ADVERTISING; MAINTENANCE.
   Any newsrack which in whole or in part rests upon, in or over any public
sidewalk or parkway shall comply with the following standards.
   (A)   No newsrack shall exceed five feet in height, 30 inches in width or
two feet in thickness.
   (B)   Newsracks shall only be placed near a curb or adjacent to the wall of
a building. Newsracks placed near the curb shall be placed no less than 18
inches and no more than 24 inches from the edge of the curb. Newsracks placed
adjacent to the wall of a building shall be placed parallel to such wall and
not more than six inches from the wall. No newsrack shall be placed or
maintained on the sidewalk or parkway opposite a newsstand or another newsrack.
   (C)   No newsrack shall be chained, bolted or otherwise attached to any
property not owned by the owner of the newsrack, or to any permanently fixed
object.
   (D)   Newsracks may be chained or otherwise attached to one another;
however, no more than three newsracks may be joined together in this manner,
and a space of no less than 18 inches shall separate each group of three
newsracks so attached.
   (E)   No newsrack or group of attached newsracks allowed under division (D)
above shall weigh, in aggregate, in excess of 125 pounds when empty.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
7-1-91(B), no newsrack shall be placed, installed, used or maintained:
      (1)   Within three feet of any marked crosswalk;
      (2)   Within 15 feet of the curb return of any unmarked crosswalk;
      (3)   Within three feet of any fire hydrant, fire call box, police call
box or other emergency facility;
      (4)   Within three feet of any driveway;
      (5)   Within three feet ahead of and 15 feet to the rear of any sign
marking a designated bus stop;
      (6)   Within three feet of any bus bench;
      (7)   At any location whereby the clear space for the passage of
pedestrians is reduced to less than six feet; and
      (8)   Within three feet of any area improved with lawn, flowers, shrubs
or trees, or within three feet of any display window of any building abutting
the sidewalk or parkway or in such manner as to impede or interfere with the
reasonable use of such window for display purposes.
   (G)   No newsrack shall be used for advertising signs or publicity purposes
other than that dealing with the display, sale or purchase of the newspaper or
news periodical sold therein.
   (H)   Each newsrack shall be maintained in a clean, neat and attractive
condition and in good repair at all times.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-92) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-93 IDENTIFICATION.
   Within 30 days after this subchapter becomes effective, every person who
places or maintains a newsrack on the streets of the city shall have their
name, address and telephone number affixed thereto in a place where such
information may be easily seen.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-93) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-94 REMOVAL.
   (A)   Any newsrack installed, used or maintained in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter may be summarily removed and stored in any
convenient place by the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall, prior to
removal, take reasonable steps to notify the owner thereof. Upon failure of the
owner, following notice, to claim such newsrack and pay the expenses of removal
and storage within 30 days after such removal, such newsrack shall be deemed to
be unclaimed property in possession of the Police Department and may be
disposed of pursuant to law.
   (B)   In the case of violations of this subchapter relative to restrictions
upon attachment of newsracks to property other than that owned by the owner of
the newsrack, to fixed objects or to each other, and upon location of
newsracks, the Chief of Police may, as an alternative to removal under division
(A) above, remove such attachment or move such racks in order to restore them
to a legal condition.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-94) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-95 ABANDONMENT.
   If any newsrack installed pursuant to this subchapter is not serviced with
the publication it is designed to disseminate for a period of over seven days,
the city reserves the right to remove the newsrack pursuant to the procedure
set out in §
7-1-94. For purposes of this section, abandonment shall include, but is not
limited to, circumstances where no publication is in the rack for a period of
over seven days.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-95) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 7-1-96—7-1-109 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 5. CONTENTS OF NEWSRACKS ****
§ 7-1-110 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NEWSRACK. Any self-service or coin-operated box, container, storage unit or
other dispenser installed, used or maintained for the display and sale of
newspapers or news periodicals.
   PARKWAY. The area between the sidewalk and the curb of any street, and where
there is no sidewalk, that area between the edge of the roadway and the
property line adjacent thereto. The term PARKWAY also includes any area within
a roadway which is not open to vehicular travel.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. Any surface provided for the exclusive use of pedestrians.
   STREET. All that area dedicated to public use for public street purposes,
and includes, but is not limited to, roadways, parkways, alleys and sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-110) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 7-1-111 PROHIBITED DISPLAYS.
   No person shall sell, offer for sale or keep or maintain any newspaper or
news periodical in any newsrack on any sidewalk in such manner as to expose to
the public view any photograph, cartoon or drawing contained within such
publication displaying any of the following:
   (A)   The genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft, perineum, anal region
or pubic hair region of any person other than a child under the age of puberty;
or
   (B)   Any portion of the breast, at or below the areola thereof, of any
female person, other than a child under the age of puberty.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-111) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 7-1-112—7-1-119 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 6. BUS PASSENGER SHELTERS AND BENCHES ****
§ 7-1-120 BUS SHELTERS AND BENCHES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall erect, place, construct or maintain a bus shelter or a
bus bench on any highway in the city. No encroachment permit, or similar type
of permit, shall be issued which allows the erection, placement, construction
or maintenance of any bus shelter or bus bench on any highway in the city.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything in this subchapter to the contrary, the city
or the City Community Services District may erect, place, construct and
maintain on any highway in the city bus shelters or bus benches which do not
have commercial advertising.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-120) (Ord. 93-67, § 2, passed 9-7-1993)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 93-67, § 2, adopted 9-7-1993, amended former Subchapter 6, §§ 7-1-120
through 7-1-131, relative to bus passenger shelters and benches, in its
entirety to read as herein set out. The provisions of former Subchapter 6
derived from Ord. 90-11, § 6, adopted 3-6-1990.
§ 7-1-121 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUS BENCH or BENCH. A seat located upon a highway for the comfort,
convenience and accommodation of passersby or persons awaiting transportation.
   BUS SHELTER or SHELTER. A covered waiting area located upon a highway, often
semi-enclosed, with a bench, that provides protection from sun, wind and rain
for passersby or persons awaiting transportation.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works, and includes those employees of the
Public Works Department authorized to act for the Director.
   ENCROACHMENT PERMIT or PERMIT. Prescribed written approval for placement of
shelters and benches on a highway. MASTER PERMIT is an annual permit form used
for setting forth all requirements and conditions for approval. PERMIT RIDER is
that form used for approval of each shelter or bench location subject to
conditions of master permit.
   HIGHWAY. All or any part of the entire width of right-of-way of any highway
located in the city, whether or not such entire area is actually used for
highway purposes. (The term HIGHWAY, as used in this definition, is more
specifically defined in §
7-1-1.)
   PERSON. Includes, but is not limited to, individuals, partnerships,
corporations and associations.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-121) (Ord. 93-67, § 2, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 7-1-122 BUS SHELTERS AND BUS BENCHES ALLOWED PURSUANT TO AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything in this subchapter to the contrary, bus
shelters, including bus shelters with advertising, and bus benches may be
erected, placed, constructed and maintained on any highway in the city when
said bus shelters or bus benches have been erected, placed, constructed or
maintained pursuant to a written agreement between the owner of said bus
shelters and bus benches and the city.
   (B)   Any such agreement shall include, but not be limited to, the
following: the authorized number of bus shelters and bus benches, the location
of bus shelters, fees to be paid to city by the owner for the bus shelters, the
design of bus shelters and bus benches, maintenance of bus shelters and
benches, allowance of advertising on bus shelters, relocation or removal of bus
shelters, surety and liability insurance requirement for the bus shelters.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-122) (Ord. 93-67, § 2, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 7-1-123 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter are applicable to all areas included in
the city, including all of the areas that are subject to regulations in planned
community or specific plan texts; and to the extent that there are any
conflicts between the regulations contained in any planned community or
specific plan texts and the provisions of this subchapter, the provisions of
this subchapter shall supersede the provisions in the planned community or
specific plan text.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-123) (Ord. 93-67, § 2, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 7-1-124 LOCATION, TYPE, NUMBERS AND PRIORITIES FOR PLACEMENT OF SHELTERS AND
BENCHES.
   (A)   Shelters and/or benches shall be located only at approved public
transportation stops, including school bus stops.
   (B)   Shelters and/or benches shall be installed only at locations where a
curb separates the travelway from the sidewalk or parkway. Shelters and/or
benches shall be set back from the face of curb a distance not less than 18
inches and such that an unobstructed minimum pedestrian travelway of four feet
will be provided.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-124) (Ord. 93-67, § 2, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 7-1-125 RESTRICTIONS ON BUS SHELTER ADVERTISING.
   When bus shelters with advertising are allowed by the provisions of this
subchapter, such shelters shall only be used for advertising material and
public service announcements. There shall be no advertising which promotes or
illustrates a tobacco product or alcoholic beverage product. There shall be no
advertising which depicts any act of immoral, violent or debasing nature. There
shall be no advertising that uses words, phrases, symbols or characters that
resemble traffic signals, such as the words “Stop”, “Drive-In” or “Danger”, or
any other word, phrase, symbol or character which might interfere with, mislead
or direct vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-125) (Ord. 93-67, § 2, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 7-1-126 FEES FOR LOCATION OF SHELTERS AND BENCHES ON PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   (1)   The owner or person responsible for the erection, placement,
construction and maintenance of any bus shelter or bench that is erected,
placed, constructed or maintained on any highway in the city shall pay fees for
each such bus shelter or bus bench.
      (2)   The amount of said fees shall be established by either or both of
the following:
         (a)   By a written agreement between the owner and the city pursuant
to §
7-1-122; and
         (b)   By the adoption of a fee schedule by the City Council.
   (B)   As to bus shelters or bus benches that were erected, placed,
constructed and/or maintained prior to the amendment of this subchapter in
August 1993, the owner or person responsible for the erection, placement,
construction and maintenance of any such bus shelter and/or bus bench shall be
responsible for paying fees for each bus shelter or bus bench for the time that
said shelter or bench was located on city highways, and that obligation to pay
fees shall remain in existence even after the shelter or bench is removed.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-126) (Ord. 93-67, § 2, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 7-1-127 REMOVAL AND IMPOUNDING OF SHELTERS AND BENCHES.
   Upon the expiration or revocation of any permit rider, the permittee shall
forthwith remove such shelter or bench from the highway. The Director may give
the permittee ten days’ notice to remove the shelter or bench and upon their
failure to do so may remove and store the shelter or bench pending recovery
thereof by the permittee, or its sale, destruction or other disposition, as
hereinafter provided. The Director shall store the shelter or bench for at
least 30 days after its removal during which time the permittee may recover the
shelter or bench by paying the city for the cost of such removal and storage at
the monthly rates established by city policy or resolution of the City Council.
At the expiration of said 30-day period, the Director shall salvage such
structure for public use on public property, or they may have it destroyed. All
of the foregoing shall be at the sole risk of the permittee and shall be in
addition to any other remedy which the city may have by law.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-127) (Ord. 93-67, § 2, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 7-1-128 INTERFERENCE WITH SHELTERS AND BENCHES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, with the exception of an
authorized city official, or the permittee or their agent, to tamper with or
move any shelter and/or bench lawfully placed upon a highway pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, deface or commit acts
of vandalism upon any shelter and/or bench lawfully placed upon a highway,
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-128) (Ord. 93-67, § 2, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 7-1-129 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Director shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-129) (Ord. 93-67, § 2, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 7-1-130—7-1-134 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 7. PRIVATE STREETS ****
§ 7-1-135 PROCEDURE FOR NAMING OR CHANGE OF NAME.
   Whenever the City Council finds that a name should be adopted or that the
existing name of any private street should be changed, the City Council shall
hold a public hearing on the proposed name for or the change of name of such
street. Notice of such hearing shall be given by posting notice in at least
three public places along the street proposed to be affected, with such posting
to be complete at least ten days before the day set for the hearing. At the
time set for the hearing or at any time to which the hearing may be continued,
the City Council shall hear and consider proposals to adopt a name for or
change the name of the street mentioned in the notice and objections to such
proposal. At or after the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council may adopt
a name for or change the name of such street, and, upon the adoption or change
thereof, shall make an order and file the order with the City Council
officially designating the name for such street. Thereafter, such street shall
be known by the name so designated.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-135) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-1-136—7-1-139 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 8. REGULATIONS OF COMMUNICATION FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC
RIGHTS-OF-WAY ****
§ 7-1-140 COMPLIANCE WITH THE CITY POLICY REGARDING PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR COMMUNICATION FACILITIES WITHIN THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-
WAY.
   Notwithstanding any provision of the municipal code to the contrary, all
communication facilities that qualify as “small wireless facilities” under 47
C.F.R. § 1.6002(1), as may be amended or superseded, that are proposed to be
located within the city, including any public rights-of-way, are subject to the
requirements of the “Policy Regarding Permitting Requirements and Development
Standards for Communication Facilities Within the Public Rights-Of-Way”, as
adopted by City Council resolution and amended from time to time, and all such
communication facilities must comply with that policy.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-140) (Ord. 2022-218, § 2, passed 8-2-2022)
§ 7-1-141 VIOLATIONS.
   Failure to comply with the policy regarding permitting requirements and
development standards for communication facilities within the public rights-of-
way constitutes a violation of this subchapter and this code. Any violation
shall be and hereby is declared a public nuisance and may be subject to summary
abatement and citations as set forth the municipal code, remedies provided
under the California Code of Civil Procedure, § 731; the California Government
Code, § 38773; and/or any other remedy available to the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-141) (Ord. 2022-218, § 2, passed 8-2-2022)
§ 7-1-142 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS SUPERSEDED.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall govern and supersede any conflicting
provisions of the municipal code with respect to the permitting and regulation
of such communication facilities within the city, including communication
facilities in the public rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-142) (Ord. 2022-218, § 2, passed 8-2-2022)
**** SUBCHAPTER 9. SURETY REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-
WAY AND/OR PUBLIC PROPERTY ****
§ 7-1-143 SURETY.
   Any improvement within a public right-of-way or public property is subject
to a surety requirement to guarantee the performance as well as the labor and
material cost of the improvement(s) if the City Engineer determines that the
total cost of the project, including labor and materials, exceeds $25,000.00 in
value, or where the City Engineer determines that the proposed work poses a
hazard to public safety, adjoining property or city infrastructure if left
incomplete. The amount of the surety shall be 100% of the total estimated cost
of performance and an additional 100% of the total estimated cost of labor,
materials and equipment. The surety may be in the form of a cash deposit,
letter of credit, bond or other security acceptable to the City Engineer and
City Attorney as outlined below:
   (A)   A bond or bonds by one or more duly authorized corporate sureties in
the form prescribed by the Subdivision Map Act (California Government Code, §§
66410 et seq.);
   (B)   A deposit, either with the city or a responsible escrow agent or trust
company selected by the city, of cash or negotiable bonds of the kind approved
for securing deposits of its public monies;
   (C)   An irrevocable instrument of credit or letter of credit from an agency
of the state, federal or local government when any agency of the state, federal
or local government provides at least 20% of the financing for the portion of
the act or agreement requiring security, or from one or more responsible
financial institutions regulated by federal or state government and pledging
that the funds are on deposit and guaranteed for payment on demand by the city;
   (D)   A lien upon the property to be subdivided, created by contract between
the owner of the property and the city in a form approved by the City Attorney,
when the city finds that it is not in the public interest to require
installation of the required improvement sooner than two years after the
recordation of the map; and
   (E)   Any other form of security, including security interests in real
property, which the Public Works Director shall determine to be acceptable.
§ 7-1-144 WARRANTY.
   Upon completion and acceptance of work in the public right-of-way or public
property, the applicant shall provide a warranty to extend one year from the
date of acceptance. Said warranty shall be no less than 25% of the initial
surety and shall cover defects in materials, workmanship and performance and be
in the form of the initial surety or other form as approved by the City
Attorney and City Engineer.
§ 7-1-145 SURETY AGREEMENT.
   Any applicant performing work or installing improvements within the public
right-of-way or public property that is subject to a surety shall enter into a
surety agreement in a form approved by the City Attorney to guarantee faithful
performance of the work. The agreement shall outline the terms and conditions
of the surety as well as specifics regarding the warranty period.
§ 7-1-146 ENCROACHMENT AND/OR LICENSE AGREEMENT.
   At the discretion of the City Engineer, applicants performing work or
installing improvements within the public right-of-way or public property shall
enter into and record an encroachment or license agreement in a form approved
by the City Attorney prior to commencing the work. At a minimum, the agreement
shall include indemnification of the city and long-term maintenance
responsibilities for the improvements.
***** CHAPTER 2: HIGHWAY, FLOOD CONTROL AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES PLANNING
*****
Section
Subchapter 1. City Roads
7-2-1   City roads defined
7-2-2—7-2-11   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Standard Plans and Specifications
7-2-12   Adoption of plans and specifications
7-2-13   Establishment of plans and specifications by Community Development
Department
7-2-14   Deviation from standard plans and specifications
Cross-reference:
Subdivision code, see §§
9-1-200 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. CITY ROADS ****
§ 7-2-1 CITY ROADS DEFINED.
   All public roads and highways within the city which have been acquired by
the city either by purchase, dedication or condemnation proceedings are hereby
declared to be city roads, and all roads and highways that shall hereafter be
acquired by either purchase, dedication or condemnation proceedings shall be
and remain city roads.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 7-2-2—7-2-11 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. STANDARD PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS ****
§ 7-2-12 ADOPTION OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The documents listed in this section, specific versions of which
are adopted by resolution of the City Council, except such portions that are
deleted, modified or amended by such resolution, are hereby adopted as the
standard plans and specifications for the construction, improvement and repair
of highways, streets, bridges and flood control and recreational facilities.
      (2)   At least one copy of these documents shall be on file in the office
of the City Clerk for examination:
         (a)   Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction, the most
recent edition, published by Building News, Inc;
         (b)   The following portions of Standard Specifications, Department of
Transportation, State of California, the most recent edition:
            1.   Signals and lighting;
            2.   Pavement markers; and
            3.   Bridges.
         (c)   The portion of Standard Plans, Department of Transportation,
State of California, the most recent edition, covering signs, signals and
lighting and that portion covering bridges;
      (d)   California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices, Department of
Transportation, State of California, the most recent edition; and
      (e)   City of Laguna Niguel Traffic Manual.
      (f)   Orange County Public Works Standard Plans, the most recent edition.
   (B)   The specific sections of the documents listed in this section that are
included or excluded shall be specified in the resolution.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-12) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2020-204, § 5,
passed 3-3-2020)
§ 7-2-13 ESTABLISHMENT OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS BY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT.
   Standard plans for the construction, improvement and maintenance of
highways, streets, bridges, flood control, landscaping, grading, small drainage
structures and irrigation and recreational facilities and for the protection,
supervision, management, control or use of such facilities shall from time to
time be submitted by the Director of Community Development and shall, upon
approval and adoption by resolution, be enforced by them, and complied with and
adhered to, except as provided by §
7-2-14, by developers, builders, contractors, subcontractors, agents and all
others engaged in such construction, improvement or maintenance. Copies of the
standard plans shall be available for inspection at the office of the Director
of Community Development.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-13) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-2-14 DEVIATION FROM STANDARD PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   In any case where strict adherence to the Community Development Department
standard plans and specifications enumerated in §
7-2-13 would be impractical or unreasonable, the Director of Community
Development, or their designee, may grant such modification or deviation
therefrom as will, in accord with good engineering practice and the public
health and safety, conform to a plan that will, under the circumstances in such
case, be practical and reasonable.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-14) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
***** CHAPTER 3: IMPROVEMENT, CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF STREETS *****
Section
Subchapter 1. General Provisions
7-3-1—7-3-15   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Reserved
7-3-16—7-3-26   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Excavation, Filling and Obstruction of Highways
7-3-27   Definitions
7-3-28   Permit required
7-3-29   Time of filing of application for permit
7-3-30   Form and contents of application for permit
7-3-31   Submission of plat
7-3-32—7-3-35   Reserved
7-3-36   Street moratoriums
7-3-37   Submission of proof of right to use highway
7-3-38   Authority to require changes in application
7-3-39   Right of city to do resurfacing
7-3-40   Reserved
7-3-41   Fees
7-3-42—7-3-46   Reserved
7-3-47   Deposit or surety bond for costs of resurfacing
7-3-48   General deposit
7-3-49   Computation of costs
7-3-50   Exemption from deposit and fee for public agencies
7-3-51   Issuance of permit
7-3-52—7-3-56   Reserved
7-3-57   Conditions of permit
7-3-58   Compliance with terms of permit
7-3-59   Filling of excavation or removal of obstruction on completion or work
7-3-60   Resurfacing specifications
7-3-61   Payment of costs of resurfacing when work done by city
7-3-62—7-3-66   Reserved
7-3-67   Payment of costs of further repairs
7-3-68   Trafficway to be kept open
7-3-69   Depth of pipes and conduits
7-3-70   Backfilling and cleanup
7-3-71   Deductions from deposit; refund of deposit
7-3-72—7-3-76   Reserved
7-3-77   Payment of costs in excess of deposit
7-3-78   Failure to pay costs
7-3-79   Emergency work
7-3-80   Violation of subchapter
7-3-81—7-3-90   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Protection During Construction
7-3-91   Travel over newly made pavement and markings prohibited
7-3-92   Closing of streets; barriers and warning devices
Cross-reference:
Removal and resurfacing of street pavement and surfaces, see §
8-4-396
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§§ 7-3-1—7-3-15 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. RESERVED ****
§§ 7-3-16—7-3-26 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. EXCAVATION, FILLING AND OBSTRUCTION OF HIGHWAYS ****
§ 7-3-27 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY. Any public highway, public street, public way or public place in
the city which has been acquired by the city by purchase, dedication or
condemnation proceedings.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, copartnership, joint adventure, association,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, this state, any county and any
city, including this city, and all departments and bureaus thereof, except the
Department of Public Works of the city, or any other group or combination
acting as a unit.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The United States or any department or agency thereof; the
state or any department or agency thereof; or any county, municipal corporation
or public district.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-27) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 7-3-28 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A person who digs up, plows up, removes or breaks the earth, soil, stone,
pavement or other surface of or otherwise injures any highway or makes or
causes to be made any excavation, or constructs, places upon, maintains or
leaves any material or any obstruction or impediment to travel in or upon a
highway or installs or maintains or causes to be installed or maintained any
tank, pipe, conduit, duct, tunnel or any other installation of any nature
across, upon, in or under any highway, unless they shall have first obtained a
permit so to do, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-28) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-29 TIME OF FILING OF APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Applications for permits under this subchapter shall be filed not less than
48 hours before the work is proposed to be done.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-29) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-30 FORM AND CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Applications for permits required by this subchapter shall be filed
with the Director of Public Works upon printed forms to be prescribed and
supplied by them.
   (B)   The application shall be signed by the applicant and shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The location, purpose, extent and nature of the proposed
excavation, fill or obstruction;
      (3)   The time during which it is estimated that the excavation, fill or
obstruction will exist;
      (4)   That the applicant agrees to indemnify, defend and save the city
and its authorized agents, officers, representatives and employees harmless
from and against any and all penalties, liabilities or annoyances or loss
resulting from claims or court action and arising out of any accident, loss or
damage to persons or property happening or occurring as a proximate result of
any work undertaken under the permit granted pursuant to the application;
      (5)   That the applicant agrees that, if any tank, pipe, conduit, duct,
tunnel or other installation of any nature or kind placed in the excavation,
fill or obstruction for which the permit is issued shall, at any time in the
future, interfere with the use, repair, improvement, widening or change of
grade of the highway, the applicant or their successors or assigns, within ten
days after the receipt of a written notice from the Director of Public Works to
do so, will, at their own expense, either remove such tank, pipe, conduit,
duct, tunnel or other installation, or, subject to the approval of the Director
of Public Works, relocate it to a site which may be designated by the Director
of Public Works; and
      (6)   Any additional information which the Director of Public Works may
deem necessary for the proper disposition of the application.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-30) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-31 SUBMISSION OF PLAT.
   The application for a permit under this subchapter shall be accompanied by a
plat showing the location, dimension and nature of the proposed excavation,
obstruction or fill, and any other details which the Director of Public Works
may require.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-31) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 7-3-32—7-3-35 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 7-3-36 STREET MORATORIUMS.
   (A)   Excavation moratorium for the preservation of newly constructed,
reconstructed, resurfaced, surface sealed streets or any treatment that adds to
the structural capacity or life of the pavement.
   (B)   Street cuts, grinding or opening of a public street that has been
newly paved, improved, treated or resurfaced for a period identified by the
City Engineer may only be permitted upon a determination by the City Engineer
that such work is necessary. If a street designated by the City Engineer is cut
for any reason, the required asphalt repairs shall be completed in accordance
with the standards specified by the City Engineer, or their designee. In most
cases, the street will need to be entirely resurfaced with a minimum of two-
inch overlay from curb-to-curb and may also include extending the resurfaced
area parallel to the street as deemed necessary by the City Engineer based on
the scope and location of the work.
   (C)   The City Engineer may, in their discretion, require repair and/or
resurfacing activities, allow for an in-lieu payment to cover repair or
resurfacing work or adjust resurfacing and/or repair requirements if deemed
necessary to protect public safety, maintain street integrity or ensure
compliance with applicable standards. The City Engineer, or their designee(s),
may impose additional conditions on a permit as necessary to safeguard public
safety, ensure compliance with applicable standards or protect city
infrastructure.
§ 7-3-37 SUBMISSION OF PROOF OF RIGHT TO USE HIGHWAY.
   If the applicant for a permit under this subchapter is other than the owner
of the underlying fee, each such applicant for a permit shall submit to the
Director of Public Works satisfactory proof of the applicant’s right to use the
highway for the purposes set forth in the application.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-37) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-38 AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE CHANGES IN APPLICATION.
   The Director of Public Works may require such changes in the application for
a permit under this subchapter respecting the location, dimensions, character
or number of the proposed excavations, fills or obstructions as, in their
opinion, may be necessary for the protection of the highway or the prevention
of undue interference with traffic, or to ensure the safety of persons using
the highway.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-38) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-39 RIGHT OF CITY TO DO RESURFACING.
   The Director of Public Works may, either at the time of the issuance of a
permit or at any time thereafter, elect to do the resurfacing or repair of any
highway surface removed or damaged by the proposed excavation or obstruction
pursuant to a permit issued under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-39) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-40 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 7-3-41 FEES.
   An applicant for a permit for improvement, construction and repair under
this subchapter shall pay fees for processing, engineering and inspection as
established by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-41) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 7-3-42—7-3-46 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 7-3-47 DEPOSIT OR SURETY BOND FOR COSTS OF RESURFACING.
   (A)   Unless the Director of Public Works shall have authorized the
applicant to perform the resurfacing or repair of the surface of any highway
which may be removed in part or damaged by the proposed excavation, fill or
obstruction, each applicant for a permit under this subchapter shall, in
addition to the issuance fee, deposit with the Director of Public Works the
estimated cost of resurfacing or repairing the surface of the highway which may
be damaged or destroyed. The estimated cost shall be determined by the Director
of Public Works based on the total projected costs of providing the resurfacing
or repair services. The City Council may from time to time change and revise
the method of determining the estimated cost.
   (B)   In cases where the applicant is granted authority to make the repairs
required under this subchapter, the Director of Public Works may, in order to
ensure the completion of the repairs in a satisfactory manner, require the
applicant to furnish a surety bond. Such bond shall be executed by a surety
company authorized to transact business in the state and shall be in an amount
equal to twice the estimated cost of performing the work authorized; provided,
however, that the minimum amount of the bond shall not be less than $1,000.00,
and the minimum period shall not be less than one year. The condition of the
bond shall be that the applicant will perform the work authorized by any permit
issued pursuant to this subchapter in a good and workmanlike manner and to the
satisfaction of the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-47) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-48 GENERAL DEPOSIT.
   In lieu of making the special deposit required by §
7-3-47, the applicant for a permit under this subchapter may make and maintain
with the Director of Public Works a general deposit in an amount estimated by
the Director of Public Works to be sufficient to pay for the cost of permit
issuance fees, inspection fees and expected repairs occasioned by future
excavations or obstructions, but not to exceed $500.00.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-48) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-49 COMPUTATION OF COSTS.
   Whenever in this subchapter any costs are to be charged to any permittee and
no other method for the calculation thereof is specified, such cost shall be
the actual cost, including the proportionate part of the salaries, wages or
other compensation of any deputy or employee, plus the cost of overhead.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-49) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-50 EXEMPTION FROM DEPOSIT AND FEE FOR PUBLIC AGENCIES.
   If the United States, this state, any county, this or any other municipal
corporation or any school district or other public body files with the Director
of Public Works a written guarantee of payment of all costs for which it may
become liable to the city under this subchapter, then no deposit for costs
shall be required from such person. No permit issuance fee shall be required of
any public agency entitled to exemption therefrom, pursuant to California
Government Code, § 6103.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-50) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-51 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   If the applicant for a permit under this subchapter complies in all respects
with this subchapter and with all other applicable laws, rules, regulations or
ordinances of the city or of any other public agency, and pays the fees and
deposits required by this subchapter, the Director of Public Works shall
approve the application and issue the permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-51) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 7-3-52—7-3-56 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 7-3-57 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   The permit issued under this subchapter shall be subject to the following
conditions, which shall be stated thereon.
   (A)   The permit must be kept at the site of the work and be shown on demand
to any authorized representative of the city or any law enforcement officer.
   (B)   The permit shall authorize work to be performed only as to such
portion of the highway over which the city has jurisdiction.
   (C)   All work shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter and of all applicable laws, rules and regulations of the city and
any other public agency and to the satisfaction of the Director of Public
Works.
   (D)   The permit shall be nontransferable.
   (E)   The Director of Public Works may cancel the permit, unless the work
authorized therein is commenced within 60 days of the issuance of the permit
and thereafter, in the opinion of the Director of Public Works, is diligently
prosecuted to completion. Cancellation may be effected by giving written notice
thereof by sending the notice to the applicant by ordinary mail to the address
shown on the application.
   (F)   The Director of Public Works may, either at the time of the issuance
of the permit or at any time thereafter until the completion of the work,
prescribe such additional conditions as they may deem reasonably necessary for
the protection of the highway or for the prevention of undue interference with
traffic, or to ensure the safety of persons using the highway.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-57) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-58 COMPLIANCE WITH TERMS OF PERMIT.
   A permittee under this subchapter shall not make or cause to be made any
excavation, or construct, place upon, maintain or leave any obstruction or
impediment to travel, or pile or place any material in or upon any highway, or
install or maintain, or cause to be installed or maintained, any tank, pipe,
conduit, duct or tunnel in, upon or under the surface of any highway, at any
location or in any manner other than that described in the application as
approved by the Director of Public Works, or contrary to the terms of the
permit or of any provision of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-58) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-59 FILLING OF EXCAVATION OR REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTION ON COMPLETION OR WORK.
   (A)   Immediately upon completion of the work necessitating the excavation
or obstruction authorized by any permit issued pursuant to this subchapter, the
permittee shall promptly and in a workmanlike manner refill the excavation or
remove the obstruction to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   If any permittee fails or refuses to refill any excavation which they
have made or remove any obstruction which they have placed on any highway, the
Director of Public Works may do so, and the applicant shall promptly reimburse
the city the cost thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-59) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-60 RESURFACING SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Resurfacing after refilling and compacting. After completion of the
refilling and compacting of the backfill material in the excavation as
specified in §
7-3-70 and the removal of the obstruction, the permittee shall promptly
replace, with temporary or permanent patching material, or repair any portion
of the highway surface removed or damaged by the excavation, obstruction or
construction operations, as specified in this subchapter, to the satisfaction
of the Director of Public Works, or the Director of Public Works may, at their
option, elect to do the surfacing or repairing themself.
   (B)   Permanent repaving. Where the pavement, except portland cement
concrete pavement, or surface has been removed, the permittee shall replace it
with a standard repair consisting of either five inches of plant-mixed
surfacing or three inches of plant-mixed surfacing over six inches of untreated
rock base, except that the standard repair shall not be less in total thickness
than the adjacent pavement or surfacing and except that road-mixed surfacing
may be repaired with three inches of plant-mixed surfacing in lieu of the
standard repair. Plant-mixed surfacing shall consist of mineral aggregate and
liquid asphalt grade SC-6, or grade 200-300 penetration paving asphalt. If
portland cement concrete pavement is removed, it shall first be sawed at the
neat lines of the excavation and subsequently replaced with portland cement
concrete.
   (C)   Tunneling or boring. Excavation of pavement or surfacing on an
arterial highway, as shown on the master plan of highways and determined by the
Director of Public Works as having been improved with plant-mixed surfacing or
portland cement concrete pavement, will be permitted only when physical
conditions make boring or tunneling impossible. All boring and tunneling and
placing of conduits, casings and pipelines shall be done in such a manner that
the existing driving lanes will not be disturbed. If a casing is installed to
receive the conduit or pipeline, all voids between the casing and conduit shall
be filled with grout or sand.
   (D)   Replacing entire driving lane. If the surfacing or pavement within the
driving lanes of an arterial highway, as shown on the master plan of highways
and determined by the Director of Public Works as having been improved with
plant-mixed surfacing or portland cement concrete, is removed or damaged by
parallel construction operations, the existing surfacing or pavement of the
width of the driving lane for the length of the damaged surfacing shall be
removed and replaced, except that such a removal and replacement shall in no
case be less than 100 feet in length.
   (E)   Resurfacing multiple locations within city streets.
      (1)   When resurfacing pavement on any city street, residential,
commercial or arterial street, at a minimum, the resurfaced section must extend
the width of the driving lane (when multiple driving lanes exist) or the entire
street width where only one driving lane exists. For purposes of this section,
STREET WIDTH refers from the edge of curb and/or gutter to the other curb and/
or gutter. In cases where multiple areas within a street require resurfacing,
the resurfacing work shall be completed as a contiguous repair for the entire
street width. Individual patches or discontinuous resurfacing shall not be
permitted to avoid a patchy appearance and to ensure the structural integrity
and smoothness of the road surface. Exceptions to these requirements may be
permitted when the distance between areas needing resurfacing are more than 550
feet for arterial and commercial streets and 100 feet for residential streets.
All exceptions are subject to engineering evaluations and the written approval
of the City Engineer.
      (2)   As an alternative to performing the pavement resurfacing, the
applicant may request to pay an in-lieu fee to satisfy this requirement.
Payment in-lieu of resurfacing shall be subject to the approval of the Public
Works Department and the fee shall be determined in accordance with this
chapter.
      (3)   Pre-construction evaluations of the existing pavement conditions
shall be conducted, documented and submitted to the city for review and
approval prior to commencing work. If a contractor fails to obtain approval of
the existing pavement condition evaluation prior to commencing work,
resurfacing of all damaged areas within and adjacent to the work area is
required. Prior to acceptance of all resurfacing work, a post-construction
evaluation shall be conducted by the Public Works Department to ensure
compliance with these requirements and to assess the overall quality,
smoothness and/or safety of the resurfacing.
      (4)   Any changes to the plans that alter limits of work may invalidate
prior approvals of resurfacing limits. Revised resurfacing requirements are
subject to approval of the City Engineer.
   (F)   General standards. All materials and construction operations shall
conform to the applicable provisions of the city standard specifications.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-60) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-61 PAYMENT OF COSTS OF RESURFACING WHEN WORK DONE BY CITY.
   If, after the refilling of an excavation, a permittee under this subchapter
fails or refuses to resurface or repair that portion of the surface of the
highway damaged by them, or if the Director of Public Works has elected to do
such resurfacing or repairing, the Director of Public Works shall do so, and
the permittee shall be charged with the cost thereof computed by the Director
of Public Works as provided in §§
7-3-47 or
7-3-49, whichever, in the judgment of the Director of Public Works, will most
fairly compensate the city for the expenses incurred by it.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-61) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 7-3-62—7-3-66 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 7-3-67 PAYMENT OF COSTS OF FURTHER REPAIRS.
   If, at any time subsequent to the first repair of a surface of a highway
damaged or destroyed by any excavation or obstruction in such highway, it
becomes necessary again to repair such surface due to settlement or any other
cause directly attributable to such excavation or obstruction, the permittee
under this subchapter shall pay to the city the cost of such additional repairs
made by the Director of Public Works. The cost shall be computed by the
Director of Public Works, as provided in §§
7-3-47 or
7-3-49, whichever, in the judgment of the Director of Public Works, will most
fairly compensate the city for the expenses incurred by it.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-67) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-68 TRAFFICWAY TO BE KEPT OPEN.
   (A)   Trenching for installation across any intersecting roadway open to
traffic shall be progressive. Not more than one-half of the width of a traveled
way shall be disturbed at one time, and the remaining width shall be kept open
to traffic by bridging or backfilling.
   (B)   More than one-half of the width of a traveled way shall be disturbed
at one time only upon the prior authorization by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-68) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-69 DEPTH OF PIPES AND CONDUITS.
   The shallowest portion of any pipeline or other facility shall be installed
not less than 30 inches below the roadway surface, unless otherwise authorized
in writing by the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-69) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-70 BACKFILLING AND CLEANUP.
   (A)   General compaction requirements. All backfill replaced in excavations
within the road right-of-way shall be compacted until the relative compaction
within six feet of the top surface is not less than 90% and below six feet is
not less than the adjacent undisturbed soil as determined by the relative
compaction test specified in § 19-3 (Structure Excavation and Backfill) of the
California Standard Specifications, or as that section may be amended from time
to time.
   (B)   Compaction of clayey soils.
      (1)   CLAYEY MATERIALS shall be defined as a soil containing more than
30% of material which will pass a no. 200 mesh screen. CLAYEY MATERIAL replaced
as backfill may not be ponded or jetted, but shall be compacted as specified
under general compaction requirements by any other suitable method, providing
the material is first conditioned by wetting or drying to within 2% of optimum
moisture content.
      (2)   In lieu of backfilling with clayey material, the permittee, at
their option, may elect to furnish sandy or granular material, less than 30% of
which will pass a no. 200 mesh screen, in which case compaction may be obtained
as specified under general compaction requirements.
   (C)   Finishing and cleanup.
      (1)   After the work has been completed, all debris and excess material
from excavation and backfill operations shall be removed from the right-of-way
and the roadway left in a neat and orderly condition.
      (2)   All roadside drainage ditches shall be restored to the original
grades, and the inlet and outlet ends of all culverts shall be left free and
clear.
      (3)   All approaches to private driveways and intersecting highways and
streets shall be kept open to traffic at all times.
      (4)   Excess and nonsurfacing materials which adhere to roadway surfacing
as a result of construction operations shall be removed by approved methods to
the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-70) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-71 DEDUCTIONS FROM DEPOSIT; REFUND OF DEPOSIT.
   (A)   The city shall deduct the following from any deposit made or
maintained by a permittee under this subchapter:
      (1)   Issuance fee. The permit issuance fee if it has not otherwise been
paid;
      (2)   Refilling and obstruction removal costs. The cost to the city of
refilling any excavation or removing any obstruction;
      (3)   Resurfacing and repair costs. The cost to the city of resurfacing
or repairing the highway, calculated pursuant to the provisions of §§
7-3-47 or
7-3-49;
      (4)   Additional repair costs. The cost to the city of any additional
repairs, as provided in §
7-3-67; and
      (5)   Inspection costs. The cost of any inspection by the Director of
Public Works made necessary by the failure of the permittee to comply with any
provision of this subchapter or the terms or conditions of the permit. The
inspection fees provided for in §
7-3-41 shall be presumed to be the actual cost of inspection, and a refund
thereof shall not be made to any applicant.
   (B)   No engineering fees will be charged by the city for services rendered
pursuant to this subchapter. Inspection costs, however, will be paid for by the
applicant as provided for in §
7-3-41 and division (A)(5) above.
   (C)   (1)   After making the deductions specified in this section, the city
shall, unless the deductions are made from a general deposit, refund any
balance to the applicant in the same manner as provided by law for the
repayment of trust monies.
      (2)   The balance remaining in a general deposit shall be retained by the
Director of Public Works and applied to the issuance fees and costs in
connection with any future excavations, fills or obstructions pursuant to a
permit issued under this subchapter, unless a written demand for the balance is
made by the depositor, in which event any balance therein shall be refunded in
the same manner as provided by law for the repayment of trust monies.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-71) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 7-3-72—7-3-76 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 7-3-77 PAYMENT OF COSTS IN EXCESS OF DEPOSIT.
   If any deposit is insufficient to pay all fees and costs provided in this
subchapter, the permittee shall, upon demand, pay to the Director of Public
Works an amount equal to the deficiency.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-77) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-78 FAILURE TO PAY COSTS.
   If a permittee under this subchapter, upon demand, fails to pay any
deficiency as provided in §
7-3-77 or fails to pay any other costs due to the city under this subchapter
for which no deposit has been made, the city may recover the costs by an action
in any court of competent jurisdiction. Until such deficiency or cost is paid
in full, a permit shall not thereafter be issued under this subchapter to such
permittee.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-78) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-79 EMERGENCY WORK.
   Nothing in this subchapter prohibits any person from making such excavation
as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property when such
necessity arises during such hours as the offices of the city are closed, if
the person making such excavation obtains a permit therefor within one day
after the offices of the Director of Public Works are first opened subsequent
to the making of such excavation.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-79) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-80 VIOLATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   A person who violates any provision of this subchapter or of any permit
issued under this subchapter is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-80) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 7-3-81—7-3-90 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. PROTECTION DURING CONSTRUCTION ****
§ 7-3-91 TRAVEL OVER NEWLY MADE PAVEMENT AND MARKINGS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Highway construction. Whenever any public highway, county road, state
highway or city street within the city shall be hereafter, in course of
construction or improvement, paved with cement, asphaltum or any other
substance that is soft when first applied, it shall be unlawful for any person
to step, walk, ride or drive upon that portion of any such public highway,
county road, state highway or city street which is being at the time so
improved, until after the asphaltum or other substance shall become set or
hard.
   (B)   Pavement and markings. No person shall ride or drive any animal or any
vehicle over or across any newly made pavement, any pavement under construction
or any freshly painted markings upon any public road, highway or street when a
barrier or sign is in place warning persons not to drive over or across such
pavement or markings, or when a sign is in place stating that the street is
closed.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-91) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-3-92 CLOSING OF STREETS; BARRIERS AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definition. The term DIRECTOR, as used in this section, means the
Director of Public Works of the city.
   (B)   Authority of Director. Whenever it shall be deemed necessary by the
Director of Public Works to restrict the use of or close any city highway or
street for the protection of the public, for the protection of such city
highway or street from damage during storms or during construction, improvement
or maintenance operations thereon, the Director of Public Works may close or
restrict the use of the whole or any part of such city highway or street deemed
necessary to be excluded from public travel.
   (C)   Placement of warning signs, lights and devices. While any such city
highway or street or portion thereof is so closed, or while such highway or
street or portion thereof is in the process of construction or repair or
maintenance, the Director of Public Works or their employees, or the contractor
under authority of the Director of Public Works, may erect, or cause to be
erected, suitable barriers or obstructions thereon, may post, or cause to be
posted, conspicuous notices to the effect that such highway or street or
portion thereof is closed or directing the traffic, and may place, or cause to
be placed, warning lights or devices on such road or highway or portion
thereof. All warning signs, lights and devices shall conform to the uniform
sign chart of the California Division of Highways and the city’s Manual of
Warning Signs, Lights and Devices.
   (D)   Damaging or removing barriers, notices or warning signs. When such
highway or street or portion thereof is closed to the public or is in the
process of construction, repair or maintenance as provided in this section, any
person who willfully breaks down, removes, injures or destroys any such barrier
or obstruction, or tears down, removes or destroys any such notices, or
extinguishes, removes, injures or destroys any such warning lights or devices
so erected, posted or placed by such Director of Public Works or their
employees or contractor, or willfully enters upon or drives any vehicle on or
over such road or highway or portion thereof when in the process of
construction, repair or maintenance, without first obtaining a permit so to do
from the Director of Public Works or authorized contractor, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-92) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
***** CHAPTER 4: TRAFFIC ORDINANCES *****
Section
Subchapter 1. General Provisions
7-4-1—7-4-99   Reserved
7-4-100   Purpose of chapter
7-4-101   Traffic Manual
7-4-102   Definitions
7-4-103—7-4-199   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Traffic Administration
7-4-200   Enforcement of traffic laws
7-4-201   Traffic engineer generally
7-4-202   Duties of traffic engineering section
7-4-203   City Council authority
7-4-204   Authority of Traffic and Transportation Commission
7-4-205   Installation of automated traffic enforcement systems is prohibited
7-4-206—7-4-299   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Turning Movements
7-4-300   Designation of multiple turning lanes at intersections
7-4-301   Designation of two-way left turn lanes
7-4-302   Restrictions on turning movements
7-4-303—7-4-399   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Stop or Yield Intersections and Railroad Crossings
7-4-400   Through highways defined
7-4-401   Designation of stop intersections
7-4-402—7-4-499   Reserved
Subchapter 5. Pedestrian, Bicycle, Skateboard and Equestrian Regulations
7-4-500   Bicycle operation
7-4-500.1   Electric bicycle operation
7-4-501   Roller skating, skateboarding and bicycling prohibited in certain
designated areas
7-4-501.1   Definitions
7-4-501.2   Designation of public property as no roller skating, skateboarding
or bicycling area
7-4-501.3   Designation of private property to prohibit specified activities
7-4-501.4   Posting of signs
7-4-501.5   Fees
7-4-501.6   Penalty for violation of subchapter
7-4-501.7   Exemptions from subchapter
7-4-502   Riding skateboards, roller skates and similar conveyances on roadway
7-4-503   Pedestrian movements at intersections
7-4-504—7-4-599   Reserved
Subchapter 6. Stopping, Standing and Parking of Vehicles
7-4-600   Adoption of regulations
7-4-601   Establishment of prohibited or restricted parking zones
7-4-602   Reserved
7-4-603   Prohibited parking
7-4-604   Removal of vehicles from highway
7-4-605   Tow-away zones
7-4-606   Oversized vehicle parking regulations
7-4-607   Residential permit parking
7-4-608   Parking within designated markings
7-4-609—7-4-699   Reserved
Subchapter 7. Vehicle Size, Weight and Load
7-4-700   Weight, size and load restrictions
7-4-701   Permit for variation from limitations
7-4-702   Moving of buildings or other structures
7-4-703—7-4-799   Reserved
Subchapter 8. Abandoned, Wrecked, Dismantled or Inoperative Vehicles
7-4-800   Purpose and scope of subchapter
7-4-801   Definitions
7-4-802   Exemptions from subchapter
7-4-803   Additional remedies
7-4-804   Administration and enforcement of subchapter
7-4-805   Authority of designated contractors
7-4-806   Fees
7-4-807   Authority to abate and cause removal
7-4-808   Notice of intention to abate and remove
7-4-809   Hearing prior to removal
7-4-810   Procedure for hearings and orders
7-4-811   Appeals
7-4-812   Disposition of vehicle after order or appeal
7-4-813   Notice to California Department of Motor Vehicles
7-4-814   Assessment of costs of removal
7-4-815—7-4-899   Reserved
Subchapter 9. Temporary Street Closure
7-4-900   Generally
7-4-901   Application procedure
7-4-902   Enforcement of street closure
Cross-reference:
Health and sanitation, see Title 6
Public safety, see Title 11
Taxicab stands, see §§ 5-3-42 et seq.
Vehicular nuisances, see §§
11-8-47 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§§ 7-4-1—7-4-99 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 7-4-100 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall serve as the traffic ordinance for the city. Adoption by
the state legislature of the California Vehicle Code provides for uniform
traffic regulations throughout the state. Within these regulations, the
California Vehicle Code also delegates to local government specific authority
to adopt supplemental regulations by ordinance or resolution. It is the intent
of this chapter to establish specific city legal and organizational authority
for traffic management and regulatory enforcement of use within the public
right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-100) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-101 TRAFFIC MANUAL.
   To guide the application of the laws contained in this traffic ordinance not
in the California Vehicle Code, the City Council has adopted the city Traffic
Manual, which defines engineering policies, procedures and interpretations of
traffic engineering practice. Any amendments to the Traffic Manual shall be
approved by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-101) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Whenever
any words or phrases used in this chapter are defined in the California Vehicle
Code and amendments thereto, such definitions shall apply if such word or
phrase is not elsewhere defined in this chapter.
   BICYCLE LANE. A marked lane within the roadway designated by appropriate
signs and markings for the one-way use of bicycles.
   BICYCLE PATH and BICYCLE TRAIL. A specifically designated area for bicycle
use physically separated from the roadway.
   BICYCLE ROUTE. Any roadway designated as a bikeway pursuant to California
Streets and Highways Code, § 890.8 with official signs giving notice of such a
bikeway.
   BUS STOP ZONE. The space adjacent to the curb or edge of a roadway reserved
for the exclusive use of buses during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   CURB. The lateral boundary of the roadway, whether such curb is marked by
curbing construction or not so marked. It does not include the line dividing
the roadway of a street from parking strips in the center of a street or from
tracks or rights-of-way of public utility companies.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works or their authorized representative.
   HOLIDAYS. The holidays specified by the City Council.
   LOADING ZONE. The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named, they shall mean
standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the city.
   PASSENGER LOADING ZONE. The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PUBLIC PARKING FACILITY. A ground level surface parking lot or an above-
ground, below-ground or multiple-level parking facility that is owned or
operated by the city or any other government entity.
   RECREATION VEHICLE. Shall have the meaning set forth in California Health
and Safety Code, § 18010.
   SCHOOL DAYS. Days on which regularly scheduled public school classes are in
session.
   SKATEBOARD. A conveyance consisting of a short oblong board with small
wheels, propelled with or without mechanical power, which can be ridden by one
or more persons at a time.
   VEHICLE CODE. The California Vehicle Code.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-102) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 96-90, § 1,
passed 4-16-1996; Ord. 2022-214, § 2, passed 5-17-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§§ 7-4-103—7-4-199 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. TRAFFIC ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 7-4-200 ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC LAWS.
   The County Sheriff, who provides police services to the city pursuant to a
contract between the city and the county, is the agency responsible for traffic
control in the city. The State Highway Patrol may incidentally enforce traffic
laws in the city in the course of performing its duties with respect to traffic
laws on state highways.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-200) (Ord. 2020-204, § 6, passed 3-3-2020)
Cross-reference:
   Administration generally, see Title 2
   Advertising on parked vehicles, see §§
7-1-71 et seq.
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2020-204, § 6, adopted 3-3-2020, amended Subchapter 2 in its entirety
to read as herein set out. Former Subchapter 2, §§ 7-4-200 through 7-4-205,
pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from Ord. 90-11, § 6, adopted
3-6-1990; Ord. 96-90, §§ 2 through 5, adopted 4-16-1996; Ord. 2011-164, § 2,
adopted 9-20-2011; Ord. 2019-198, § 4, adopted 10-1-2019.
§ 7-4-201 TRAFFIC ENGINEER GENERALLY.
   The Traffic Engineer, under the authority of the Director of Public Works,
is hereby charged with the responsibility, under the powers and duties
specified in this chapter, to carry out and review all traffic engineering
functions affecting the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-201) (Ord. 2020-204, § 6, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 7-4-202 DUTIES OF TRAFFIC ENGINEERING SECTION.
   (A)   General duties. It shall be the general duty of the Traffic Engineer
to determine the installation, design, operation and maintenance of traffic
control devices, design and review traffic flow systems and appurtenances,
conduct engineering analyses of traffic accidents, devise remedial measures and
conduct engineering and traffic investigations of traffic conditions. The
traffic engineer shall also cooperate with the California Highway Patrol, the
County Sheriff’s Department, the County Fire Authority and other agencies as
appropriate in the development of ways and means to improve traffic conditions
and carry out the additional duties imposed by the ordinances of the city. In
the event that the city does not have a designated traffic engineer, the duties
set forth in this section may be performed by the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   Specific duties. The traffic engineer shall have the following
authority and specific duties.
      (1)   The traffic engineer shall have the authority and duty to implement
such traffic and parking regulations as necessary or appropriate to facilitate
traffic and parking within the city, and to install, modify or remove any
traffic devices; provided, further, that where City Council approval is
required by §
7-4-203, or Traffic and Transportation Commission approval is required prior to
implementation, such approval shall be obtained prior to implementation and
enforcement. Traffic and parking regulations implemented by the traffic
engineer shall be consistent with governing law, including the California
Vehicle Code and provisions of this code, and consistent with any direction of
the City Council or the Traffic and Transportation Commission.
      (2)   The traffic engineer shall have the authority to issue parking
permits, including residential parking permits and guest parking permits, as
authorized by this title.
      (3)   The traffic engineer, without the approval of the Traffic and
Transportation Commission or City Council, shall have the authority to install
and replace informational signs, directional signs, lane striping and traffic
warning signs, as distinguished from traffic control signs.
      (4)   The traffic engineer shall be responsible for posting such other
signs as directed by the Traffic and Transportation Commission and City
Council.
      (5)   Traffic and parking regulations shall not be implemented or
enforced until the appropriate signs are properly posted.
   (C)   Emergency powers. Subject to the provisions of division (D) below, the
traffic engineer shall have the following powers when they find that an
emergency condition exists threatening the public health and safety:
      (1)   The power to temporarily close streets; and
      (2)   The power to install traffic control signs.
   (D)   Expiration of emergency powers. Upon the expiration of the emergency
as specified in division (C) above, the traffic engineer shall reopen the
closed streets, remove the traffic control signs or take both such actions,
unless the City Council authorizes the continuance of such temporary street
closures or installation of the traffic control signs.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-202) (Ord. 2020-204, § 6, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 7-4-203 CITY COUNCIL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   City Council action shall be required by ordinance or resolution to
implement any traffic regulation only when an ordinance or resolution is
specifically required by state law.
   (B)   For purposes of example, but not an exclusive list, the following
items require City Council action prior to implementation:
      (1)   The establishment of crosswalks between intersections;
      (2)   The establishment of bicycle lanes separated from any vehicular
lanes upon highways, other than state and county highways;
      (3)   The determination and declaration of a prima facie or maximum speed
limit;
      (4)   The adoption of rules and regulations on the designation of any
intersection as a stop intersection;
      (5)   The designation of specific street segments for time limited
parking zones, including, but not limited to, time or day restrictions or one-
hour, two-hour or other time limitations; and
      (6)   The temporary closing of a portion of any street for celebrations,
parades, local special events and other purposes. Notwithstanding any provision
to the contrary, City Council approval shall also be required for the
designation of any street for use by vehicles having a gross weight, including
the vehicle and its load, in excess of three tons.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-203) (Ord. 2020-204, § 6, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 7-4-204 AUTHORITY OF TRAFFIC AND TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
   The city has formed a traffic and transportation commission. The provisions
that provide for its membership, duties and operations are found in Title 2,
Chapter 3, Subchapter 7, commencing with § 2-3-46. The Traffic and
Transportation Commission shall review and make recommendations to the City
Council on all traffic related matters which are listed in that subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-204) (Ord. 2020-204, § 6, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 7-4-205 INSTALLATION OF AUTOMATED TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT SYSTEMS IS PROHIBITED.
   Automated traffic enforcement systems, as that term is used in California
Vehicle Code, § 21455.5, shall not be installed on any city street or highway
that is within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-205) (Ord. 2020-204, § 6, passed 3-3-2020)
§§ 7-4-206—7-4-299 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. TURNING MOVEMENTS ****
§ 7-4-300 DESIGNATION OF MULTIPLE TURNING LANES AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The Director is authorized to place official traffic control devices within
or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles
turning at such intersections, and the Director is authorized to locate and
indicate more than one lane of traffic from which drivers of vehicles may make
right or left turns.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-300) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-301 DESIGNATION OF TWO-WAY LEFT TURN LANES.
   The Director is hereby authorized to establish and designate two-way left
turn lanes on streets or highways.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-301) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-302 RESTRICTIONS ON TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   The Director is hereby authorized to place and maintain signs or markings to
prohibit or to restrict left turns, right turns or U-turns at intersections,
driveways or between intersections.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-302) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 96-90, § 6,
passed 4-16-1996)
§§ 7-4-303—7-4-399 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTIONS AND RAILROAD CROSSINGS ****
§ 7-4-400 THROUGH HIGHWAYS DEFINED.
   All major, primary, secondary and commuter arterial highways of the city, as
shown on the Master Plan of Arterial Highways, as amended from time to time,
and on file in the office of the City Clerk, are hereby declared to be through
highways, unless specifically designated otherwise, together with such other
highways as the City Council may, by resolution, declare to be through
highways.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-400) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-401 DESIGNATION OF STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The Director is authorized to:
   (A)   Erect and maintain stop signs at entrances to any or all of such
through highways, as defined in §
7-4-400, from other public or private streets; and
   (B)   Install stop signs at intersections where, in their opinion, there is
an imminent danger without such control. The Director shall follow the
installation with request for City Council approval at the earliest
opportunity.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-401) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 7-4-402—7-4-499 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 5. PEDESTRIAN, BICYCLE, SKATEBOARD AND EQUESTRIAN REGULATIONS
****
§ 7-4-500 BICYCLE OPERATION.
   (A)   Riding in group. Persons operating bicycles within a bicycle lane or
upon a bicycle path shall ride in single file, except as provided for in
California Vehicle Code, § 21202(a).
   (B)   Direction of travel. Persons riding or operating a bicycle on a
bicycle trail or path may proceed in either direction, except on those trails
or paths designated for one-way traffic by appropriate markings or signs
defined by the direction of adjacent vehicular traffic.
   (C)   Walking bicycles. Bicycles may be walked subject to all provisions of
law applicable to pedestrians.
   (D)   Yielding right-of-way. Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield right-of-way to any and all pedestrians. A
person riding a bicycle, upon entering a roadway or driveway from a sidewalk,
shall yield to all traffic.
   (E)   Riding on sidewalks. Bicycles may be ridden on all sidewalks, at a
speed not to exceed five mph, except upon sidewalks within a business district,
upon sidewalks adjacent to any public school building when school is in
session, upon a sidewalk at a recreation center when in use, upon a sidewalk at
a church during services, over any pedestrian overcrossing or upon any other
sidewalk where prohibited by posted signs.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-500) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-38, § 3,
passed 6-18-1990; Ord. 96-90, § 7, passed 4-16-1996)
§ 7-4-500.1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE OPERATION.
   All references to this section shall include § 7-4-500. These requirements
are in addition to the other regulations for bicycle operation set forth in §
7-4-500.
   (A)   No person shall ride an electric bicycle in an unsafe manner on any
publicly-owned property, including, but not limited to, a public roadway,
highway, sidewalk, park; nor on any private property open to the public.
      (1)   UNSAFE MANNER means any act or acts in violation of this code,
California Vehicle Code or other existing law. An UNSAFE MANNER can also be
defined as operating an electric bicycle in such a way as to constitute a
danger to the operator, a passenger, other motorists, other riders or
pedestrians in the area.
      (2)   Examples of riding in an unsafe manner may include, but are not
limited to, the following actions:
         (a)   Intentionally lifting one or more wheels into the air while
riding on a highway, sidewalk, bicycle lane or bike path. It is not a violation
of this division (A)(2)(a) if one or more wheels lose contact with the ground
briefly due to the condition of the road surface or other circumstances beyond
the control of the rider;
         (b)   Riding on the sidewalk without due caution for pedestrians;
         (c)   Riding on the highway, or bicycle lane against the flow of
traffic;
         (d)   Intentionally swerving or riding around stopped or slowed
traffic;
         (e)   Operating an electric bicycle in a manner it was not designed
for, including carrying passengers when not designed for carrying passengers,
or standing on the seat of the bicycle;
         (f)   Not obeying posted signs or traffic lights; and
         (g)   A person under the age of 18 riding without a properly fitted
and fastened helmet.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate an electric bicycle while holding and
operating a handheld wireless telephone or an electronic wireless
communications device unless the wireless telephone or electronic wireless
communications device is specifically designed and configured to allow voice-
operated and hands-free operation, and it is used in that manner while riding.
      (2)   An ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE includes, but is not
limited to, a broadband personal communication device, a handheld device or
pager.
(Ord. 2024-227, § 2, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 7-4-501 ROLLER SKATING, SKATEBOARDING AND BICYCLING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN
DESIGNATED AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful and subject to punishment in accordance with §
7-4-501.6 for any person to engage in roller skating, skateboarding, bicycling
or similar activities in or on any public property when the public property has
been designated by resolution of the City Council and posted as a no roller
skating, skateboarding, bicycling or similar activity area, and in or on any
private property when the private property has been posted as a no roller
skating, skateboarding, bicycling or similar activity area, in accordance with
the procedures set forth in §
7-4-501.3.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-501) (Ord. 91-38, § 2, passed 6-18-1991; Ord. 92-55, § 2,
passed 3-3-1992)
§ 7-4-501.1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACROBATICS. Includes jumps, spins, loops, “360s”, handstands or any other
movements or tricks not essential to the ordinary use of the skateboard as a
transportation device, or the use of ramps, jumps, curbs, steps or other
devices used to force the skateboard off the ground.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. As designated in California Vehicle Code, § 235.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE. An electric bicycle equipped with both fully operable
pedals and an electric motor, as further defined by California Vehicle Code, §
312.5, as it may be amended from time to time.
   HAZARD. Any activity which threatens injury to person or property or
prevents the free use of public or private property by pedestrians or
motorists.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property held by private interests which is used
primarily for business, commercial or recreational purposes.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any property owned or maintained by the city or the Laguna
Niguel Community Services District.
   ROLLER SKATE. Any footwear or device which may be attached to the foot or
footwear, to which wheels are attached which may be used to aid the wearer in
moving or propulsion.
   SKATEBOARD. A board of any material which has wheels attached to it and
which may be propelled or moved by human, gravitational or mechanical power,
and to which there is not fixed any device or mechanism to turn or control the
wheels.
   SKATEBOARDING. For purposes of the prohibitions contained in this
subchapter, includes performing acrobatics while using or operating a
skateboard, or using or operating a skateboard in a manner which creates a
hazard. The term SKATEBOARDING shall not include the use or operation of a
skateboard while the user is in an upright or standing position and is using
the skateboard as a transportation device.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-501.1) (Ord. 91-38, § 2, passed 6-18-1991; Ord. 2024-227, §
3, passed 3-5-2024)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 7-4-501.2 DESIGNATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY AS NO ROLLER SKATING, SKATEBOARDING
OR BICYCLING AREA.
   The City Council, upon review and recommendation by the City Engineer, may
prohibit, from any public roadway, sidewalk or other public property, roller
skating, skateboarding, bicycling or similar activity, or any combination of
those activities. In order to prohibit any or all such activities from a
specific area, the City Council shall designate the area by the adoption of a
resolution prohibiting the activity from the area and order the posting of the
signage as provided for in §
7-4-501.4.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-501.2) (Ord. 91-38, § 2, passed 6-18-1991; Ord. 92-55, § 3,
passed 3-3-1992)
§ 7-4-501.3 DESIGNATION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY TO PROHIBIT SPECIFIED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Prohibition of roller skating, bicycling and similar activities. The
following procedures are applicable for prohibiting roller skating, bicycling
or similar activities, or any combination of those activities, on private
property.
      (1)   If the property is owner-occupied, the property owner shall submit
a written application requesting a designation of a no roller skating,
bicycling or similar activity area.
      (2)   If the property is occupied by tenants of the owner, then the
tenants shall submit a written application signed by a majority of the tenants
of the property supporting a designation of a no roller skating, bicycling or
similar activity area, and the application shall also contain the written
consent of the property owner.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall cause a notice of the City Council
consideration of the applications filed pursuant to this division (A)(3) to be
mailed to all tenants in the subject private property and the owner of the
subject private property at least five days prior to the date scheduled for the
City Council’s consideration of the application.
      (4)   The City Council may approve or deny the application for
designation of property as a no roller skating, bicycling or similar activity
area.
   (B)   Prohibition of acrobatic or hazardous skateboarding. The following
procedures are applicable for prohibiting acrobatic or hazardous skateboarding
on private property.
      (1)   The owner of owner-occupied property, or a majority of the tenants,
with the consent of the owner, of property occupied by tenants, may cause
acrobatic or hazardous skateboarding to be prohibited on their private property
by complying with the provisions of this division (B)(1).
      (2)   (a)   In order to cause acrobatic or hazardous skateboarding to be
prohibited, the owner, or a majority of the tenants with the consent of the
owner, shall provide to the city police services a written notice which
contains the following information:
            1.   A statement that the owner or tenants intend to prohibit
acrobatic and hazardous skateboarding on the property;
            2.   A description of the property, including the areas on which
acrobatic or hazardous skateboarding is to be prohibited;
            3.   A description of the signs the owner or tenants intend to post
in compliance with §
7-4-501.4 and an identification of the location for the posting of each sign;
and
            4.   The date by which the signs are to be posted and on which the
prohibition is intended to commence.
         (b)   As to tenant-occupied property, the written notice must be
signed by a majority of the tenants that occupy the property on which acrobatic
or hazardous skateboarding is to be prohibited.
      (3)   The prohibition on acrobatic or hazardous skateboarding shall go
into effect and be enforced by the city police services after the notice
required by this section has been provided to the city, the signage provided
for by this subchapter has been posted and the city police service has reviewed
the posted signs and determined that they are in compliance with this
subchapter.
      (4)   The individuals prohibiting the activities shall be responsible for
all costs incurred in providing the notice and posting the signage.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-501.3) (Ord. 91-38, § 2, passed 6-18-1991; Ord. 92-55, § 4,
passed 3-3-1992)
§ 7-4-501.4 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Prior to the enforcement of the prohibition on roller skating,
skateboarding, bicycling or similar activity, the area so designated shall be
posted with signs which provide substantially as follows:
      (1)   Roller skating, skateboarding, bicycling or similar activity is
prohibited by §
7-4-501. Any violation is punishable by a fine of $25.00 for a first offense.
      (2)   Skateboarding is prohibited by §
7-4-501. Any violation is punishable by a fine of $25.00 for a first offense.
   (B)   (1)   As to either public property or private property, if it is
intended that only certain of the activities listed in this section are to be
prohibited on certain property, then the required signs shall only designate
the activities which have been specifically prohibited.
      (2)   For example, if only acrobatic and hazardous skateboarding is
prohibited for a certain area, then the required signage shall state:
“Acrobatic or hazardous skateboarding is prohibited by Laguna Niguel Municipal
Code section
7-4-501. Any violation is punishable by a fine of $25.00 for a first offense.”
   (C)   The signage required by this section shall be posted in plain view at
all entrances to the property or area for which the prohibition is applicable,
and all signs shall not be less than 17 inches by 21 inches in size with
lettering not less than one inch in height. The prohibition as to a certain
property or area shall not go into effect or be enforced until the required
signage has been posted and approved by the city police services.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-501.4) (Ord. 91-38, § 2, passed 6-18-1991; Ord. 92-55, § 5,
passed 3-3-1992)
§ 7-4-501.5 FEES.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, establish fees for the receipt
and processing of applications and petitions for no roller skating,
skateboarding, bicycling or similar activity areas.
   (B)   In addition, the City Council may, by resolution, establish fees
sufficient to cover the costs of developing, printing and posting the areas
designated pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-501.5) (Ord. 91-38, § 2, passed 6-18-1991)
§ 7-4-501.6 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Any violation of this subchapter is deemed an infraction punishable by
a fine of $25.00.
   (B)   A second or subsequent violation of this subchapter shall be
punishable by a fine of $50.00.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-501.6) (Ord. 91-38, § 2, passed 6-18-1991)
§ 7-4-501.7 EXEMPTIONS FROM SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Any devices designated, intended and used solely for the
transportation of infants, the handicapped or incapacitated persons, devices
designed, intended and used for the transportation of merchandise to and from
the place of purchase, and other wheeled devices, when being used for either of
these purposes, shall be exempt from this subchapter.
   (B)   Furthermore, the City Council may, by resolution, suspend the
enforcement provisions of this subchapter to accommodate special events when so
requested by the event organizer.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-501.7) (Ord. 91-38, § 2, passed 6-18-1991)
§ 7-4-502 RIDING SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR CONVEYANCES ON ROADWAY.
   (A)   No person shall ride a skateboard, roller skates or other conveyance
propelled by human power other than a bicycle or cause or permit such
conveyance to roll or coast on the roadway of any highway in the city.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of this section is deemed an infraction punishable
by a fine of $25.00.
      (2)   A second or subsequent violation of this section shall be
punishable by a fine of $50.00.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-502) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-53, § 1,
passed 12-3-1991; Ord. 96-90, § 8, passed 4-16-1996)
§ 7-4-503 PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENTS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The Director is hereby authorized to place and maintain signs or markings to
prohibit or to restrict pedestrian crossings at certain legs of intersections.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-503) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 7-4-504—7-4-599 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 6. STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING OF VEHICLES ****
§ 7-4-600 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, regulations pertaining to
the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles shall be established by ordinance
or resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-600) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-601 ESTABLISHMENT OF PROHIBITED OR RESTRICTED PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Pursuant to the California Vehicle Code, the City Council, by
ordinance or resolution, shall establish specific portions of street segments
where the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles is either prohibited or
subject to parking time limitations.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the preceding general requirement, the traffic
engineer is hereby authorized to place appropriate signs or markings
prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles in the
following limited and specific circumstances and in the absence of a City
Council ordinance or resolution imposing a restriction on a particular street
segment.
   (C)   In the event that the city does not have a designated traffic
engineer, the duties set forth in this section may be performed by the Director
of Public Works:
      (1)   Bus stop zones. For loading and unloading passengers at a bus stop,
or for loading and unloading children at a school bus stop;
      (2)   Loading zones. For the purpose of loading and unloading passengers
or materials;
      (3)   Passenger loading zones. For the purpose of loading and unloading
passengers;
      (4)   School zones.
         (a)   On either side of any marked school pedestrian crosswalk; and
         (b)   Prohibiting parking or restricting parking during specific hours
of the day on that side of any street adjacent to any school property when such
parking, in the opinion of the Director, interferes with pedestrian, bicycle or
vehicle traffic, or creates a hazardous situation.
      (5)   Crosswalks. On either side of any marked pedestrian crosswalk;
      (6)   Intersections. On either side of any highway or street from its
intersection with any other highway or street for the purpose of turn lanes or
sight distance and visibility;
      (7)   Driveways. On either side of a driveway entrance to any highway or
street for the purpose of sight distance and visibility;
      (8)   Temporary no parking zones. Temporary no parking on any city
highway or street where the use of such highway or street or a portion thereof
is necessary for the cleaning, repair or construction of the highway or street
or the installation of underground utilities; or where the use of the highway
or street or any portion thereof is authorized for a purpose other than the
normal flow of traffic; or where the use of the highway or street or any
portion thereof is necessary for the movement of equipment, articles or
structures of unusual size and the parking of such vehicles would prohibit or
interfere with such use or movement; provided that signs giving notice that
such vehicles may be removed are erected or placed at least 24 hours prior to
the effective time of such no parking;
      (9)   Railroad crossings. Prohibit stopping from the centerline of a
railroad track crossing on any highway or street; and
      (10)   Narrow streets. Prohibit stopping on only one side of a street
which is 30 feet or less in width.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-601) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 96-90, § 9,
passed 4-16-1996; Ord. 2020-204, § 7, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 7-4-602 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 96-90, § 10, adopted 4-16-1996, repealed former § 7-4-602, relative to
an inventory of parking restrictions, which derived from Ord. 90-11, § 6,
adopted 3-6-1990.
§ 7-4-603 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   Parking in loading zone.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle to park
or stop the vehicle in any loading zone for any purpose other than unloading or
loading of passengers or materials, provided that no stop for the loading or
unloading of passengers shall be made for more than five minutes or provided
that no stop for the loading or unloading of materials shall be made for more
than 20 minutes.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle other
than a bus or school bus to stop or park the vehicle in a bus stop zone.
   (B)   Maximum parking time.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to park or stop any vehicle for a period of
time longer than 72 consecutive hours upon or within any public parking
facility, highway or street.
      (2)   For purposes of this division (B), the vehicle shall be considered
to have remained parked, unless, during any 72-hour period, said vehicle has
been removed at least 100 feet from the position it previously occupied; or the
odometer on said vehicle exhibits a change of at least one-tenth of one mile.
   (C)   Parking in no parking zone. Notwithstanding anything herein, it shall
be unlawful for any person to park in a designated no parking or no stopping
zone or any time-specific no parking or no stopping zone, when signs or
markings are placed giving notice of such prohibition.
   (D)   Parking of vehicle not in condition to be lawfully operated.
Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B) above, it shall be unlawful to
park, stop or leave sitting for a period of time longer than 12 consecutive
hours upon any public street or highway in the city any vehicle not in a
condition to be lawfully operated on the public highways.
   (G)   Parking vehicle for purpose of repair. It shall be unlawful to repair,
dismantle, overhaul or perform any mechanical work upon a vehicle, trailer,
camp car, trailer coach or recreational vehicle at any time on any part of any
public street or highway in the city, except to replace or otherwise repair a
tire or to make emergency repairs to enable such vehicle to be removed to a
proper place.
   (H)   Regulations for large vehicles. The following regulations shall apply
to buses, recreational vehicles, trailer buses, camp trailers, trailers,
campers, house cars and trailer coaches. It is the intent of this division (H)
that these vehicles shall not be parked on city streets, or designated publicly
used parking lots except as provided herein.
      (1)   No trailer shall be left unattached to any vehicle on any city
street, designated publicly used parking lot or alley for any period of time.
      (2)   Subject to §
7-4-606, no person shall park, stop or leave standing any of vehicles described
in this division (H), regardless of width, on any city street, designated
publicly used parking lot or alley in the city for more than four hours and may
only so park; provided that the size of the vehicle does not violate any other
regulations contained within this code, or the California Vehicle Code,
regulating the size of vehicles or the locations and times where vehicles are
prohibited from parking. For purposes of this division (H), a vehicle shall be
considered to have remained parked, unless, during any four-hour period, said
vehicle has been moved at least one-half mile from the position it previously
occupied. The following are exempt from this division (H):
         (a)   For the purpose of loading or unloading immediately adjacent to
the residential (non-commercial) property for which the vehicle is registered,
for a period not to exceed 24 hours or for a period not to exceed 72 hours if a
city-issued parking permit is obtained pursuant to division (I) below;
         (b)   If a vehicle is parked immediately adjacent to the property to
which it is registered and is used for daily business activities, as such
activities are permitted and licensed in compliance with this municipal code,
for a period not to exceed 72 hours, if a city-issued parking permit is
obtained, pursuant to division (I) below;
         (c)   If the recreational vehicle, bus or trailer is parked
immediately adjacent to the residential property which its occupants are
visiting, for a period not to exceed 72 hours, if a city-issued parking permit
is obtained by the owner of the immediately adjacent residential property,
pursuant to division (I) below; or
         (d)   Between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., no person shall
park, stop or leave standing any of these vehicles, regardless of width, for
more than four hours, provided the size of the vehicle does not violate any
other regulations contained within this municipal code, or the California
Vehicle Code, regulating the size of vehicles or the locations and times where
vehicles are prohibited from parking.
   (I)   City-issued parking permits. The following regulations shall apply to
all city-issued parking permits required by this section.
      (1)   Where a city-issued parking permit is required above, a maximum of
four, 72-hour parking permit extensions may be issued per residential address
per calendar year. For the purposes of this division (I), a 72-HOUR PARKING
PERMIT EXTENSION shall mean one 36-hour parking extension for the loading of
the recreational vehicle and one 36-hour parking extension for the unloading of
the recreational vehicle. Only round-trip extensions may be issued, and the
commencement of the unloading period must occur no sooner than 48 hours after
termination of the loading period. Longer running permits may be issued for
designated publicly used parking lots at the request of the parking lot owner
or manager, and at the discretion of the city’s Public Works Director.
      (2)   A parking permit/extension will be issued free of charge and may be
obtained from the City Public Works Department.
      (3)   The following information must be provided by the property owner:
the date and time the on-street parking permit is needed; the name and address
of the user and property owner requesting the parking extension; the make,
model and license plate number; and the location where the vehicle will be
parked.
      (4)   If the parking extension has been obtained, the vehicle may be
parked on a city street at the location, and during the period of time,
authorized by the parking extension.
         (5)   At the expiration of the initial 24-hour or any 36-hour period
provided by a city-issued parking permit, or at the end of any authorized
parking permit extension, the vehicle shall be moved from any and all city
streets and designated publicly used parking lots for the ensuing 72-hour
period.
      (6)   No two consecutive parking permits/extensions shall be granted
within a six day period.
      (7)   City parking permits shall not be issued for unattached boat or
supply trailers.
   (J)   Parking in bicycle lane. No person shall park or leave standing a
vehicle on a designated on-road bicycle lane anywhere on the city arterial
highway system, providing signs identifying such a lane and prohibiting parking
are posted.
   (K)   Parking in a time limited parking zone.
      (1)   No person shall park a motor vehicle at any place in the city in
violation of the time limits approved by the City Council and for which a sign
with the time limits is posted adjacent to the place.
      (2)   The City Council approves a two-hour time limit on the parking of
motor vehicles on eastbound Hidden Hills Road in front of Juanefio Park between
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. every day.
   (L)   Unauthorized parking in public parking facilities. When the city has
designated certain property as a public parking facility, or has restricted
parking space for parking by permit only, or where signs, lines or other
physical evidence indicates the manner in which motor vehicles must be parked
thereon, or restricts the time of day or period of time during which motor
vehicles may be left standing thereon, any violation of any such signs, lines,
directions or notices shall constitute a violation of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-603) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 96-90, § 11,
passed 4-16-1996; Ord. 2019-195, § 2, passed 1-15-2019; Ord. 2022-214, §§ 3, 4,
passed 5-17-2022)
§ 7-4-604 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM HIGHWAY.
   The removal of vehicles from a city highway or street, pursuant to the
provisions of California Vehicle Code, §§ 22650 et seq., is authorized under
the following circumstances:
   (A)   When a vehicle is parked or left standing for 72 or more consecutive
hours;
   (B)   When a vehicle is illegally parked in violation of any provision of
this code forbidding standing or parking and the use of the highway or street
or a portion thereof is necessary for the cleaning, repair or construction of
the highway or street, or for the installation of underground utilities, and
signs giving notice that such a vehicle may be removed are erected or placed at
least 24 hours prior to the removal by authorized personnel;
   (C)   Whenever the use of a highway or street or portion thereof is
authorized by the City Council for a purpose other than the normal flow of
traffic or for the movement of equipment, articles or structures of unusual
size, and the parking of any vehicle would prohibit or interfere with such use
or movement, and signs giving notice that such a vehicle may be removed are
erected or placed at least 24 hours prior to the removal by authorized
personnel; and
      (D)   Whenever any vehicle is parked or left standing on a highway or
street or portion thereof where such parking has been prohibited by this code.
No vehicle may be removed unless signs are posted giving notice of such
removal.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-604) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-605 TOW-AWAY ZONES.
   Whenever a no parking area has been established in accordance with the
provisions of this code, the City Council may, by resolution, determine that
any one or more of the circumstances described in California Vehicle Code, §
22651 exist in such area, and may designate such area as a tow-away zone.
Whenever the City Council has designated a tow-away zone, it shall be the duty
of the Director to cause signs to be posted giving notice that any vehicle
parked in such tow-away zone may be removed.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-605) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-606 OVERSIZED VEHICLE PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Residence district, for purposes of this section, shall include those
areas as defined in the California Vehicle Code, § 515. All other terms used in
this section, unless otherwise defined in the municipal code, shall have the
same meaning as the term is defined to mean in the California Vehicle Code.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding anything herein, no person shall park or leave
standing upon any public street or highway in a residence district in the city
any commercial vehicle, bus, motor truck, semitrailer or tractor trailer of a
width in excess of 80 inches as measured at the widest portion of the body of
the vehicle not including mirrors or other extensions, or of a weight in excess
of 10,000 pounds, or of a length in excess of 25 feet; or any item of farm
machinery or special purpose machine.
      (2)   Prohibited vehicles may be parked on public residence district
streets and highways:
         (a)   While loading or unloading persons and/or property;
         (b)   When such vehicle is parked in connection with, or in aid of the
performance of a service to or on a property in the block in which such vehicle
is parked; or
         (c)   To perform repairs of an emergency nature on the vehicle itself.
   (C)   (1)   Notwithstanding anything herein, no person shall park or leave
standing upon any public street or highway in the city any commercial vehicle,
bus, motor truck, semitrailer or tractor trailer of a width in excess of 80
inches as measured at the widest portion of the body of the vehicle not
including mirrors or other extensions, or of a weight in excess of 10,000
pounds, or of a length in excess of 25 feet between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m.
      (2)   Prohibited vehicles may be parked on public streets and highways:
         (a)   While loading or unloading persons and/or property;
         (b)   When such vehicles are parked in connection with, or in aid of
the performance of a service to or on a property in the block in which such
vehicle is parked;
         (c)   To perform repairs of an emergency nature on the vehicle; or
         (d)   When such vehicles are parked in compliance with a preferential
parking program adopted by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-606) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 93-61, § 1,
passed 4-6-1993; Ord. 2012-170, § 2, passed 5-15-2012)
§ 7-4-607 RESIDENTIAL PERMIT PARKING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the city residential permit parking programs
is to regulate and manage residential curb parking problems. The parking
problems must substantially interfere with the normal and expected use of
available public street parking spaces at regular daily or weekly intervals.
The City Council may establish residential permit parking programs in
accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BLOCK. Both sides of a street lying between two intersecting streets
without interruption by any other intersecting street on either side.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works of the city.
      DISTRICT. An area established by resolution of the City Council, pursuant
to this section.
      GUEST. Any person visiting or intending to visit a person residing in a
permit parking district.
      NONRESIDENTIAL USER. The owner or tenant in possession of any property in
a permit parking designated area which is not used for residential purpose, and
the officers, employees, agents, licensees and invitees thereof.
      RESIDENTIAL AREA. Defined per the definition of residence district in the
California Vehicle Code, § 515.
      STREET. Both sides of a street defined by logical limits which may span
one or more blocks.
   (C)   Designation of permit parking areas. Following review and
recommendation by the City Traffic Commission, the City Council may establish
permit parking by resolution. Any such resolution shall designate the
boundaries of the permit parking district, the streets or the individual block
designations. It shall specify the nature of the parking limitations which
apply within the designated areas.
   (D)   Procedures.
      (1)   The resolution specified in division (C) above may provide that
parking restrictions imposed pursuant to this section shall apply to the
designated permit parking area only after a petition signed by the owners of
67% or more of the residential lots abutting the on-street parking spaces of
the subject restrictions have filed a petition with the Traffic Commission
expressing their desire for such parking restrictions.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall determine the adequacy of the petition in
accordance with the following standards.
         (a)   In the case of a property owned by the co-owners, the signature
of any one co-owner on the petition shall be sufficient.
         (b)   In the case of a property owned by a partnership, the signature
of any general partner on the petition shall be sufficient.
         (c)   Ownership shall be determined by reference to the latest
available tax assessment roll, or by such proof of subsequent acquisition of
title as may be provided to the Director by the owner.
   (E)   Signs and notices. Upon the establishment of a permit parking
designation, the Director shall cause appropriate signs to be erected in the
entrances of a district, street or block indicating thereon the parking
limitation applicable to the area and the exemption therefrom of vehicles with
permits. In addition, the Director shall send notification of the permit
parking designation and regulations to all recorded homeowners’ associations
within the area.
   (F)   Issuance of permits. Applications to park within a residential permit
parking designated area may be made by any resident or any eligible
nonresidential user residing or working within such area who is licensed to
drive a vehicle. Such applications shall be the sole responsibility of the user
and filed with the Director, or their designated representatives. Unless
otherwise prescribed by the resolution establishing the district, each
household will receive one permanent decal per registered vehicle. Any permit
decal issued by the city pursuant to this section shall be valid only so long
as the person to whom the permit is issued owns the vehicle and controls the
property which ownership or control qualified the person to obtain the permit.
Any replacement due to damage of the permit or purchase of a new vehicle is the
responsibility of the user.
   (G)   Guest parking permits. Unless otherwise prescribed in the resolution
establishing a residential parking permit area, each residential unit shall be
entitled to receive three mirror-type guest parking permits from the Director.
Upon application, residents may receive additional permits as needed for
special occasions (placards).
   (H)   Display of permits (decals). The city will provide each type of
permit.
      (1)   A parking permit decal issued pursuant to this section, other than
a guest parking permit, shall be permanently affixed to the left inside rear
window of the vehicle for which it was issued.
      (2)   Guest parking permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit from
the rear view mirror.
      (3)   Placards shall be displayed in left front portion of the dashboard,
face up.
   (I)   Exempt vehicles. The following vehicles are exempt from parking
restrictions applicable to any parking permit designated area:
      (1)   Repair, maintenance, refuse collection, utility, fuel, delivery and
service vehicles being used in the course of business;
      (2)   Vehicles owned or operated by any government agency, or contractor
of a government agency, being used in the course of business; and
      (3)   Emergency life support and health care vehicles owned or operated
by any governmental agency, being used in the course of business.
   (J)   Authority of director. The Director is authorized to establish rules
and procedures and to produce signs, forms and other materials necessary or
appropriate to implement the provisions of this section.
   (K)   Permit fees. The City Council may, by resolution, establish fees for
permit applications under this or other future permit parking programs.
   (L)   Removal of permit parking restrictions.
      (1)   The City Council, pursuant to a recommendation of the Traffic
Commission, may, by resolution, terminate and dissolve any previously
established permit parking designation. The Director shall remove parking
restriction signs in accordance with any such resolution.
      (2)   Permit parking restrictions imposed shall be ended with a petition
so requesting and signed by the owners of 67% of the residential lots abutting
such block. Upon their determination that the petition is adequate in
accordance with the standards set forth in this section, the Director should
remove parking restriction signs from such block.
   (M)   Enforcement and penalties.
      (1)   Unless exempted by the provisions of this section, no person shall
stand or park a motor vehicle in any permit parking designated area in
violation of any parking restrictions established pursuant to this section.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person holding a permit to transfer
such a permit to a vehicle not registered for such permit. No person shall
copy, produce and otherwise counterfeit a residential or guest parking permit
issued pursuant to the permit parking program. The Director shall be empowered
to cancel or revoke any permit which is utilized for a vehicle not registered
pursuant to this section.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely represent themself
as eligible for a parking permit or furnish false information to the Director
or their representatives in an application for a parking permit.
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this section shall be an infraction.
The penalty for a first and subsequent conviction shall be assessed according
to the uniform bail schedule that is in force at the time of the violation
applicable to South Orange County.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-607) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-47, § 1,
passed 10-1-1991; Ord. 2007-148, § 1, passed 9-18-2007)
§ 7-4-608 PARKING WITHIN DESIGNATED MARKINGS.
   Where any parking space has pavement markings designating the allotted
parking space, vehicles shall be parked entirely within the designated limits
of such parking space.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-608) (Ord. 2022-214, § 6, passed 5-17-2022)
§§ 7-4-609—7-4-699 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 7. VEHICLE SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD ****
§ 7-4-700 WEIGHT, SIZE AND LOAD RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Council may set varying weight, size and load limits on certain
bridges or roadways when such a restriction is in the interest of the safety of
the motoring public.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-700) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 96-90, § 12,
passed 4-16-1996)
§ 7-4-701 PERMIT FOR VARIATION FROM LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Issuance. The Director is authorized to issue permits for variations
from the size, weight and load limitations set forth in the California Vehicle
Code, §§ 35000 et seq. Such authorization shall be exercised in accordance with
the guidelines and restrictions set forth in the California Vehicle Code, §§
35780 et seq.
   (B)   Fee. An administration fee for permits issued for a vehicle or
combination of vehicles under the provisions of this section shall be
established by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Security. The Director may require such undertaking or security as
they deem necessary to protect the highways, streets and bridges from injury,
or to provide indemnity for any injury resulting from the operation of the
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-701) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-702 MOVING OF BUILDINGS OR OTHER STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Minimum manpower. It shall be unlawful for any building or structure
20 feet or more in width to be moved over, upon, along or across any highway,
street, alley or way, unless the contractor so moving the building shall have
not less than five persons engaged in the moving operations, comprised as
follows:
      (1)   A foreperson;
      (2)   A truck driver;
      (3)   A person on the building to handle wire clearances; and
      (4)   Two flaggers, with one flagger to be at least 300 feet ahead of the
building or structure, and the other flagger to follow the building or
structure at a distance sufficient to give adequate warning to approaching
traffic. The flagger shall carry the signals required by law.
   (B)   Relocation permit required. When any building is to be moved, the
permit shall not be issued unless a relocation permit, issued pursuant to Title
8, Chapter 1 has been obtained for the relocation of the building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-702) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Relocated buildings code, see §
8-1-189
§§ 7-4-703—7-4-799 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 8. ABANDONED, WRECKED, DISMANTLED OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLES ****
§ 7-4-800 PURPOSE AND SCOPE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   In addition to other statutory authority for the removal of vehicles from
public or private property and in accordance with the authority granted by the
state under the California Vehicle Code, § 22669 to remove abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled or inoperative vehicles or parts thereof as public nuisances, the
City Council hereby makes the following findings and declarations. The
accumulation and storage of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicles or parts thereof on private or public property, not including highways
and streets, is hereby found to create a condition tending to reduce the value
of private property, to promote blight and deterioration, to invite plundering,
to create fire hazards, to constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard
to health and safety for minors, to create a harborage for rodents and insects
and to be injurious to health, safety and general welfare. Therefore, the
presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or parts
thereof on private or public property, not including highways and streets,
except as expressly permitted in this subchapter, is hereby declared to
constitute a public nuisance, which may be abated as such in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-800) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-801 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER OF THE LAND. The owner of the land on which the vehicle, or parts
thereof, is located, as shown on the last equalized assessment roll.
   OWNER OF THE VEHICLE. The last registered owner and legal owner of record.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-801) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 7-4-802 EXEMPTIONS FROM SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   This subchapter is not applicable to:
      (1)   A vehicle, or parts thereof, which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property; or
      (2)   A vehicle, or parts thereof, which is stored or parked in a lawful
manner on private property in connection with the business of a licensed
dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer or junk dealer or when such storage or
parking is necessary to the operation of a lawfully conducted business or
commercial enterprise.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall authorize the maintenance of a public or
private nuisance as defined under provisions of law other than this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-802) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-803 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   This subchapter is not the exclusive regulation of abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled or inoperative vehicles within the city. It shall supplement and be
in addition to the other regulatory codes, statutes and ordinances heretofore
or hereafter enacted by the city, the county, the state or any other legal
entity or agency having jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-803) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-804 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the provisions of this
subchapter shall be administered and enforced by the Chief of Police. In the
enforcement of this subchapter, such officer and their regularly salaried full-
time deputies may enter upon private or public property to examine a vehicle or
parts thereof or obtain information as to the identity of the owner of the
vehicle, and to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or parts thereof
declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-804) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-805 AUTHORITY OF DESIGNATED CONTRACTORS.
   When the City Council has contracted with or granted a franchise to any
person to do so, such person shall be authorized to enter upon private property
or public property to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or parts thereof
declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-805) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-806 FEES.
   The City Council shall, by resolution, determine and fix an amount to be
assessed as costs of administration and removal of any vehicle or parts thereof
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-806) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-807 AUTHORITY TO ABATE AND CAUSE REMOVAL.
   Upon discovering the existence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or
inoperative vehicle or parts thereof on private property or public property
within the city, the Chief of Police shall have the authority to cause the
abatement and removal thereof in accordance with the procedure prescribed in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-807) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-808 NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ABATE AND REMOVE.
   (A)   A ten-day notice of intention to abate and remove a vehicle or parts
thereof as a public nuisance pursuant to this subchapter shall be given unless
the property owner and the owner of the vehicle have signed releases
authorizing removal and waiving further interest in the vehicle or parts
thereof.
   (B)   The notice shall be mailed by registered or certified mail to the
owner of the land, and to the owner of the vehicle unless the vehicle is in
such condition that identification numbers are not available to determine
ownership.
   (C)   The notice of intention shall be in substantially the following form:
 
LAND OWNER
 
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ABATE AND REMOVE AN ABANDONED, WRECKED, DISMANTLED OR
INOPERATIVE VEHICLE OR PARTS THEREOF AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE
 
(Name and address of owner of the land)
 
As owner shown on the last equalized assessment roll of the land located at
(address), you are hereby notified that the undersigned, pursuant to section 7-4-
804 of the Laguna Niguel Municipal Code, has determined that there exists upon
said land an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle, or parts
thereof (hereinafter “vehicle”), registered to _________, license number ________,
which constitutes a public nuisance pursuant to the provisions of section 7-4-800
of said Municipal Code.
 
You are hereby notified to abate said nuisance by the removal of said vehicle or
parts thereof, within ten days of the date of mailing of this notice, and upon
your failure to do so the same will be abated and removed by the city, with
administrative costs assessed to you as owner of the land on which said vehicle is
located. Upon removal, said vehicle(s) shall not be reconstructed or made operable
unless it qualifies for either horseless carriage license plates or historical
vehicle license plates pursuant to Vehicle Code § 5004.
 
As owner of the land on which said vehicle is located, you are hereby notified
that you may, within ten days after the mailing of this notice of intention,
request a public hearing; and if such a request is not received by the chief of
police within such ten-day period the chief of police shall have the authority to
abate and remove said vehicle as a public nuisance and assess the cost as
aforesaid without a public hearing. You may submit a sworn written statement
within such ten-day period denying responsibility for the presence of said vehicle
on said land, with your reasons for denial, and such statement shall be construed
as a request for hearing at which your presence is not required. You may appear in
person at any hearing requested by you or the owner of the vehicle or, in lieu
thereof, may present a sworn written statement as aforesaid in time for
consideration at such hearing.
 
Notice mailed ________.
(date)
/s/   ______________
Chief of Police
 
VEHICLE OWNER
 
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ABATE AND REMOVE AN ABANDONED, WRECKED, DISMANTLED OR
INOPERATIVE VEHICLE OR PARTS THEREOF AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE
 
(Name and address of last registered and/or legal owner of record of vehicle.
Notice should be given to both if different.)
 
As the last registered (and/or legal) owner of record of (description of
vehicle-make, model, license, etc.), you are hereby notified that the
undersigned, pursuant to section 7-4-804 of the Laguna Niguel Municipal Code,
has determined that said vehicle, or parts thereof (hereinafter “vehicle”),
exists as an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle at (describe
location on public or private property) and constitutes a public nuisance
pursuant to the provisions of section 7-4-800 of said Municipal Code.
 
You are hereby notified to abate said nuisance by the removal of said vehicle
within ten days after the mailing of this notice. You are further notified that
you may, within ten days after the mailing of this notice of intention, request
a public hearing; and if such a request is not received by the chief of police
within such ten-day period the chief of police shall have the authority to
abate and remove said vehicle without a hearing. Upon removal said vehicle(s)
shall not be reconstructed or made operable unless it qualifies for either
horseless carriage license plates or historical vehicle license.
 
Notice mailed ________.
(date)
/s/   ____________
Chief of Police
 
(Prior Code, § 7-4-808) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-809 HEARING PRIOR TO REMOVAL.
   (A)   Upon request by the owner of the vehicle or owner of the land received
by the Chief of Police within ten days after the mailing of the notices of the
intention to abate and remove pursuant to this subchapter, a public hearing
shall be held by the Chief of Police, or their designee, on the question of
abatement and removal of the vehicle or parts thereof as an abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled or inoperative vehicle, and the assessment of the administration
cost and the costs of removal of the vehicle or parts thereof against the
property on which it is located.
   (B)   If the owner of the land submits a sworn written statement denying
responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on their land within such ten-
day period, the statement shall be construed as a request for a hearing, which
does not require their presence. Notice of the hearing shall be mailed, by
registered or certified mail, at least ten days before the hearing, to the
owner of the land, and to the owner of the vehicle, if known. If such a request
for hearing is not received within ten days after mailing of the notice of
intention to abate and remove, the Chief of Police shall have the authority to
abate and remove the vehicle as a public nuisance without holding a public
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-809) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-810 PROCEDURE FOR HEARINGS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   All hearings under this subchapter shall be held before the Chief of
Police, or their designee, who shall hear all facts and testimony they deem
pertinent. The facts and testimony may include testimony on the condition of
the vehicle or parts thereof and the circumstances concerning its location on
the private or public property. The Chief of Police, or their designee, shall
not be limited by the technical rules of evidence. The owner of the land may
appear in person at the hearing or present a sworn written statement in time
for consideration at the hearing, and deny responsibility for the presence of
the vehicle on the land, with their reasons for such denial.
   (B)   The Chief of Police, or their designee, may impose such conditions and
take such other action as they deem appropriate under the circumstances to
carry out the purpose of this subchapter. They may delay the time for removal
of the vehicle or parts thereof if, in their opinion, the circumstances justify
it. At the conclusion of the public hearing, they may find that a vehicle, or
parts thereof, has been abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or is inoperative on
private or public property and order the vehicle, or parts thereof, removed
from the property as a public nuisance and disposed of as provided in this
subchapter and determine the administrative costs and the cost of removal to be
charged against the owner of the land. The order requiring removal shall
include a description of the vehicle, or parts thereof, and the correct
identification number and license number of the vehicle, if available. Such
order shall be in writing.
   (C)   If it is determined at the hearing that the vehicle was placed on the
land without the consent of the owner of the land and that they have not
subsequently acquiesced in its presence, the Chief of Police, or their
designee, shall not assess the cost of administration or removal of the vehicle
against the property upon which the vehicle is located or otherwise attempt to
collect such costs from such owner of the land.
   (D)   If the owner of the land submits a sworn written statement denying
responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on their land but does not
appear, they shall be notified by registered or certified mail of the decision.
If the owner of the vehicle requested the hearing, but does not appear, they
shall be notified by registered or certified mail of the decision.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-810) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-811 APPEALS.
   (A)   The owner of the land or the owner of the vehicle who requested a
public hearing by the Chief of Police pursuant to this subchapter may appeal
the decision of the Chief of Police by filing a written notice of appeal with
the Chief of Police within five days after the decision of the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Such appeal shall be heard by the City Council, which may affirm,
amend or reverse the order or take other action deemed appropriate.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall give written notice of the time and place of the
hearing to the appellant and those persons specified in §
7-4-808.
   (D)   In conducting the hearing, the City Council shall not be limited by
the technical rules of evidence. The decision of the City Council shall be
final.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-811) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-812 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE AFTER ORDER OR APPEAL.
   Five days after adoption of the order declaring the vehicle or parts thereof
to be a public nuisance pursuant to this subchapter, or five days from the date
of mailing the notice of the decision if such notice is required by §
7-4-810, or 15 days after such action of the City Council authorizing removal
following appeal, the vehicle, or parts thereof, may be disposed of by removal
to a scrap yard or automobile dismantler’s yard, subject to the provisions of §
7-4-808 relating to horseless carriages or historic vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-812) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-813 NOTICE TO CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Within five days after the date of removal of a vehicle or parts thereof
pursuant to this subchapter, notice shall be given to the California Department
of Motor Vehicles identifying the vehicle or parts thereof removed. At the same
time, there shall be transmitted to the Department of Motor Vehicles any
evidence of registration available, including, but not limited to, registration
cards, certificates of ownership or license plates.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-813) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 7-4-814 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS OF REMOVAL.
   If the administrative costs and the cost of removal which are charged
against the owner of the parcel of land pursuant to §
7-4-806 are not paid within 30 days of the date of the order or the final
disposition of an appeal therefrom, such costs shall be assessed against the
parcel of land and collected pursuant to California Government Code, § 25845.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-814) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 7-4-815—7-4-899 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 9. TEMPORARY STREET CLOSURE ****
§ 7-4-900 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided by law, it shall be unlawful, to close
any public street, unless a street closing permit therefor has been issued in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   The Director of Public Works may issue a street closing permit
subject to the provisions of this subchapter and subject to such terms and
conditions as are determined by the Director to be necessary and proper for the
protection of the public health, safety and welfare.
      (3)   Street closing permits shall only be issued to adults.
   (B)   Fire lanes. Any street closed pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter shall at all times have a 15-foot wide emergency vehicle lane which
lane shall extend throughout the closed area of the street and beyond to the
next intersection in both directions. Said lane shall be at all times kept
clear of all obstructions to provide emergency vehicular access.
   (C)   Fire hydrants. No obstruction shall be erected or maintained within a
15-foot wide radius of any fire hydrant.
   (D)   Time limits. No street closing permit shall be issued for any duration
longer than one calendar day, nor for any time before 8:00 a.m. or after 12:00
a.m. (midnight).
   (E)   Closure limits. No street closing permit shall be issued which allows
the closure of an intersection, the closure of any street for more than 600
feet measured along the centerline of the street or the closure of 300 feet on
a cul-de-sac or dead end.
   (F)   Number. No more than five temporary street closures will be permitted
on the same calendar day in any fire station initial response area.
Applications therefor will be considered on a chronological (first come, first
served) basis.
   (G)   Department. Any event for which a street closing permit has been
issued shall be conducted in such a manner so as not to unduly disturb the
public peace.
   (H)   Alcoholic beverages. At no event for which a street closing permit has
been issued shall there be permitted the sale of alcoholic beverages. In
addition, the consumption thereof by any minor is not permitted.
   (I)   Cleanup. Any person or persons issued a street closing permit shall,
at the conclusion of the event for which such permit was issued, return all
public properties to their original condition.
   (J)   Street barricades. Any person or persons issued a street closing
permit shall personally pick up from the Public Works Department and return to
the Department all street barricades necessary for the event and the street
closure. Any such person shall place, remove and maintain the street barricades
in their proper position during the approved time for the street closure and
notify city police services and the County Fire Authority as to the exact time
of the placement and removal of the street barricades.
   (K)   Additional requirements. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
subchapter, the Chief of Police and/or the Fire Chief, or their delegates, may
impose, as to the issuance of a street closure permit, such additional
conditions or requirements as each may deem reasonably necessary for the
protection of health and safety.
   (I)   Interference with event. No person shall join or participate in any
event for which a street closing permit has been issued without the express or
implied consent of the permittee, nor shall any person interfere with its
orderly conduct.
   (M)   Noise. The event and participants shall at all times comply with the
provisions contained in §§
6-6-1 through
6-6-15 which pertain to the abatement of noise.
   (N)   Revocation or suspension. Any street closing permit may be immediately
suspended or revoked by the Director of Public Works if they determine that
there has been a failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the issued
street closing permit or the provisions of this subchapter. Upon suspension or
revocation of the permit, the person receiving the permit shall immediately
remove the street barricades, and if that person fails to remove them, they may
be removed by the Public Works Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-900) (Ord. 96-91, § 1, passed 4-16-1996)
§ 7-4-901 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Applications.
      (1)   Every application for a street closing permit shall be made in
writing upon such forms as shall be designed and promulgated by the Department
of Public Works.
      (2)   Every application for a street closing permit shall be filed with
the city not less than 30 days nor more than 90 days prior to the date of the
event.
      (3)   All applications for a street closing permit shall include:
         (a)   The names, addresses and signatures of the applicant or
applicants, or, if the applicant is an organization, the names, addresses and
signatures of its responsible officer(s);
         (b)   The exact location of the proposed street closure and the date
and times therefor;
         (c)   The names, addresses and written consent of all owners or
property abutting the affected street; and
         (d)   A description of the nature of the event, the estimated number
of participants and the nature of entertainment at the event, if any.
   (B)   Deposit. As a condition of issuance of any street closing permit, a
refundable deposit may be required by the Public Works Department to ensure
cleanup and repair of public property after the conclusion of the event for
which the street has been closed or for other purposes, such as ensuring the
return of the barricades in good condition.
   (C)   Damages; insurance.
      (1)   Any person or persons to whom a street closing permit has been
issued shall be liable for any loss or damage to any city property arising out
of the issuance or exercise of said permit.
      (2)   As a condition to the issuance of any street closing permit, the
permittee or permittees may be required by the Public Works Department to
provide insurance to indemnify and defend the city and its officers and
employees from any and all personal injuries and property damages, including
costs of litigation, arising out of the issuance and use of such permit.
   (D)   Permit processing.
      (1)   Upon receipt of any street closing permit application, the Public
Works Director, prior to their issuing a permit, shall forward the application
to police services and the County Fire Authority for their review and approval.
      (2)   The Director of Public Works shall issue a street closing permit
upon their finding of the following:
         (a)   That the proposed activity or use of the street will not
unreasonably interfere with traffic circulation in the area;
         (b)   That the proposed activity and use will not be detrimental to
the public health, welfare, safety and recreation; and
         (c)   That the proposed activity or use will not entail extraordinary
or burdensome expense to the emergency services of the city.
   (E)   Appeal.
      (1)   The decision to grant or deny any application for a street closing
permit may be appealed to the Traffic Commission for consideration at its next
regularly scheduled meeting.
      (2)   The decision of the Traffic Commission may be appealed to the City
Council for consideration at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
      (3)   Any permit under appeal shall be considered denied if there is
insufficient time to complete the appeal process.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-901) (Ord. 96-91, § 1, passed 4-16-1996)
§ 7-4-902 ENFORCEMENT OF STREET CLOSURE.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle either upon any portion of
roadway temporarily closed pursuant to this subchapter, nor adjacent to either
side of any barricade erected therefor; provided, however, that the provisions
of this subchapter shall not apply to the loading or unloading of material.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-902) (Ord. 96-91, § 1, passed 4-16-1996)
***** CHAPTER 5: FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Protection of District Property
7-5-1   Alteration or obstruction of drainage works or ditches
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. PROTECTION OF DISTRICT PROPERTY ****
§ 7-5-1 ALTERATION OR OBSTRUCTION OF DRAINAGE WORKS OR DITCHES.
   (A)   Districts under 1903 Act. It shall be unlawful for any person, without
permission or authority from the Board of Directors of any drainage district in
the county organized under an act of the legislature of this state entitled,
“An act to provide for the organization and government of drainage districts,
for the drainage of agricultural lands other than swamp and overflowed lands,
and to provide for the acquisition or construction thereby of works for the
drainage of the lands embraced within such districts”, and approved March 20,
1903, and acts amendatory thereof, to dig in, upon or through any of the works
of any such district, or impair, remove or obstruct any of such works or any
ditch, pipe, aqueduct or bridge constituting a part of any such works, whereby
the efficiency of such works may be impaired or endangered and the drainage of
the lands of such district or a portion thereof be prevented, impeded, retarded
or endangered, or the overflow of such lands or a portion thereof from the
works so injured, impaired or obstructed be caused or endangered.
   (B)   Districts under 1907 Act. It shall be unlawful for any person, without
permission or authority from the Board of Directors of any protection district
in the county organized under an act of the legislature of this state entitled,
“An act providing for the organization and government of districts for the
protection of the lands of farming or other communities or neighborhoods within
this state from overflow or damage from the waters of any unnavigable stream,
watercourse, canyon or wash extending by, through or over such communities or
neighborhoods, and to provide for the acquisition of lands, rights-of way and
other property by purchase, gift or condemnation, and for extending,
straightening, locating, improving and maintaining the channels of such
streams, watercourses, canyons or washes, and confining said waters in such
channels and preventing the overflow thereof, and for the construction by such
districts of the necessary works for said purposes”, and approved February 23,
1907, and acts amendatory thereof, to dig in, into, upon or through any of the
works of any such districts or impair or remove any part of the levee or banks
or beds of any channel or obstruct any channel constituting a part of such
works whereby the strength, sufficiency or efficiency of such works or of such
levee, bank or channel may be impaired or endangered, and the protection of the
lands of farming or other communities or neighborhoods within such protection
districts from overflow or damage be prevented or endangered.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 6, passed 3-6-1990)
TITLE 8: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Chapter
   1.   BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION GENERALLY
   2.   ELECTRICAL CODE
   3.   PLUMBING AND SWIMMING POOL REGULATIONS
   4.   SANITARY SEWER COLLECTION SYSTEMS
   5.   MECHANICAL AND SOLAR ENERGY APPLIANCES
   6.   CALIFORNIA EXISTING BUILDINGS CODE
   7.   CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
   8.   OIL DRILLING AND PRODUCTION
***** CHAPTER 1: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION GENERALLY *****
Section
Subchapter 1. General Provisions
8-1-1   House numbering system
8-1-2   Violations
8-1-3   Board of Appeals
8-1-4   Fees
8-1-5   Administration
8-1-6—8-1-11   Reserved
Subchapter 2. 2025 California Building Code and Related Codes
8-1-12   Adoption of 2025 California Building Code and related codes
8-1-13   2025 California Building Code – Chapter 1, Scope and Administration,
amended
8-1-14   2025 California Building Code – Chapter 2, Definitions, amended
8-1-15   2025 California Building Code – Chapter 5, General Building Heights
and Areas, amended
8-1-16   Reserved
8-1-17   2025 California Building Code – Chapter 9, Fire Protection and Life
Safety Systems, amended
8-1-18   2025 California Building Code – Chapter 15, Roof Assemblies and Roof
Structures, amended
8-1-19   2025 California Building Code – Chapter 31, Special Construction,
amended
8-1-20—8-1-93   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Sign Code
8-1-94   Short title
8-1-95   Definitions
8-1-96   Permit required
8-1-97   Application for permit
8-1-98   Illuminated signs
8-1-99—8-1-103   Reserved
8-1-104   Issuance of permit
8-1-105   Conformance with plans
8-1-106   Fees generally
8-1-107   Double fees
8-1-108   Permit not to authorize violation of regulations
8-1-109—8-1-113   Reserved
8-1-114   Unsafe signs
8-1-115   Maintenance
8-1-116   Correction of violations; stop work orders
8-1-117   Reserved
8-1-118   Information to be posted on signs
8-1-119—8-1-123   Reserved
8-1-124   Fluorescent, mercury, vapor or high-voltage gaseous tube signs
8-1-125   Obstruction of doors, windows or fire escapes
8-1-126   Reserved
8-1-127   Reserved
8-1-128   Unlawful advertising
8-1-129—8-1-133   Reserved
8-1-134   Application for permit
8-1-135   Submission of plans
8-1-136   Form and contents of plans
8-1-137   Design standards
8-1-138   Construction specifications
8-1-139—8-1-143   Reserved
8-1-144   Projection and clearance
8-1-145   Ground signs
8-1-146   Wall signs
8-1-147   Roof signs
8-1-148   Combination signs
8-1-149—8-1-153   Reserved
8-1-154   Projecting signs
8-1-155   Nonconforming existing signs
8-1-156   Revocation of permit
8-1-157—8-1-166   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Reserved
8-1-167—8-1-177   Reserved
Subchapter 5. Tent Code
8-1-178   Tents
8-1-179—8-1-188   Reserved
Subchapter 6. Relocated Buildings Code
8-1-189   Adoption; permit
8-1-190—8-1-199   Reserved
Subchapter 7. International Property Maintenance Code
8-1-200   Adoption of International Property Maintenance Code
8-1-201—8-1-799   Reserved
Subchapter 8. Grading and Excavation Code
Article 1. General Provisions
8-1-800   Short title
8-1-801   Grading manual
8-1-802   Purpose of subchapter
8-1-803   Scope
Article 2. Definitions
8-1-804   Definitions
Article 3. Required Permits
8-1-805   Grading permit required; exceptions
8-1-806   Grading permit, paving
8-1-807   Grading permit, watercourse alteration
8-1-808   Grading permit, excavation blasting
8-1-809   Types of grading permits
Article 4. Administration and Enforcement Generally
8-1-810   Powers and duties of Building Official
8-1-811   Violations and penalties
8-1-812   Correction of hazardous conditions
8-1-813—8-1-814   Reserved
Article 5. Issuance of Permits and Conduct of Work
8-1-815   Permit required
8-1-816   Application for permit
8-1-817   Submission of plans
8-1-818   Form and contents of plans
8-1-819   Geotechnical engineering and engineering geology report
8-1-820   Issuance, expiration and renewal of permit
8-1-821   Denial of permit
8-1-822   Permitted hours for grading operations
8-1-823   Responsibilities of permittee
8-1-824   Protection of adjoining property
8-1-825   Import and export of earth material
Article 6. Fees
8-1-826   Grading plan - check fees
8-1-827   Grading permit fees
8-1-828   Cost recovery fees
Article 7. Security (bonds)
8-1-829   Security (bonds)
Article 8. Cuts
8-1-830   Cuts
Article 9. Fills
8-1-831   Fills
Article 10. Setbacks
8-1-832   Setbacks
Article 11. Drainage and Terracing
8-1-833   Drainage and terracing
Article 12. Asphalt Concrete Pavement
8-1-834   Asphalt concrete pavement
Article 13. Erosion and Sediment Control
8-1-835   Erosion and sediment control system
8-1-836   Erosion and sediment control plans
8-1-837   Erosion and sediment control maintenance
Article 14. Grading Inspection
8-1-838   Generally
8-1-839   Responsibilities of professional consultants
8-1-840   Notification of noncompliance
8-1-841   Transfer of responsibility for approval
8-1-842   Site inspection by Building Official
8-1-843   Special inspections
Article 15. Completion of Work
8-1-844   Final reports
8-1-845   Notification of completion
8-1-846—8-1-899   Reserved
Subchapter 9. California Residential Code
8-1-900   Chapter 2, Definitions, amended
8-1-901   Chapter 3, Building Planning, amended
8-1-902   Chapter 4, Foundations, amended
8-1-903   Chapter 9, Roof Assemblies, amended
8-1-904   Chapter 10, Chimneys and Fireplaces, amended
8-1-905—8-1-999   Reserved
Subchapter 10. California Green Building Standards Code
8-1-1000   Adoption
8-1-1000.1   Compliance with CALGreen recycling requirements
Subchapter 11. Small Residential Rooftop Solar Systems
8-1-1001   Purpose
8-1-1002   Applicability
8-1-1003   Definitions
8-1-1004   Solar energy system requirements
8-1-1005   Application and documents
8-1-1006   Permit review and inspection requirements
Subchapter 12. Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Permit
8-1-1007   Purpose
8-1-1008   Applicability
8-1-1009   Definitions
8-1-1010   Electric vehicle charging station system requirements
8-1-1011   Permit applications and submittal requirements
8-1-1012   Permit review and issuance
Subchapter 13. California Wildland-Urban Interface Code
8-1-1301   Adoption of the California Wildland-Urban Interface Code
Subchapter 14. California Energy Code
8-1-1401   Adoption of the California Energy Code
Cross-reference:
Earthwork for installation of sewers, see §§
8-4-243 et seq.
Health and sanitation, see Title 6
Hillside protection, see §
9-1-81
Moving of buildings or other structures, see §
7-4-702
Sand, gravel and mineral extraction, see §§
9-2-1 et seq.
Signs encroaching on right-of-way, see §
7-1-69
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 8-1-1 HOUSE NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   It shall be the duty of the Community Development Director to assign the
numbers to be allotted to all property along all roads, streets and highways in
the city in accordance with the provisions of the California Building Code and
the California Fire Code.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1) (Ord. 95-85, § 2, passed 11-21-1995; Ord. 2002-125, § 2,
passed 12-3-2002)
Cross-reference:
   Highways, rights-of-way and vehicles, see Title 7
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2013-174, § 2, adopted 12-3-2013, repealed the former Subchapter 1, §§
8-1-2 through 8-1-5, relative to general provisions, and enacted a new
Subchapter 1, §§ 8-1-2 through 8-1-5, to read as set out herein. The provisions
of former Subchapter 1 derived from Ord. 2008-151, § 2, adopted 2-19-2008 and
Ord. 2010-159, § 2, adopted 11-16-2010.
§ 8-1-2 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   For all sections of the California Building Code, California Fire
Code, California Plumbing Code, California Mechanical Code, California
Electrical Code, California Residential Code, California Green Buildings
Standard Code, California Administrative Code, California Referenced Standards,
California Energy Code, International Property Maintenance Code, International
Swimming Pool and Spa Code and Uniform Solar Energy Code, any and all
amendments to these codes, included within this chapter, the following shall
apply pertaining to violations and shall replace any sections of those codes
that pertain to violation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure in the city, or cause
the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such person
shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion
thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is
committed, continued or permitted, and, upon conviction of any such violation,
such persons shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500.00 or by
imprisonment for not more than six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) (Ord. 2013-174, § 2, passed 12-3-2013)
§ 8-1-3 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   For all sections of the California Building Code, California Fire
Code, California Plumbing Code, California Mechanical Code, California
Electrical Code, California Residential Code, California Green Buildings
Standard Code, California Administrative Code, California Referenced Standards,
California Energy Code, International Property Maintenance Code, International
Swimming Pool and Spa Code and Uniform Solar Energy Code, including any and all
amendments included within this chapter, the following shall apply pertaining
to Board of Appeals and shall replace any sections of those codes that pertain
to Board of Appeals.
   (B)   In order to determine the suitability of alternate materials and
methods of construction and provisions of these codes, there shall be and there
is hereby created a Board of Appeals, consisting of five members, composed of
the Mayor and the other members of the City Council. Said members shall hold
their respective membership on said Board of Appeals by reason of, and
concurrently with, their terms of service as Council members and shall cease to
be such members upon their ceasing to be such Council members. The Building
Official shall be the Secretary of the Board. The Board may adopt reasonable
rules and regulations for conducting its investigations and shall render all
its decisions and findings on contested matters, in writing to the Building
Official, with a duplicate copy thereof to any appellant or contestant affected
by any such decision or finding, and may recommend to the City Council such new
legislation, if any, as is consistent therewith.
   (C)   Three members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. The Mayor shall
be the presiding officer of the Board and, in the Mayor’s absence, the Mayor
Pro Tem shall preside. Meetings shall be conducted in accordance with the Brown
Act, being California Government Code, §§ 54950 through 54963, or as may be
amended.
   (D)   The Board shall have the right, subject to such limits as the City
Council may prescribe, by resolution, to employ at the cost and expense of the
city, such qualified individuals as the Board, in its discretion, may deem
reasonably necessary in order to assist it in its investigations and making its
findings and decisions.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3) (Ord. 2013-174, § 2, passed 12-3-2013)
§ 8-1-4 FEES.
   For all sections of the California Building Code, California Fire Code,
California Plumbing Code, California Mechanical Code, California Electrical
Code, California Residential Code, California Green Buildings Standard Code,
California Administrative Code, California Referenced Standards, California
Energy Code, International Property Maintenance Code, International Swimming
Pool and Spa Code and Uniform Solar Energy Code, including any and all
amendments included within this chapter, pertaining to fees are hereby amended
to read as follows: “All fees shall be as set forth by resolution of the City
Council”.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4) (Ord. 2013-174, § 2, passed 12-3-2013)
§ 8-1-5 ADMINISTRATION.
   All administrative sections of the California Building Code, California Fire
Code, California Plumbing Code, California Mechanical Code, California
Electrical Code, California Residential Code, California Green Buildings
Standard Code, California Administrative Code, California Referenced Standards,
California Energy Code, International Property Maintenance Code, International
Swimming Pool and Spa Code and Uniform Solar Energy Code are hereby deleted and
replaced by Chapter 1 of the 2022 California Building Code, as amended in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5) (Ord. 2013-174, § 2, passed 12-3-2013)
§§ 8-1-6—8-1-11 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. 2025 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE AND RELATED CODES ****
§ 8-1-12 ADOPTION OF 2025 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE AND RELATED CODES.
   (A)   For the purpose of prescribing regulations for the erecting,
construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, improving, removal, conversion,
demolition, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and maintenance of all
buildings and structures in the city, the City Council hereby adopts by
reference the following codes in their entirety subject to the amendments,
additions and deletions set forth hereinafter:
      (1)   2025 Edition of the California Building Code, based on the 2024
International Building Code as published by the International Code Council;
      (2)   2025 Edition of the California Residential Code, based on the 2024
International Residential Code as published by the International Code Council;
      (3)   2025 Edition of the California Green Building Standards Code as
published by the California Building Standards Commission;
      (4) 2024 Edition of the International Property Maintenance Code as
published by the International Code Council;
      (5)   2025 Edition of the California Electrical Code, based on the 2023
National Electrical Code as published by the National Fire Protection
Association;
      (6)    2025 Edition of the California Plumbing Code, based on the 2024
Uniform Plumbing Code as published by the International Association of Plumbing
and Mechanical Officials;
      (7)   2024 Edition of the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code as
published by the International Code Council;
      (8)   2025 Edition of the California Mechanical Code, based on the 2024
Uniform Mechanical Code as published by the International Association of
Plumbing and Mechanical Officials;
      (9)   2025 Edition of the California Administrative Code as published by
the International Code Council;
      (10)   2025 Edition of the California Wildland Urban Interface Code,
based on the 2024 International Wildland Urban Interface Code as published by
the International Code Council; and
      (11)    2025 Edition of the California Energy Code, based on the 2024
California Energy Code as published by the International Code Council.
   (B)   The provisions of these codes, as amended in this title, shall
constitute the building regulations of the city. The foregoing codes are on
file for public examination in the office of the Building Official. One copy of
the each of the codes adopted herein is filed in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 2, passed 12-2-2025)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2025-237, § 2, adopted 12-2-2025, repealed the former Subchapter 2, §§
8-1-12 through 8-1-19, and enacted a new Subchapter 2 as set out herein. The
former Subchapter 2 pertained to the 2022 Edition of the California Building
Code and derived from Ord. 2022-219, § 2, passed 11-15-2022.
§ 8-1-13 2025 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE – CHAPTER 1, SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION,
AMENDED.
   Chapter 1, Division II, Scope and Administration, is adopted in its entirety
with the following amendments:
   (A)   Section 104.8, “Liability”, is amended to include the following:
The provisions of this section shall apply if the Building Official or his/her
authorized representative are employees of this jurisdiction and shall also
apply if the Building Official or his/her authorized representative are acting
under contract as agents of this jurisdiction.
   (B)   Section 105.2, “Work Exempt from Permit”, is amended to revise Item
Nos. 2 and 9 and remove Item No. 4 as follows:
105.2. Work Exempt from Permit:
   2.   Walls, fences and/or gates less than 42 inches in height.
   4.   (Removed).
   9.   Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a Group R-3 occupancy that
are 18 inches deep or less, do not exceed 5,000 gallons and are installed
entirely above ground.
   (C)   Section 105.3.2.1, “Permit application time limits from code
enforcement action”, is hereby added as follows:
105.3.2.1 Permit application time limits from code enforcement action.
Applications for a permit for any proposed work submitted as the result of a
Code Enforcement written Notice of Violation for which no permit is issued
shall be deemed to have expired 60 days from the date of filing. The Building
Official is authorized to grant extensions of time for justifiable good cause.
The extension shall be requested by the owner or designee in writing and
justifiable cause demonstrated.
   (D)   Section 105.5, “Expiration”, is hereby amended to read as follows:
105.5 Expiration of building permit. Every permit issued shall become expired
unless the work on the site authorized by such permit is commenced within 12
months after its issuance unless the permittee has abandoned the work
authorized by the permit, or if the work authorized on the site by such permit
is suspended pursuant to Health & Safety Code (H&SC) Section 18938.5(b)(2)(C).
For the purpose of this section, the existence of circumstances or facts
leading the Building Official to conclude that the work has ceased with no
apparent intent to recommence, or otherwise that the work cannot be performed
shall be deemed to be abandonment of work as referenced in H&SC Section
18938.6. The Building Official is authorized to grant, in writing, one or more
extensions of time, for periods not more than 180 days each, subject to Section
105.5.2. As a condition of granting any permit extension, the Building Official
may require the payment of permit fees based on the remainder of work to be
completed. The Building Official shall not grant an extension unless the
permittee submits a written application and demonstrates that there is
justifiable cause for the extension requested in accordance with the findings
set forth in Section 105.5.2.
   (E)   Section 105.5.2, “Extensions of building permit”, is hereby added to
read as follows:
105.5.2 Extensions of building permit. Upon written request of the owner or
designee, the Building Official may grant one or more extensions of the period
for completion of construction, in writing, each for a period not to exceed 180
days. The written request must demonstrate justifiable cause for the extension
to the Building Official, who shall have the authority to make such a
determination that justifiable cause exists to grant the extension. The
Building Official shall not find that justifiable cause exists to grant the
extension unless the Building Official make all of the following findings: (1)
that due to circumstances beyond the owner’s or permittee’s control,
construction could not be completed within the time frame allowed by this
section; (2) that reasonable progress has been made; (3) that the condition of
the property presents no health or safety hazard; and (4) that the continued
delay will not create any unreasonable visual or physical detriment to the
neighborhood. Any request for extension shall be submitted not less than 15
days prior to the expiration date of the building permit. The Building Official
shall have the discretion to deny any extension requested, or to grant an
extension of less than 180 days based on the extension application.
   (F)   Section 105.8, “Maintenance of residential property during
remodeling”, is hereby added to read as follows:
105.8 Maintenance of residential property during remodeling. During remodeling,
all property shall be maintained in a reasonably clean and well-kept manner.
All lumber and building materials shall be neatly piled or stacked in a safe
manner and stored in the rear yard of the residential property or inside of the
building construction perimeter except that building materials may be stored in
a front yard for a period not to exceed 60 days. Properties shall be secured by
fencing when the Building Official determines fencing is necessary for public
safety and/or welfare.
   (G)   Section 105.9, “Reconstruction”, is hereby added to read as follows:
105.9 Reconstruction. If the value of the reconstruction (or renovations) of a
building is equal to or exceeds 75% of the current value of the building, the
entire building shall comply with the code provisions for new construction. The
value of the reconstruction (or renovation) for a property shall include the
value of all construction stemming from construction-related permits issued
within the last two years.
   (H)   Section 112.4, “Underground utilities required”, is added to read as
follows:
112.4. Underground utilities required. The Building Official shall, as a
condition precedent to the issuance of a building permit, require all utility
services located within the exterior boundary lines of a lot or parcel of
property to be installed underground if:
   1.   The property is to be developed with a new or relocated main building.
   2.   The remodeling, alteration or addition to an existing main building
exceeds 50% of the value or area of the existing building.
   3.   A residential building or use is converted to any nonresidential use or
purpose.
For purposes of this section, the term “main building” shall mean a building in
which is conducted the principal use of the lot or building site on which it is
located.
The owner or developer of the property is responsible for complying with the
requirements of this section and shall provide all necessary facilities on the
property to receive such service from the supplying utilities.
If it is determined that practical difficulties or unreasonable hardships
inconsistent with the purposes of this chapter and unique to a particular
parcel of property would result from the literal interpretation of this
section, the Building Official may waive, modify or delay the imposition of any
under-grounding requirement imposed pursuant to the section upon written
application of any affected property owner. If the Building Official determines
to delay the installation of required underground utilities, a recorded
agreement guaranteeing the future performance of the work may be required,
together with adequate performance security enforceable by the City in the form
of a cash deposit, bond letter of credit or other instrument satisfactory to
the City Attorney.
For purposes of this section, appurtenances and associated equipment, such as
but not limited to surface-mounted transformers, pedestal-mounted terminal
boxes and meter cabinets, and concealed ducts in an underground system, may be
placed above ground.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 2, passed 12-2-2025)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2025-237, § 2, adopted 12-2-2025, repealed the former Subchapter 2, §§
8-1-12 through 8-1-19, and enacted a new Subchapter 2 as set out herein. The
former Subchapter 2 pertained to the 2022 Edition of the California Building
Code and derived from Ord. 2022-219, § 2, passed 11-15-2022.
§ 8-1-14 2025 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE – CHAPTER 2, DEFINITIONS, AMENDED.
   Section 202, “General Definitions”, is hereby amended by adding “OCFA” and
“Spark Arrester” in alphabetical order, as follows:
OCFA. The Orange County Fire Authority which is the fire department/authority
having jurisdiction.
SPARK ARRESTER. A listed device constructed of noncombustible material
specifically for the purpose of meeting one of the following conditions:
   1.   Removing and retaining carbon and other flammable particles/debris from
the exhaust flow of an internal combustion engine in accordance with California
Vehicle Code Section 38366.
   2.   Fireplaces that burn solid fuel in accordance with California Building
Code Chapter 28.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 2, passed 12-2-2025)
§ 8-1-15 2025 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE – CHAPTER 5, GENERAL BUILDING HEIGHTS
AND AREAS, AMENDED.
   Section 502.1, “Address identification”, is hereby amended as follows:
502.1 Address identification. New and existing buildings shall be provided with
approved address identification. The address identification shall be legible
and placed in a position that is visible from the street or road fronting the
property. Address identification characters shall contrast with their
background. Address numbers shall be Arabic numbers or alphabetical letters.
Numbers shall not be spelled out. Each character shall be not less than 4
inches in height with a stroke width of not less than 0.5 inch. For commercial
and other occupancies the numbers shall be a minimum of 6 inches high with a
minimum stroke width of 1 inch. Where required by the fire code official,
address identification shall be provided in additional approved locations to
facilitate emergency response. Where access is by means of a private road and
the building address cannot be viewed from the public way, a monument, pole or
other sign or means shall be used to identify the structure. Address
identification shall be maintained.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 2, passed 12-2-2025)
§ 8-1-16 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-1-17 2025 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE – CHAPTER 9, FIRE PROTECTION AND LIFE
SAFETY SYSTEMS, AMENDED.
   (A)   Section 903.2, “Where required”, is hereby amended to read as follows:
903.2 Where required. Approved automatic sprinkler systems in buildings and
structures shall be provided when one of the following conditions exists:
   1.   New buildings: Notwithstanding any applicable provisions of Sections
903.2.1 through 903.2.21, an automatic fire sprinkler system shall also be
installed in all occupancies when the total building area exceeds 5,000 square
feet as defined in Section 202, regardless of fire areas or allowable area, or
is more than two stories in height.
Exception: Subject to approval by the Fire Code Official, open parking garages
in accordance with Section 406.5 of the California Building Code.
   2.   Existing Buildings: Notwithstanding any applicable provisions of this
code, an automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in an existing building
when an addition occurs and one of the following conditions exists:
      a.   When an addition is 33% or more of the existing building area, and
the resulting building area exceeds 5,000 square feet as defined in Section
202.
      b.   When an addition exceeds 2,000 square feet and the resulting
building area exceeds 5,000 square feet as defined in Section 202.
      c.   An additional story is added above the second floor regardless of
fire area or allowable area.
Exception: Additions to Group R-3 occupancies shall comply with Section
903.2.8.2.
   (B)   Section 903.2.8, “Group R”, is hereby amended to read as follows:
903.2.8 Group R. An automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with
Section 903.3 shall be provided throughout all buildings with a Group R fire
area as follows:
      1.   New Buildings: An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed
throughout all new buildings.
      2.   Existing Buildings: An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed
throughout when one of the following conditions exists:
         a.   When the floor area of alterations within any two-year period
exceeds 50% of gross floor area of the existing structure and the building
gross floor area exceeds 5,500 square feet.
         b.   When an existing Group R Occupancy is being substantially
renovated, and where the scope of the renovation is such that the Building Code
Official determines that the complexity of installing a sprinkler system would
be similar as in a new building.
   (C)   Section 903.3.5.3, “Hydraulically calculated systems”, is hereby added
as follows:
903.3.5.3 Hydraulically calculated systems. The design of hydraulically
calculated fire sprinkler systems shall not exceed 90% of the water supply
capacity.
Exception: When static pressure exceeds 100 pound per square inch (psi), and
when required by the Fire Code Official, the fire sprinkler system shall not
exceed the water supply capacity specified by Table 903.3.5.3.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 2, passed 12-2-2025)
§ 8-1-18 2025 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE – CHAPTER 15, ROOF ASSEMBLIES AND ROOF
STRUCTURES, AMENDED.
   (A)   Table 1505.1, “Minimum Roof Assembly Classification for Types of
Construction”, is amended to read as follows:
 
TABLE 1505.1
MINIMUM ROOF COVERING CLASSIFICATION FOR
TYPES OF CONSTRUCTION
IA IB IIA IIB IIIA IIIB IV VA VB
A  A  A   A   A    A    A  A  A
 
   (B)   Section 1505.1.2, “Roof Coverings within all other areas other than
Fire Hazard Severity Zones or a Wildland Urban Interface (WUI)”, is amended to
read as follows:
1505.1.2 Roof Coverings within all other areas other than Fire Hazard Severity
Zones or a Wildland Urban Interface (WUI). The entire roof covering of every
existing structure where more than 50% of the total roof area is replaced
within any one-year period, the entire roof covering of every new structure,
and any roof covering applied in the alteration, repair or replacement of the
roof of every existing structure, shall be a fire-retardant roof covering that
is at least Class A.
   (C)   Section 1505.5, “Nonclassified roofing”, is amended by deletion of the
entire section.
   (D)   Section 1505.7, “Requirements for roof coverings”, is amended by
deletion of the entire section.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 2, passed 12-2-2025)
§ 8-1-19 2025 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE – CHAPTER 31, SPECIAL CONSTRUCTION,
AMENDED.
   (A)   Section 115922(a) of § 3109.2, “California Swimming Pool Safety Act
(statewide)”, is hereby amended as follows:
115922(a)   Except as provided in Section 115925, when a building permit is
issued for the construction of a new swimming pool or spa or the remodeling of
an existing swimming pool or spa, at a private, single-family home the
respective swimming pool or spa shall be equipped with Item No. 1 and at least
one additional of the following seven drowning prevention safety features:
   1.   An enclosure that meets the requirements of Section 115923 and isolates
the swimming pool or spa from the private single-family home. Any walls of the
single-family structure or accessory structures used to complete the isolation
enclosure must have door openings equipped with protection as required in Item
No. 4 or No. 5. Any such door protection device provided for this purpose may
not be used to comply with the second drowning prevention feature.
   2.   Removable mesh pool fencing that meets American Society for Testing and
Materials (“ASTM”) Specifications F2286 standards in conjunction with a gate
that is self-closing and self-latching and can accommodate a key lockable
device.
   3.   A manually operated or power operated safety pool cover that is
accompanied by a label verifying that the cover meets the specifications of the
ASTM International F1346-23 standard.
   4.   Exit alarms on the private single-family home’s doors that provide
direct access to the swimming pool or spa without any intervening enclosure.
Whenever a door is opened or left ajar, exit alarms shall make either an
audible, continuous alarm sound or a repeating verbal warning, such as a
notification that “the door to the pool is open”. An exit alarm may be battery
operated or connected to the electrical wiring of the building.
   5.   A self-closing, self-latching device with a release mechanism placed no
lower than 54 inches (1372mm) above the floor on the private single-family
home’s doors providing direct access to the pool or spa.
   6.   An alarm that, when placed in a swimming pool or spa, will sound upon
detection of accidental or unauthorized entrance into the water. These pool
alarms shall meet and be independently certified to the ASTM Standard F2208
“Standard Safety Specification for Residential Pool Alarms” which includes
surface motion, pressure, sonar, laser and infrared type alarms. A swimming
protection alarm feature designed for individual use, including an alarm
attached to a child that sounds when the child exceeds a certain distance or
becomes submerged in water, is not a qualifying drowning safety prevention
feature.
   7.   Other means of protection, if the degree of protection afforded is
equal to or greater than that afforded by any of the features set forth above
and have been independently verified by an approved testing laboratory as
meeting standards for those devices established by the ASTM or the American
Society of Testing Mechanical Engineers (ASME).
Prior to the issuance of any final approval for the completion of permitted
construction or remodeling work, the local building code official shall inspect
the drowning safety prevention devices required by this act and if no
violations are found, shall give final approval.
   (B)   Section 3109.2.1, “Residential swimming pools”, is hereby added to
read as follows:
3109.2.1 Residential swimming pools.
3109.2.1.1 Disclosure statement. The owner of the property where the swimming
pool is located shall sign and file with the City, a disclosure statement
certifying the homeowner’s understanding of the potential life-safety hazards
associated with a swimming pool and the need to maintain the barrier
requirements set forth in Sections 3109.4.1.1 through 3109.4.1.9.
3109.2.1.2 Maintenance. Failure to maintain the barrier or comply with all
provisions of this section may result in an enforcement action by the City
requiring the immediate draining of the pool. The pool shall not be refilled
until such time compliance has been achieved with all provisions of this
section. All swimming pool water shall be maintained in a clear condition,
which is free of algae, insects, debris, and in a sanitary condition.
3109.2.1.3 Approval. Plaster inspection or approval to fill the pool with water
shall be withheld by the Building Official until there has been compliance with
all provisions of this article.
3109.2.1.4 Modifications. When there are practical difficulties involved in
carrying out the provisions of this section, the Building Official may grant
modifications for individual cases. The Building Official shall first find that
a special individual reason makes the strict letter of this section impractical
and that the modification is in conformance with the intent and purpose of this
section and that such modification does not lessen the degree of protection
afforded by the provisions of this section. The details of any action granting
modifications shall be recorded and entered into the files of the Community
Development Department, including the building permit file for the respective
property.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 2, passed 12-2-2025)
§§ 8-1-20—8-1-93 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. SIGN CODE ****
§ 8-1-94 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “sign code”.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-94) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-95 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERTISING SURFACE. The total area of the face of the structure, excluding
supports.
   BUILDING CODE. The adopted 2025 California Building Code and related codes.
   COMBINATION SIGN. Any sign incorporating any combination of the features of
ground, projecting and roof signs.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Community Development and their assistants and
deputies, and inspectors and officers of the Community Development Department.
   ELECTRIC SIGN. Any sign containing electrical wiring, but not including
signs illuminated by an exterior light source.
   ERECT. To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend or affix.
   GRADE. The elevation of the finished surface of the ground beneath an
advertising sign.
   GROUND SIGN. A sign supported by uprights or braces placed upon or into the
ground and detached from any building.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs or
an outline illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes as a part of the
sign proper.
   INCOMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL. Any material which will not ignite at or below a
temperature of 1,200°F during an exposure of five minutes, and which will not
continue to burn or glow at that temperature. Tests shall be made as specified
in the adopted 2025 California Building Code and related codes.
   NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE. The current National Electrical Code adopted by
the City Council.
   NONSTRUCTURAL TRIM. The molding, battens, caps, nailing strips, latticing,
cutouts or letters and walkways which are attached to the sign structure.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind whatsoever.
   PLASTIC MATERIALS. Materials made wholly or principally from standardized
plastics listed and described in the adopted 2025 California Building Code and
related codes.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign other than a wall sign suspended from or supported
by a building or structure and projecting outward therefrom.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AREA. A strip of land 20 feet in width and running parallel
with the street right-of-way.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign erected wholly upon or above the roof of a building or
structure, or upon or above canopies, marquees and similar overhangs.
   SIGN. Any structure, device or contrivance and all parts thereof which are
erected or used for advertising purposes upon or within which any poster, bill,
bulletin, printing, lettering, painting, device or other advertising of any
kind whatsoever is used, placed, posted, tacked, nailed, pasted or otherwise
fastened or affixed. This definition also includes electric signs. This
definition shall not be held to include, unless otherwise provided for in this
subchapter, any board, sign or surface used exclusively to display official
notices issued by any court officer or public officer or a private person in
giving legal notice; nor shall it be held to include a nonilluminated ground
sign, the advertising surface of which does not exceed six square feet and
which does not extend more than six feet above grade; nor shall it be held to
include a nonilluminated professional sign, such as used by a doctor, dentist
or similar professional person; provided the advertising surface of such
nonilluminated sign does not exceed six square feet and the sign extends not
more than six feet above grade.
   WALL SIGN. A sign attached to or erected on the exterior wall of a building
or structure with the exposed face of the sign in a plane approximately
parallel to the plane of the exterior wall.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-95) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Applicable related codes, see § 8-1-12
   Definitions generally, see § 1-1-18
§ 8-1-96 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall erect or maintain, or cause to be erected or
maintained, any advertising sign or add to an existing advertising sign or move
from one location and erect in another location or alter any advertising sign
or any part thereof without first obtaining a permit to do so from the
Director.
   (B)   The placing, attaching or superimposing of letters, figures or
representations in cutouts of irregular form during the change of advertising
copy shall not be considered a structural change for which a permit is
required; provided that such advertising sign has been first approved by the
Director as an advertising sign capable of receiving such cutouts. Approval of
such signs shall be contingent upon proof that the sign is so designed and
constructed as to adequately support the loads contributed by the cutouts or
irregular shapes.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-96) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-97 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for erection permits under this subchapter shall be made
on forms provided by the Director.
   (B)   The forms shall contain or have attached thereto such information as
the director may require to show full compliance with this subchapter and all
other applicable laws and ordinances of the city.
   (C)   Two copies of plans and specifications shall be submitted with the
application for a permit for each sign. Such plans shall show the method of
support and attachment, location, materials and colors to be used. Plans for
all roof signs and other signs, which, by reason of their height or
characteristics, make them subject to excessive stresses shall be accompanied
by structural computations showing that the structure is designed for dead load
and wind pressures, in any direction, in the amount required by this
subchapter. Sufficient data shall be submitted to show that the supporting
surfaces and other members of the existing building or structure to which a
sign is to be attached are in good condition and are adequate to support the
additional load imposed.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-97) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-98 ILLUMINATED SIGNS.
   The erection of a sign in which electrical wiring and connections are to be
used shall, as a condition precedent to the issuance of a sign permit, require
a separate electrical permit in compliance with the National Electrical Code.
Prior to erection, the sign shall be physically inspected by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-98) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-1-99—8-1-103 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-1-104 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   It shall be the duty of the Director to examine the plans and specifications
upon the filing of a sign permit application. If it shall appear that the
proposed sign is in compliance with this subchapter and other applicable codes
and ordinances of the city, they shall, upon receipt of the required fee, issue
the permit. Failure to complete work within 120 days after the date of issuance
shall make the permit null and void.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-104) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-105 CONFORMANCE WITH PLANS.
   When a permit is issued under this subchapter, the plans shall be stamped
with the Director’s approval. No changes, alterations or modifications shall be
made thereto. The sign structure shall be erected in conformity with the
approved plans unless authorization to modify is obtained from the Director and
the plans and records are so changed and noted.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-105) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-106 FEES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Permit fees. A fee as established by resolution of the City Council
shall be paid for each permit at time of issuance.
   (B)   Plan-check fees. A plan-checking fee shall be paid to the Director at
the time of submitting plans and specifications for checking. The plan-checking
fee shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Investigation fee. An investigation fee as established by resolution
of the City Council may be charged by the Director whenever any work for which
a permit is required by this subchapter has been commenced without first
obtaining such permit. This fee shall be paid and the investigation shall be
made prior to the issuance of any permit for such work. An investigation fee
may be charged for any investigation of a sign, work reports, certification or
any other related work requested by an owner or authorized agent of such owner.
   (D)   Reinspections.
      (1)   A reinspection fee may be assessed for each inspection or
reinspection when such portion of work for which inspection is called is not
complete or when corrections called for are not made.
      (2)   This division (D) is not to be interpreted as requiring
reinspection fees the first time a job is rejected for failure to comply with
the requirements of this subchapter, but as controlling the practice of calling
for inspections before the job is ready for such inspection or reinspection.
      (3)   Reinspection fees may be assessed when the permit card is not
properly posted on the work site or the approved plans are not readily
available to the inspector, for failure to provide access on the date for which
inspection is requested, or for deviating from plans requiring the approval of
the Director.
      (4)   To obtain a reinspection, the applicant shall file an application
therefor in writing upon a form furnished for that purpose and pay the
reinspection fee as established by resolution of the City Council.
      (5)   In instances where reinspection fees have been assessed, no
additional inspection of the work will be performed until the required fees
have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-106) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-107 DOUBLE FEES.
   Failure to obtain a sign permit prior to the erection of a sign shall
require the payment of a double fee; however, payment of the double fee shall
not relieve any person from fully complying with other provisions of this
subchapter, or from liability for the penalties prescribed in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-107) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-108 PERMIT NOT TO AUTHORIZE VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The issuance or granting of a sign permit shall not be deemed or construed
to be a permit for or an approval of any violation of any of the provisions of
this subchapter, and no sign permit presuming to give authority to violate or
cancel the provisions of this subchapter shall be valid except insofar as the
work or use which is authorized by the issuance of a sign permit is lawful.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-108) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-1-109—8-1-113 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-1-114 UNSAFE SIGNS.
   (A)   Inspection. The Director shall inspect, at such times as they deem
necessary, each sign regulated by this subchapter, for the purpose of
ascertaining whether the sign is secure or insecure and whether it is in need
of removal or repair.
   (B)   Abatement. If the Director shall find that any sign regulated in this
subchapter is unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the public, or has been
constructed, erected or maintained in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter, it shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal
in accordance with the procedure specified in the adopted 2025 California
Building Code and related codes, pertaining to unsafe buildings, nuisance,
notice, administrative hearing and appeal, as amended by the city.
   (C)   Summary removal. The Director may cause any sign which is an immediate
peril to persons or property to be removed summarily and without notice.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-114) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Applicable related codes, see §
8-1-12
§ 8-1-115 MAINTENANCE.
   No person owning or controlling an advertising sign shall fail to keep such
sign in a state of good repair at all times with all braces, bolts and clips
and the supporting frame free from deterioration, termite infestation, rot,
rust, loosening and in such condition that at all times it will withstand the
wind pressure specified in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-115) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-116 CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS; STOP WORK ORDERS.
   (A)   If, after inspection, any advertising sign or any portion thereof is
found to violate any provision of this subchapter, the corrections required
shall be made promptly and the sign shall be made to conform in all respects
and another call for final inspection shall be made.
   (B)   No person shall continue or proceed with any sign erection work in
violation of this subchapter or of any other code or ordinance regulating such
signs after receipt of any notice from the Community Development Department to
stop work. The work must be made to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter or other such codes or ordinances. Orders given by the Community
Development Department to make safe such sign must be complied with promptly.
Stop work notices and correction notices affixed to a sign by an authorized
representative of the Community Development Department while erection work on a
sign is in progress shall be considered as having been delivered to the
permittee.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-116) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-117 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-1-118 INFORMATION TO BE POSTED ON SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, own, control or maintain any sign which does
not have the name of such person and the sign permit number plainly and
permanently marked, painted or outlined on the sign in a conspicuous place.
   (B)   On all signs other than ground signs, the weight of the sign shall be
included in the information required in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-118) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-1-119—8-1-123 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-1-124 FLUORESCENT, MERCURY, VAPOR OR HIGH-VOLTAGE GASEOUS TUBE SIGNS.
   (A)   Each fluorescent, mercury, vapor or high-voltage gaseous tube (neon)
sign shall, in addition to the information required in §
8-1-118, be provided with a legible nameplate, which shall correctly state the
manufacturer’s name or trademark and the voltage, amperage, total watts and
power factor. All the types of signs mentioned in this section shall have
affixed Underwriters’ Laboratory labels or recognized testing laboratory
labels.
   (B)   Before delivery to the erection site, illuminated gaseous type signs
shall be inspected and approved by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-124) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-125 OBSTRUCTION OF DOORS, WINDOWS OR FIRE ESCAPES.
   No sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent free
ingress to or egress from any door, window or fire escape. No sign of any kind
shall be attached to a standpipe or fire escape.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-125) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-126 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-1-127 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-1-128 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit, post or display, or cause to
be exhibited, posted or displayed, upon any sign anything of an obscene matter,
as defined in California Penal Code, § 311.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-128) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-1-129—8-1-133 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-1-134 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   To obtain a permit under this subchapter, the applicant shall first file an
application therefor in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every
such application shall be accompanied by plans and specifications as required
in §
8-1-135.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-134) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-135 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   With each application for a sign permit, and when required by the Director
for enforcement of any provisions of this subchapter, two sets of plans and
specifications shall be submitted. The Director may require plans and
specifications to be prepared and designed by an engineer or architect licensed
by the state to practice as such.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-135) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-136 FORM AND CONTENTS OF PLANS.
   Plans and specifications shall be drawn to scale upon substantial paper or
cloth and shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and extent of
the work proposed and show in detail that it will conform to the provisions of
this subchapter and all relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-136) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-137 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   Signs and sign structures shall be designed and constructed to
resist wind and seismic forces as specified in this section. All bracing
systems shall be designed and constructed to transfer lateral forces to the
foundations. For signs on buildings, the dead and lateral loads shall be
transmitted through the structural frame of the building to the ground in such
manner as not to overstress any of the elements thereof.
      (2)   The overturning moment produced from lateral forces shall in no
case exceed two-thirds of the dead load resisting moment. Uplift due to
overturning shall be adequately resisted by proper anchorage to the ground or
to the structural frame of the building. The weight of earth superimposed over
footings may be used in determining the dead load resisting moment. Such earth
shall be carefully placed and thoroughly compacted.
   (B)   Resistance to wind pressure. Signs and sign structures shall be
designed to withstand the minimum horizontal pressures set forth in Table No. 1
below, allowing for wind from any direction. The wind pressures set forth in
Table No. 1 below are minimum values and may be adjusted by the Director for
areas subjected to higher wind pressures.
   (C)   Calculation of wind pressure. Signs and sign structures shall be
designed and constructed to withstand pressures acting upward normal to the
surface, equal to one and one-fourths times those specified for the
corresponding height zone in which the roof is located. The height is to be
taken as the mean height of the sign above grade and the pressure assumed on
the entire sign area.
TABLE NO. 1. WIND PRESSURES
FOR VARIOUS HEIGHT ZONES
ABOVE GRADE
TABLE NO. 1. WIND PRESSURES
FOR VARIOUS HEIGHT ZONES
ABOVE GRADE
Height Zone (feet) Wind Pressure Map Area
                   (pounds per square foot)
Less than 30       20
30 to 49           20
50 to 49           25
100 to 499         30
500 to 1,199       35
1,200 and over     40
 
   (D)   Seismic loads. Signs and sign structures shall be designed and
constructed to resist seismic forces as specified in the adopted 2025
California Building Code and related codes.
   (E)   Combined loads. Wind and seismic loads need not be combined in the
design of signs or sign structures; only that loading producing the larger
stresses need be used. Vertical design loads, except roof live loads, shall be
assumed to be acting simultaneously with the wind or seismic loads.
   (F)   Allowable stresses. The design of wood, concrete or steel members
shall conform to the requirements of the adopted 2025 California Building Code
and related codes. Loads, both vertical and horizontal, exerted on the soil
shall not produce stresses exceeding those specified in the adopted 2025
California Building Code and related codes. The working stresses of wire rope
and its fastenings shall not exceed 25% of the ultimate strength of the rope or
fasteners. Working stresses for wind or seismic loads combined with dead loads
may be increased as specified in the adopted 2025 California Building Code and
related codes.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-137) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Applicable related codes, see §
8-1-12
§ 8-1-138 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The supports for all signs or sign structures shall be
securely built, constructed and erected in conformance with the requirements of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Materials. Materials of construction for signs and sign structures
shall be of the quality and grade as specified for buildings in the adopted
2025 California Building Code and related codes. In all signs and sign
structures, the materials and details of construction shall, in the absence of
specified requirements, conform with the following.
      (1)   Structural steel shall be of such quality as to conform with the
adopted 2025 California Building Code and related codes. Secondary members in
contact with or directly supporting the display surface may be formed of light
gauge steel provided such members are designed in accordance with the
specifications of the design of light gauge steel as specified in the adopted
2025 California Building Code and related codes, and, in addition, shall be
galvanized. Secondary members, when formed integrally with the display surface,
shall be not less than no. 24 gauge in thickness. When not formed integrally
with the display surface, the minimum thickness of the secondary members shall
be no. 12 gauge. The minimum thickness of hot-rolled steel members furnishing
structural support for signs shall be one-fourths inch, or three-sixteenths
inch if galvanized. Steel pipes shall be of such quality as to conform with the
adopted 2025 California Building Code and related codes. Steel members may be
connected with one galvanized bolt provided the connection is adequate to
transfer the stresses in the members.
      (2)   Anchors and supports, when of wood and embedded in the soil or
within six inches of the soil, shall be pressure-treated with an approved
preservative. Such members shall be marked or branded by an approved agency.
   (C)   Use of combustible materials. Ground signs may be constructed of any
material meeting the requirements of this subchapter. Combination signs, roof
signs and projecting signs shall be constructed of incombustible materials,
except as provided in division (D) below. No combustible materials other than
approved plastics shall be used in the construction of electric signs.
   (D)   Nonstructural trim. Nonstructural trim may be of wood, metal, approved
plastics or any combination thereof.
   (E)   Anchorage.
      (1)   Members supporting unbraced signs shall be so proportioned that the
bearing loads imposed on the soil in either direction, horizontal or vertical
shall not exceed the safe values. Braced ground signs shall be anchored to
resist the specified wind or seismic load acting in any direction. Anchors and
supports shall be designed for safe bearing loads on the soil and for an
effective resistance to pull-out amounting to a force 25% greater than the
required resistance to overturning. Anchors and supports shall penetrate to a
depth below ground greater than that of the frost line.
      (2)   Portable ground signs supported by frames or posts rigidly attached
to the base shall be so proportioned that the weight and size of the base will
be adequate to resist the wind pressure specified in Table No. 1 above.
      (3)   Signs attached to masonry, concrete or steel shall be safely and
securely fastened thereto by means of metal anchors, bolts or approved
expansion screws of sufficient size and anchorage to support safely the loads
applied.
      (4)   No wooden blocks or plugs or anchors with wood used in connection
with screws or nails shall be considered proper anchorage, except in the case
of signs attached to wood framing.
      (5)   No anchor or support of any sign shall be connected to or supported
by a parapet wall, unless such wall is designed in accordance with the
requirements specified in the adopted 2025 California Building Code and related
codes for parapet walls.
   (F)   Display surfaces. Display surfaces in all types of signs may be made
of metal, glass or approved plastics, in accordance with the area limitations
set forth in Tables No. 2 and No. 3 below.
 
TABLE NO. 2. LIMITATIONS ON
APPROVED PLASTICS IN SIGNS
Area of Facing or Display Surface  Area Occupied or Covered by Plastics
(square feet)
100 or less                        100% of display surface area
                                   100 square feet plus 25% of the
Over 100 but less than 2,000       difference between 100 square feet and
                                   the area of the display surface
Over 2,000                         Not over 575 square feet
 
TABLE NO. 3. SIZE, THICKNESS AND TYPE OF GLASS PANELS IN SIGNS
Maximum Size of Exposed Glass Panel
Any Dimension (inches) Area (square inches) Minimum Thickness of Type of Glass
                                            Glass (inches)
Over 144               Over 3,600           1/4                  Wired
 
(Prior Code, § 8-1-138) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Applicable related codes, see §
8-1-2
§§ 8-1-139—8-1-143 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-1-144 PROJECTION AND CLEARANCE.
   Projection and clearance of signs over private property are not limited,
except that such signs projecting more than six inches from the face of a
building over private property used, or intended to be used, by the general
public shall have a minimum clearance of eight feet above the sidewalk or
grade. In no event, however, may a sign project closer than two feet to the
curb or street drain line.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-144) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-145 GROUND SIGNS.
   (A)   Definition. A ground sign is a sign supported by uprights or braces
placed upon or into the ground and detached from any building.
   (B)   Construction and design.
      (1)   All ground signs shall conform to the requirements of §§
8-1-134 through
8-1-138.
      (2)   All posts, anchors, bracing or any other support that enters into
or rests upon the grounds or set in concrete shall be treated with an approved
preservative.
   (C)   Condition of site. The immediate area surrounding the site of a ground
sign shall be maintained by the owner thereof in a clean, sanitary condition,
free from rubbish, weeds and all obnoxious substances.
   (D)   Removal. Any sign projecting into public property shall be moved,
without expense, to any public agency, if such moving is necessary because of
widening of a street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-145) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-146 WALL SIGNS.
   (A)   Definition. A wall sign is a sign attached to or erected on the
exterior wall of a building or structure with the exposed face of the sign in a
plane approximately parallel to the plane of the exterior wall.
   (B)   Construction and design.
      (1)   All wall signs shall conform to the requirements of §§
8-1-134 through
8-1-138.
      (2)   The surface or facing shall be of incombustible material; however,
combustible structural trim may be used.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-146) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-147 ROOF SIGNS.
   (A)   Definition. A roof sign is a sign erected wholly upon or above the
roof of a building or structure, or upon or above canopies, marquees and
similar overhangs.
   (B)   Construction and design. All roof signs shall conform to the
provisions of §§
8-1-134 through
8-1-138.
   (C)   Obstruction of roof openings. No roof sign shall be placed on a roof
so as to prevent free passage from one part of the roof to another, nor shall
it interfere with any skylight or similar roof openings.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-147) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-148 COMBINATION SIGNS.
   (A)   Definition. A combination sign is any sign incorporating any
combination of the features of ground, projecting and roof signs.
   (B)   Requirements. Each portion of a sign which is subject to more than one
classification shall meet the requirements for the classification to which such
portion is subject.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-148) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-1-149—8-1-153 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-1-154 PROJECTING SIGNS.
   (A)   Definition. A projecting sign is a sign, other than a wall sign,
suspended from or supported by a building or structure and projecting outward
therefrom.
   (B)   Construction and design. All projecting signs shall conform to the
requirements of §§
8-1-134 through
8-1-138.
   (C)   Projection and clearance. All projecting signs shall conform with the
provisions of §
8-1-144.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-154) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-155 NONCONFORMING EXISTING SIGNS.
   Every sign lawfully in existence on the adoption of this subchapter shall
not be repaired, altered or moved unless it is made to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-155) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-156 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   In addition to the penalty provided in this code for violation of the
provisions of this code, the Director is authorized to revoke any permit issued
under this subchapter upon failure of the holder thereof to comply with any
provision of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-156) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-1-157—8-1-166 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. RESERVED ****
§§ 8-1-167—8-1-177 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 5. TENT CODE ****
§ 8-1-178 TENTS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other section of this code, it is unlawful for any
person to erect, maintain, use or occupy any tent, lodge, shelter or structure
on public property, unless the tent, lodge, shelter or structure has two sides
open and there is an unobstructed view of the interior from the outside on at
least two sides.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY means any real property
or easement owned, operated or managed by the city.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to city-sponsored events.
§§ 8-1-179—8-1-188 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 6. RELOCATED BUILDINGS CODE ****
§ 8-1-189 ADOPTION; PERMIT.
   The relocated buildings code is hereby adopted by the City Council for the
purpose of prescribing regulations for the relocation of buildings and
structures.
   (A)   Compliance with applicable regulations. Buildings or structures moved
or relocated into or within the city shall comply with the provisions of this
subchapter and all other applicable city codes.
   (B)   Permit required. No building or structure shall be moved or relocated
unless and until a permit to relocate the building or structure has been issued
by the Building Official to the owner of the premises to which the building or
structure is proposed to be moved. Such permit shall be designated as a
relocation permit.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOND. A surety bond, cash bond, letter of credit or similar instrument
which, in the opinion of the Building Official, will comply with the intent of
this subchapter and will indemnify the city against any cost which may result
from the permittee’s failure to comply with all of the conditions attached to
the granting of a relocation permit.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Director of Community Development or their duly
authorized representative.
   (D)   Issuance of relocation permit; enforcement.
      (1)   Issuance of permit.
         (a)   Every application for a relocation permit shall be in writing
upon the forms furnished by the Building Official and shall set forth such
information that the Building Official may reasonably require in order to carry
out the purpose of this section.
         (b)   No permit shall be issued to relocate any building or structure
which is so constructed or in such condition that it does not conform to or
which cannot be repaired or reconstructed to conform to the requirements of the
city codes.
         (c)   If the unlawful, dangerous or defective condition of the
building or structure proposed to be relocated is such that remedy or
correction cannot practicably and effectively be made, in the judgment of the
Building Official, the permit shall be denied.
         (d)   The Building Official shall, in issuing any relocation permit,
impose such terms and conditions as may be necessary to ensure compliance with
the requirements of all applicable city codes. The terms and conditions upon
which each permit is granted shall be specified in writing in the permit or
attached thereto.
      (2)   Bond required.
         (a)   No relocation permit shall be issued, unless the applicant has
posted with the Building Official a bond, executed by the owner of the premises
where the building or structure is to be located, as principal, and by a surety
company or financial institution authorized to do business in this state, as
surety.
         (b)   The bond, which shall be in form joint and several, shall name
the city as obligee and shall be in an amount equal to the cost, plus 25%, of
the work required to be done in order to comply with all of the conditions of
such relocation permit as estimated by the Building Official. In lieu of a
surety bond, the applicant may post a bond executed by the owner, as principal,
and which is secured by a cash deposit in the amount named in this division (D)
(2)(b) and is conditioned as required in the case of a surety bond. Such a bond
is referred to as a cash bond for the purposes of this section.
         (c)   No bond, however, needs to be posted in any case where the
Building Official determines that the only relocation involved is that of
moving a building temporarily to the regularly occupied business premises of a
house mover or that of moving a building to adjacent property of the same
owner. The exceptions shall not apply unless the Building Official finds that
no such security is necessary in order to ensure compliance with the
requirements of this section.
      (3)   Conditions on bond. Every bond posted pursuant to this section
shall be conditioned as follows:
         (a)   That each and all of the terms and conditions of the relocation
permit shall be complied with to the satisfaction of the Building Official;
         (b)   That all of the work required to be done pursuant to the
conditions of the relocation permit shall be fully performed and completed
within the time specified in the relocation permit, or, if no time limit is
specified, within 120 days after the date of issuance of the permit; and
         (c)   The time limit specified in this division (D) or the time limit
specified in any permit may be extended for good and sufficient cause by the
Building Official. No such extension of time shall be valid, unless in writing,
and no such extension shall release any surety from any bond.
      (4)   Period and termination of bond.
         (a)   The term of each bond posted pursuant to this section shall
begin upon the date of the posting thereof and shall end upon the completion,
to the satisfaction of the Building Official, of the performance of all the
terms and conditions of the relocation permit. Such completion shall be
evidenced by a statement signed by the Building Official, a copy of which shall
be sent to the surety and to the principal.
         (b)   When a cash bond has been posted, the cash shall be returned to
the depositor or to the depositor’s successors or assigns upon the termination
of the bond, except any portion thereof that may have been used or deducted as
provided for in this section.
      (5)   Notice of default in performance of conditions.
         (a)   Whenever the Building Official shall find that a default has
occurred in the performance of any term or condition of any permit, written
notice thereof shall be given to the principal and to the surety on the bond.
         (b)   Such notice shall specify the work to be done, the estimated
cost thereof and the period of time deemed by the Building Official to be
reasonably necessary for the completion of such work.
         (c)   After receipt of such notice, the surety or the principal of a
bond must, within the time specified, cause the required work to be completed.
         (d)   Should the surety or the principal of a bond fail to cause the
work specified in the notice of default to be done within the time provided,
the Building Official shall set the matter for an administrative hearing.
      (6)   Default hearing and procedures.
         (a)   Inspection. The Building Official shall examine every building
or structure or portion thereof which is subject to the provisions of this
section and for which the permit has been found to be in default. The
inspection shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this code
and other applicable statutes and the ordinances, rules and regulations of the
city.
         (b)   Notice of default hearing.
            1.   The Building Official shall give notice, setting forth the
work to be done and the estimated cost thereof, to the surety, the owner of
such building or structure or other responsible person, or their authorized
representative (referred to in this section as the owner). The notice shall set
forth the right of the owner to be present at the hearing and to introduce such
relevant evidence on the issues as the owner desires. The notice shall also set
forth the requirements for commencement and completion of work and the effect
of failure to do so as set forth in this section. The notice shall set forth
the time and place of the hearing to be held before the Building Official. At
the time and place so specified, evidence shall be submitted as to the facts of
any such default as to reasonably determine whether the facts so established
constitute a default of any of the terms or conditions of the permit.
            2.   The notices required by this section served as specified in
this division (D) shall be deemed to be proper notice:
               a.   By delivering a copy to the owner, as designated on papers,
applications or permits on file with the Building Official, personally;
               b.   By leaving a copy with a person of legal age and discretion
at the owner’s designated place of residence or business and sending a copy by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owner’s designated place of
residence or business; or
               c.   If the owner’s place of residence or business cannot be
ascertained or a person of legal age or discretion cannot be found at either
place, then by affixing a copy in a conspicuous place on the building or
structure on the premises to which the building or structure has been relocated
and also delivering a copy to the person in charge, if any; and also sending a
copy by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner at the
place where the building or structure is situated, or to the owner’s last known
or designated address, or both.
         (c)   Administrative order. At the hearing and upon the determination
that there is a default, the Building Official shall determine if the building
or structure can be reasonably completed in compliance with all applicable
codes or if the building or structure should be removed, and shall order such
completion or removal and shall specify the time within which the work is to be
completed. The order shall also contain notice that, should the owner fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with the order, then the Building Official shall
cause the work to be done and the cost thereof will be levied against the bond
as specified in this section. The determination and order may be made orally at
the hearing and shall be written and transmitted to the owner within a
reasonable time. The determination and order shall become final within five
days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, from the time it is first
rendered, or, if the owner was not present at the hearing, within five days of
the mailing of the order to the last known address of the owner, whichever
first occurs.
         (d)   Appeal. The owner shall, if the owner desires to do so, at any
time prior to the determination and order becoming final as set forth in this
section, appeal the decision of the Building Official to the City Council,
which shall fix a time and place therefor and hold a hearing, and shall
thereupon make a determination and order affirming, reversing or modifying the
determination and order of the Building Official as the City Council may deem
proper. The order of the City Council shall be immediately final.
         (e)   Time limit for commencement and completion of work. The owner
shall, upon the expiration of five days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays, following the finality of the determination and order of the Building
Official, or, if appealed, the determination and order of the City Council,
commence the work ordered, and such work will be completed within the time
specified.
         (f)   Failure to commence work. If the owner neglects or fails to
commence, within the time provided, the corrective work deemed necessary and as
ordered, the owner shall pay over to the Building Official the estimated cost
of doing the work as set forth in the notice, plus an additional sum equal to
25% of the estimated cost. Upon receipt of such monies, the Building Official
shall proceed by such mode as they deem convenient to cause the required work
to be performed and completed, but no liability shall be incurred other than
for the expenditure of the monies received. If a cash bond has been posted and
if compliance is not obtained within the time specified, the Building Official
shall proceed, without delay and without further notice of proceedings
whatever, to use the cash deposit or any portion of such deposit to cause the
required work to be done. The balance, if any, of such cash deposit shall, upon
the completion of the work, be returned to the depositor or to the depositor’s
successors or assigns, after deducting the cost of the work, plus 25% thereof.
   (E)   Permit fees. Before any application for a relocation permit is
accepted for filing, the fees, as established by resolution of the City
Council, shall be paid by the applicant to cover the cost to the city of the
inspection of the condition of the building to be moved and the inspection of
the proposed new location. The inspection fee shall be in addition to the
building permit fee or any other fee or charge required by any other applicable
city ordinance or resolution of the City Council.
   (F)   Expiration of permit. If a relocation permit has not been issued
within 120 days after the applicant has been notified of the result of the
inspection, a new inspection fee shall be paid and the building shall be
reinspected before a relocation permit may be issued.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-189) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-190—8-1-199 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 7. INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ****
§ 8-1-200 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   As adopted in §
8-1-12, there is hereby designated by the City Council, for the purpose of
prescribing minimum maintenance standards for basic equipment, light,
ventilation, heating, sanitation and fire safety, that certain code known as
International Property Maintenance Code, 2024 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 5, passed 12-2-2025)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2025-237, § 5, adopted 12-2-2025, repealed the former Subchapter 7, §
8-1-200, and enacted a new Subchapter 7 as set out herein. The former
Subchapter 7 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. 2022-
219, § 5, passed 11-15-2022.
§§ 8-1-201—8-1-799 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 8. GRADING AND EXCAVATION CODE ****
**** ARTICLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 8-1-800 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “grading and
excavation code”. The term “code”, as used in this subchapter, unless the
context clearly indicates otherwise, shall mean the grading and excavation
code.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-800) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-801 GRADING MANUAL.
   (A)   The Director shall formulate and modify as necessary such rules,
procedures and interpretations as may be necessary or convenient to administer
this subchapter. Such rules, procedures and interpretations shall be referred
to as the City Grading Manual or the Grading Manual.
   (B)   The Grading Manual shall include provisions to assure that the water
quality requirements relevant to activities subject to this subchapter apply to
all activities.
   (C)   In the event of any conflict between the grading manual and this
subchapter, the provisions of this subchapter shall govern. The provisions of
the grading manual shall, to the extent that they are made conditions of any
permit by the Building Official, be binding on the permittee.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-801) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 2,
passed 2-18-2003)
§ 8-1-802 PURPOSE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to safeguard life, limb, property and
the public welfare by regulating grading on private property in the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-802) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-803 SCOPE.
   This subchapter sets forth rules and regulations to control excavation,
grading and earthwork construction, including fills and embankments, site
drainage and relevant water quality requirements, and establishes
administrative requirements for issuance of permits and approvals of plans and
inspection of grading construction in accordance with the requirements for
grading and excavation as contained in the California Building Code then in
effect as adopted and modified by city ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-803) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 3,
passed 2-18-2003)
**** ARTICLE 2. DEFINITIONS ****
§ 8-1-804 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVAL. A written engineering or geological opinion by the responsible
engineer, geologist of record or responsible principal of the engineering
company concerning the progress and completion of the work, unless it
specifically refers to the Building Official.
   APPROVED PLANS. The current grading plans which bear the stamp of approval
of the Building Official.
   APPROVED TESTING AGENCY. A facility whose testing operations are controlled
and monitored by a registered civil engineer and which is equipped to perform
and certify the tests required by this subchapter or the grading manual, as
determined by the Building Official. This determination may be appealed to the
City Council.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to
prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, erosion and sediment control
systems and practices to control site runoff, spills or leaks, and drainage
from raw materials storage.
   BORROW. Earth material acquired from an off-site location for use in grading
on a site.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Director of Community Development or their duly
delegated representative.
   CIVIL ENGINEER. A professional engineer registered in the state to practice
in the field of civil engineering.
   CIVIL ENGINEERING. The application of the knowledge of the forces of nature,
the principles of mechanics and the properties of materials for the evaluation,
design and construction of civil work for the beneficial uses of humankind.
   CLEARING, BRUSHING and GRUBBING. The removal of vegetation, including grass,
brush, trees and similar plant types, by mechanical means.
   COMMERCIAL COACH. A vehicle with or without motive power, designed and
equipped for human occupancy for industrial, professional or commercial
purposes, and shall include a trailer coach.
   COMPACTION. The densification of a fill by mechanical means.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Community Development.
   EARTH MATERIAL. Any rock, natural soil or fill, or any combination thereof.
   ENGINEERING GEOLOGIST. A geologist certified in the state to practice
engineering geology.
   ENGINEERING GEOLOGY. The application of geologic knowledge and principles in
the investigation and evaluation of naturally occurring rock and soil for use
in the design of civil works.
   EROSION. The wearing away of the ground surface as a result of the movement
of wind, water or ice.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL SYSTEM. A combination of desilting facilities
and erosion protection, including effective planting, to protect adjacent
private property, watercourses, public facilities and receiving waters from an
abnormal deposition of sediment or dust.
   EXCAVATION. The mechanical or physical removal of earth material.
   FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER/SOIL ENGINEER. A civil engineer with education,
training and experience in soil mechanics and geotechnical engineering who
specializes in the practice of geotechnical, soils and foundation engineering.
A GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER may use the title geotechnical engineer (GE) if they
have passed the GE examination. For the purposes of this code, the terms
GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER and SOIL ENGINEER are interchangeable.
   GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING/SOIL ENGINEERING. The application of the principles
of soil mechanics in the investigation, evaluation and design of civil works
involving the use of earth materials and the inspection and testing of the
construction thereof.
   GRADE. The vertical location of the ground surface.
      (1)   EXISTING GRADE. The ground surface prior to grading.
      (2)   FINISH GRADE. The final grade of the site which conforms to the
approved plan.
      (3)   NATURAL GRADE. The ground surface unaltered by artificial means.
      (4)   ROUGH GRADE. The stage at which the grade approximately conforms to
the approved plan.
   GRADING. Any excavating or filling or combination thereof.
   GRADING MANUAL or CITY GRADING MANUAL. The rules, procedures and
interpretations described in §
8-1-801.
   GRADING CONTRACTOR. A contractor licensed and regulated by the state who
specializes in grading work or is otherwise licensed to do grading work.
   GRADING PERMIT. An official document or certificate issued by the Building
Official authorizing grading activity as specified by approved plans and
specifications.
   HILLSIDE SITE. A site which entails cut or fill grading of three feet or
more in vertical height below or above natural ground, site with a fill-over-
cut slope of five feet or more in vertical height or a site where the existing
grade is 20% or greater. Additionally, it includes a site that may be adversely
affected by drainage or stability conditions within or from outside the site,
or which may cause an adverse effect on adjacent property.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, designed
and equipped to contain not more than two dwelling units to be used with or
without a foundation system. The term MOBILE HOME does not include recreational
vehicle, commercial coach or factory-built housing.
   OWNER. Any person, agency, firm or corporation having a legal or equitable
interest in a given real property.
   PRECISE GRADING PERMIT. A permit that is issued on the basis of approved
plans which show the precise structure location, the finish elevations and all
on-site improvements.
   RAINY SEASON. Predetermined by the Building Official and at the time of this
printing is established from October 1 through April 30 of each year.
   REFERENCES TO PROFESSIONAL PERSONS. Unless indicated otherwise, or as
reasonably appears from the context, references in this subchapter to the civil
engineer, the geotechnical engineer, the geologist and the engineering
geologist refer to the professional person preparing, signing or approving the
project plans and specifications which compose the approved grading plan, and
which professional person appears of record, pursuant to §§
8-1-815 through
8-1-820, or their successor appearing, pursuant to §
8-1-841, pertaining to transfer of responsibility for approval.
   ROUGH GRADING PERMIT. A permit that is issued on the basis of approved plans
which need not show a structure location but must show interim building pad
drainage to the degree required by the Building Official.
   SEDIMENT. Earth material deposited by water or wind.
   SITE. Any lot or parcel of land or contiguous combination thereof, under the
same ownership, where grading is performed or permitted.
   SLOPE. An included ground surface, the inclination of which is expressed as
a ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance.
   SOIL. Naturally occurring surficial deposits overlying bedrock.
   SPECIAL INSPECTOR. An inspector duly licensed by the Building Official to
perform inspection of asphalt concrete placement and related construction work
or other grading-related work approved by the Building Official.
   STORMWATER PERMITS. Any permits issued by a local, state or federal
regulatory agency regulating stormwater flow over and from any project subject
to this subchapter, including, but not limited to, national pollution discharge
elimination system (NPDES) permit and state general permits, as defined in §
6-3-403.
   TERRACE. A relatively level step constructed in the face of a graded slope
surface for drainage and maintenance purposes.
   WATER QUALITY REQUIREMENTS. The requirements relevant to activities that are
subject to this subchapter found in the Stormwater Quality Control Ordinance
(Title 6, Chapter 3, Subchapter 5), the Drainage Area Master Plan (DAMP),
including all appendices and guidance documents included in the DAMP, any
applicable water quality management plans, as well as requirements relevant to
the activities that are subject to this subchapter found in stormwater permits.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-804) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 4,
passed 2-18-2003)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see § 1-1-18
**** ARTICLE 3. REQUIRED PERMITS ****
§ 8-1-805 GRADING PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct any grading, clearing, brushing or grubbing on
natural or existing grade that is preparatory to grading, without first having
obtained a grading permit from the Building Official.
   (B)   Exceptions to this requirement are as follows or as otherwise
determined by the Building Official:
      (1)   An excavation below finished grade for basements and footings of a
building, mobile home, retaining wall or other structure authorized by a valid
building permit or construction permit. This shall not exempt any fill made
with the material from such excavation nor exempt any excavation having an
unsupported height greater than five feet after the completion of such
structure. This shall not prohibit a minimum-fee grading permit or soil or
geologic report from being required for foundation design and inspection
purposes when, in the opinion of the Building Official, stability or flooding
considerations warrant such inspection;
      (2)   Cemetery graves;
      (3)   Refuse disposal sites controlled by other regulations;
      (4)   Earthwork construction regulated by the federal, state, county or
city government, or by any local agency, as defined by California Government
Code, §§ 53090 through 53095 (special districts); or pipeline or conduit
excavation and backfill conducted by local agencies or public utilities; or
earthwork construction performed by railway companies on their operating
property. This exemption, however, shall apply only when the earthwork
construction takes place on the property or dedicated rights-of-way or
easements of such agencies;
      (5)   Excavation and backfill for installation of underground utilities
by public utilities or companies operating under the authority of a franchise
or public property encroachment permit;
      (6)   Mining, quarrying, excavating, processing or stockpiling of rock,
sand, gravel, aggregate or clay where established and provided for by law;
provided such operations do not affect the lateral support or increase the
stresses in or pressures upon any adjacent or contiguous property;
      (7)   Exploratory excavations under the direction of geotechnical
engineers or engineering geologists; provided all excavations are properly
backfilled. All such excavations and trenches are subject to the California
Department of Industrial Relations, Cal/OSHA - Title 8 regulations, Chapter 4,
Division of Industrial Safety, §§ 450 through 8618;
      (8)   An excavation which does not exceed 50 cubic yards on any one site
and which:
         (a)   Is less than two feet in vertical depth; or
         (b)   Does not create a cut slope greater than four feet in vertical
height and a slope face no steeper than two horizontal feet to one vertical;
      (9)   A fill which does not exceed 50 cubic yards on any one site and
which:
         (a)   Is less than one foot in depth placed on grade with a slope
flatter than five horizontal feet to one vertical and does not obstruct a
drainage course; or
         (b)   Is less than three feet in depth and on flat ground, not
intended to support structures or mobile homes and does not obstruct a drainage
course; and
      (11)   Grading in conjunction with work performed pursuant to the
provisions of Title 8, Chapter 8, Subchapter 1 (the city oil code) of this
municipal code, unless the Building Official determines it is necessary to
obtain a grading permit to ensure proper construction of a building or other
structure, or where it is necessary for the protection of adjacent properties
not devoted to oil drilling or production.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-805) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 5,
passed 2-18-2003)
§ 8-1-806 GRADING PERMIT, PAVING.
   No person shall construct pavement surfacing in excess of 3,000 square feet
on natural or existing grade for the purpose of a private road or commercial,
industrial or multi-residential parking lot or travelway without a valid
grading permit, unless waived by the Building Official or unless a separate
improvement plan for such paving is approved and signed by an authorized city
official. Resurfacing or maintenance of paved surfaces shall be exempt from
this requirement.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-806) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-807 GRADING PERMIT, WATERCOURSE ALTERATION.
   No person shall alter an existing water course, channel or revetment by
excavating or placing fill, rock protection or structural improvements without
a valid grading permit, unless waived by the Building Official or performed as
interim protection under emergency flood-fighting conditions.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-807) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 6,
passed 2-18-2003)
§ 8-1-808 GRADING PERMIT, EXCAVATION BLASTING.
   No person shall possess, store, sell, transport or use explosives and
blasting agents to do any excavation without a permit from the Fire Department
and a valid grading permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-808) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Fire protection and explosives, see §
11-3-1 et seq.
§ 8-1-809 TYPES OF GRADING PERMITS.
   (A)   Either a rough grading permit or a precise grading permit may be
issued for grading work upon completion of an application in accordance with
Subarticle 5 of the Grading Manual and approval by the Building Official. The
rough or precise grading permit is the option of the permittee provided that
the plans satisfy the requirements of Subarticle 5 of the Grading Manual.
   (B)   Building permits may be issued for a site graded under a valid precise
grading permit upon completion and approval of rough grade inspection as
specified in §
8-1-842(E), pertaining to site inspection by the Building Official.
   (C)   Building permits shall not be issued for a site graded under a rough
grading permit until a new precise grading permit has been issued and the
provisions of division (B) above have been satisfied, or the precise grading
permit has been deemed by the Building Official to be unnecessary.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-809) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
**** ARTICLE 4. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT GENERALLY ****
§ 8-1-810 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Generally. The provisions of § 104 of the California Building Code,
pertaining to powers and duties of the Building Official, shall apply to
grading construction work. This authority extends to grading activities for
which a permit is required under this subchapter, regardless of whether a
permit has been issued or applied for.
   (B)   Enter and inspect. The Building Official is authorized to enter,
monitor, inspect, take measurements, review and copy records and require
regular reports from any site where activities are occurring that warrant a
permit pursuant to this subchapter. Such authority exists even if no permit has
been issued or applied for such activity.
   (C)   Stop or correct work orders. Whenever any building or grading work is
being done contrary to the provisions of this subchapter or the grading permit,
the Building Official may order the work stopped or corrected by notice in
writing served on any persons engaged in doing such work or causing such work
to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop or correct such work
until authorized by the Building Official to proceed with the work.
   (D)   Whenever any building or grading work is being done contrary to the
provisions of the water quality requirements related to activities subject to
this subchapter, in addition to the powers and duties specified in divisions
(A), (B) and (C) above, the Building Official may utilize any enforcement
provision specified in §
6-3-407.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-810) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 7,
passed 2-18-2003)
§ 8-1-811 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do grading in the city, or
cause such work to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The issuance of a grading permit, building permit, performance of
building permit inspections or issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy
may be withheld, stayed or revoked for property on which a violation of the
provisions of this subchapter exist(s), including work performed not in
accordance with approved grading plans, until such violation has been corrected
to the satisfaction of the Building Official.
   (C)   No tentative tract map or parcel map shall be approved for property on
which a violation of the provisions of this subchapter exists, including work
performed not in accordance with approved grading plans, unless conditioned to
require such violation to be corrected or mitigated to the satisfaction of the
Building Official prior to recordation.
   (D)   No zone change or discretionary permit per the city zoning regulations
shall be approved for property on which a violation of the provisions of this
subchapter exists, including work performed not in accordance with approved
grading plans, unless conditioned to require such violation to be corrected or
mitigated to the satisfaction of the Building Official prior to the issuance of
any building permits.
   (E)   Failure to comply with stormwater related provisions of a city-issued
grading permit or of a grading plan prepared to secure such a permit is also a
violation of this subchapter.
   (F)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a violation may
be prosecuted as an administrative civil action pursuant to this code. Each
such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day
or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this
subchapter is committed, continued or permitted. If prosecuted as a
misdemeanor, upon conviction of any such violation, such person shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment for not more
than six months, or by both fine and imprisonment. In addition to any such fine
or imprisonment, the court may also require such party to correct or mitigate
the grading violation to the satisfaction of the Building Official.
   (G)   This subchapter may also be enforced by injunctive relief, including,
but not limited to, temporary restraining orders and preliminary and permanent
injunctions issued by the Superior Court upon suit by the city.
   (H)   In addition to the provisions of division (G) above, a notice of
violation of this subchapter may be recorded against the property in accordance
with the following procedures.
      (1)   Notice of intent. A written notice of intent to record a notice of
violation shall be served on the current owner of record of the property. Such
notice shall describe the property, the violation and the action necessary to
correct or mitigate the violation. The notice shall inform the owner that a
notice of violation will be recorded if the owner does not, within 20 days of
receipt thereof, either correct the violation or request a meeting with the
Building Official as set forth below. The notice shall include a copy of this
division (H) and be substantially as follows.
“Notice of Continuing Violation of the City of Laguna Niguel Grading and
Excavation Code.
Notice is hereby given that the City of Laguna Niguel has determined a
violation of the above Code exists on the following described property
(description). The violation consists of (description).
While a violation of the above Code exists, the City of Laguna Niguel may
refuse to approve building or occupancy permits, subdivision maps, use permits,
and other discretionary permits and development approvals.”
      (2)   Correction of violation. If, within 20 days of receipt of a notice
of intent, the owner corrects the violation, no notice of violation shall be
recorded. The Building Official may grant extensions of time for good cause.
      (3)   Meeting. If the owner requests a meeting, the Building Official
shall schedule a meeting. Notice of the meeting shall be served on the owner
not less than 15 days prior thereto. At the meeting, the owner may be
represented by counsel and may present any relevant evidence that violations do
not exist.
      (4)   Decision, notice. Within 30 days following completion of the
meeting, the Building Official shall issue and serve on the owner their
determination as to whether or not a notice of violation will be recorded. This
determination shall be supported by appropriate findings on all material issues
raised at the meeting. The decision of the Building Official shall be final
with respect to recordation of a notice of violation, but shall not affect
other proceedings under this section.
      (5)   Recordation. If the Building Official determines that a notice will
be recorded, such notice shall be recorded 15 or more days after service of
notice of the decision.
      (6)   Release of notice. When a violation is corrected or mitigated to
the satisfaction of the Building Official, if a notice of violation had been
recorded, the Building Official shall cause a release to be recorded. The
release shall refer to the notice of violation and shall state that the
violation described therein has been corrected.
   (I)   All of the foregoing remedies shall be cumulative and not exclusive,
except when otherwise provided. Penalties and/or remedies under this chapter
are in addition to and do not supersede or limit any and all other remedies,
civil or criminal.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-811) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 8,
passed 2-18-2003)
§ 8-1-812 CORRECTION OF HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Definition. Hazardous conditions exist when the state of any natural
ground, natural slope, excavation, fill or drainage device, all of which exist
on private property, is a menace to life or limb or a danger to public safety,
or endangers or adversely affects the safety, usability or stability of
adjacent property, structures or public facilities.
   (B)   Authority of Building Official. The Building Official may examine, or
cause to be examined, every condition reported as hazardous as set forth in
division (A) above.
   (C)   Notice of hazardous condition. In any case where a hazardous condition
is found by the Building Official, they shall give notice, setting forth the
finding, to all owners of the property affected by the hazardous condition, the
authorized representative of the owner or a permittee under any active permit
which gives the permittee control of the property issued pursuant to this
subchapter (referred to in this section as the owner), of such required
corrective work. The notice may state the time and place of a hearing to be
held if the owner fails to comply with any demand for corrective work or
reports. The purpose of the hearing would be for the presentation of evidence
concerning the hazardous conditions and demand for corrective work or
submission of reports. The notice shall set forth the right of the owner to be
present at the hearing, at the owner’s option, and introduce such relevant
evidence on the issues as they desire. If the time and place of any hearing
scheduled for the presentation of evidence is not included in the initial
notice, it shall be included in a subsequent notice.
   (D)   Evidence. At the time and place so specified for the hearing, evidence
shall be submitted as to the facts of any condition as to reasonably establish
its existence, and the Building Official, or their designee, as hearing
officer, shall determine whether the facts presented reasonably establish the
existence of a hazardous condition to the satisfaction of the hearing officer.
Evidence may further be submitted as to the work or reports considered
necessary to correct or determine work to correct such hazard.
   (E)   Order, finality and appeal. If the hearing officer determines the
existence of a hazardous condition, they shall determine whether such hazards
are subject to corrective work or the need for more analysis through the
preparation of reports, and shall order such work or reports and specify a
completion time.
      (1)   Finality of order. The determination and order may be made orally
at the hearing, and shall be written and transmitted to the owner within a
reasonable time. The determination and order shall become final within five
days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, from the time it is first
rendered if the owner was not present at the hearing, or within five days of
the mailing of the order to the last known address of the owner.
      (2)   Appeal. An individual may, at any time prior to the determination
and order becoming final, appeal the decision of the hearing officer made in
regard to administration of this subchapter to the City Council. Appeals shall
be submitted in writing, filed with the City Clerk and must state the grounds
for the appeal. Fees for filing an appeal shall be in an amount as established
by resolution of the City Council. The decision of the City Council shall be
final. Upon receiving the appeal, the City Clerk shall schedule a time and
place for the appeal hearing. Notice of the hearing, including the time and
place, will be mailed to the appellant, property owner and the owner’s
authorized agent (if any) at least ten days before the hearing
   (F)   Completion of work. The owner shall, following the finality of the
determination and order of the hearing officer, or City Council (if appealed),
commence the corrective action ordered or preparation of reports, and such work
or submission shall be completed within the specified time.
   (G)   Failure to complete work.
      (1)   If the owner neglects or fails to complete the corrective work or
submit the reports ordered by the hearing officer or City Council (if appealed)
within the specified time, the Building Official may:
         (a)   Cause the work to be performed or reports to be prepared; or
         (b)   Advise the owner of the need for corrective work and warn them
that, in the absence of such corrective work, subsequent future hazards may
occur which could result in an order to vacate the premises.
      (2)   Nothing in this division (G) shall be construed to limit the type
of remedy or relief which the Building Official may have under any other
provision of law.
   (H)   Costs. Costs incurred by the city to perform any corrective work or
prepare reports under division (G) above shall be charged to the owner. The
Building Official may apply to the City Council to cause the costs to be paid
and levied as a special assessment against the property and collected in a
manner provided for special assessments.
   (I)   Vacation of property.
      (1)   If necessary, the notice and order provided for in divisions (C) or
(E) above shall include the requirement that the property or a portion thereof
or adjacent sites be vacated within a specified time, in the interest of public
safety, pending the finality of any determination and order or completion of
corrective work.
      (2)   (a)   The Building Official shall cause the property to be posted
at conspicuous locations with a notice containing at least the following:
 
UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
DO NOT ENTER
Building Official, City of Laguna Niguel
Date Posted ________
 
 
         (b)   The posted notice may also contain the date, time and place of
the hearing and the name, address and telephone number of the office of the
Building Official of other office where additional information may be obtained.
Such posted notices shall remain posted until any necessary corrective work is
completed. Such posted notices shall not be removed without written permission
of the Building Official, and no person shall enter the property except for the
purpose of making the required corrections or preparing reports.
   (J)   Service of notices. The notices and order required by divisions (C)
and (E) above may be served either:
      (1)   By mailing a copy by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the owner’s address as designated on papers, applications or permits on file
with the Building Official;
      (2)   By personally delivering a copy to the owner’s address as
designated on papers, applications or permits on file with the Building
Official;
      (3)   If the owner is absent from their place of residence and from their
usual or designated place of business, by leaving a copy with some person of
suitable age and discretion at either place, and sending a copy by certified
mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner or authorized
representative at their place of residence; or
      (4)   If such place of residence and business cannot be ascertained, or a
person of suitable age or discretion there cannot be found, then by affixing a
copy in a conspicuous place on the property, building or structure and also
delivering a copy to a person there residing, if any, or to the person in
charge, if any; and also sending a copy by certified mail, return receipt
requested, addressed to the owner at the place where the property, building or
structure is situated, or to the owner at their last known or designated
address, or both.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-812) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-1-813, 8-1-814 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** ARTICLE 5. ISSUANCE OF PERMITS AND CONDUCT OF WORK ****
§ 8-1-815 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as exempted in §
8-1-805, pertaining to grading permits, no person shall conduct any grading or
clearing, brushing or grubbing on natural grade or existing grade that is
preparatory to grading, without first obtaining a grading permit from the
Building Official. A separate permit shall be required for each site and may
cover both excavations and fills.
   (B)   When such operations involve the extraction or relocation of more than
5,000 cubic yards, such operations are also subject to the approval of a site
development permit application. The total number of cubic yards shall be the
larger of cut, including any export, or fill, including any import.
   (C)   A site development permit is not required under the following
conditions:
      (1)   Grading and excavation conducted in compliance with a valid
building permit when limited to the area within the perimeter (footprint) of
the structure, e.g., basement/foundation;
      (2)   Emergency grading to correct damage resulting from recent acts of
nature, as determined by the Building Official; and
      (3)   Other exemptions as set forth in §
8-1-805.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-815) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-816 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   To obtain a grading permit, the applicant must first file an
application in writing on a form furnished by the Building Official. The permit
application shall be accompanied by information required by the Building
Official and as specified in Subarticle 5 of the Grading Manual. Each person
applying to the city for a grading or building permit for projects for which
compliance is required with a state general permit for discharges of stormwater
associated with construction activity (general construction permit) must submit
satisfactory proof to city that coverage under the general construction permit
has been obtained before the city shall issue any grading or building permit on
the construction project. Documents required under the general construction
permit shall be maintained on-site during grading and construction and shall be
made available upon the request of any city inspector. The project must also
comply with all activities required by the city’s stormwater and urban runoff
pollution control ordinance and local implementation plan (LIP), as defined in
§
6-3-403 . Each person applying to the city for a grading or building permit for
projects where compliance with the general construction permit is not required
must submit evidence that the grading project will be in compliance with the
provisions of all applicable stormwater permits, including, but not limited to,
the implementation of all applicable best management practices (BMPs), and in
compliance with all activities required by the city’s runoff water quality
control ordinance (§
6-3-402) and LIP.
   (B)   Applications for which no grading permit is issued within 180 days
following the date of application shall expire by limitation, and plans
submitted for checking may thereafter be returned to the applicant or destroyed
by the Building Official. The Building Official may extend the time for action
by the applicant up to two additional 180-day periods upon written request by
the applicant showing that circumstances beyond the control of the applicant
have prevented action from being taken. Extensions shall only be issued in 180-
day increments, and shall be approved by the Building Official. In order to
renew action for an application after expiration, the applicant shall resubmit
plans and pay a new plan-check fee.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-816) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 9,
passed 2-18-2003)
§ 8-1-817 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   (A)   Each application for a grading permit shall be accompanied by plans
and specifications and supporting data consisting of geotechnical engineering
and engineering geology reports, as specified in §
8-1-819, and plans and reports specified by the water quality code provisions,
the city’s LIP and any of its referenced documents.
   (B)   Grading plans and specifications shall be prepared and signed by a
civil engineer or authorized professional, unless otherwise approved by the
Building Official. The Building Official, prior to waiving this requirement,
shall consider the nature of the project, the presence of critical drainage or
geologic factors, the need for civil engineering design and control and state
law.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-817) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-818 FORM AND CONTENTS OF PLANS.
   Grading plans and specifications shall be prepared in accordance with the
grading requirements of Subarticle 14, pertaining to grading requirements, and
Subarticle 5 of the Grading Manual. Prior to submittal, applicable plans shall
be signed by the geotechnical engineer and engineering geologist, if
applicable, for conformance to their recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-818) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 10,
passed 2-18-2003)
§ 8-1-819 GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING AND ENGINEERING GEOLOGY REPORT.
   A geotechnical engineering and engineering geology report shall be required
for grading projects, unless otherwise waived by the Building Official. The
reports shall conform to guidelines presented in the grading manual and shall
include information appropriate for the site, including any information
required by the Building Official. Recommendations included in the reports and
approved by the Building Official shall be incorporated in the grading plans or
specifications.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-819) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-820 ISSUANCE, EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Every grading permit issued shall be valid for a period of two years
from the date of issuance.
   (B)   Every permit issued shall expire by limitation and become null and
void if the work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 180 days
from the date of such permit or if the work authorized by such permit is
suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of
180 days.
   (C)   The time limitations and provisions of §§ 105.5 and 105.5.1 of the
California Building Code, pertaining to permit issuance, as amended, are
applicable to grading permits, except as stated in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)
below.
      (1)   A permit issued under this section shall expire upon a change of
ownership if the grading work thereon, for which the permit was issued, has not
been completed, and a new permit shall be required for the completion of the
work. If the time limitations of divisions (A) and (B) above are not applicable
and if no changes have been made to the plans and specifications last submitted
to the Building Official, no change shall be made for the issuance of the new
permit under such circumstances. If, however, changes have been made to the
plans and specifications last submitted to the Building Official, fees based on
actual time and materials for necessary plan checking and processing shall be
charged to the permit applicant.
      (2)   The Building Official may extend the 180-day expiration time limit
on permits, not to exceed two successive periods of 180 days each, upon written
request by the applicant, showing that circumstances beyond the control of the
applicant have prevented action from being taken.
   (D)   The Building Official may require that grading operations and project
designs be modified if delays occur which incur weather-related problems not
considered at the time the permit was issued, and further subject to the
provisions of §
8-1-821, pertaining to denial of permit.
   (E)   (1)   If the permittee presents satisfactory reasons for failure to
continue or begin the work within the period specified in division (B) above,
the Building Official, upon receiving a written request, may grant an extension
of time as specified in division (C)(2) above without additional fees; provided
that:
         (a)   No changes have been made in the original plans and
specifications for such work;
         (b)   Suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one year; and
         (c)   A re-endorsement of the compliance of the plans with the
applicable regulations, by the Community Development Department, shall be
obtained.
      (2)   Such request for extensions must be submitted no later than the
sixtieth day following the date on which the permit would otherwise expire. If
the permittee fails to request an extension within the time provided, the
Building Official may renew the grading permit for a fee based on the actual
costs of time and materials; provided no changes have been made in the original
plans and specifications for such work.
   (F)   If the permittee is unable to complete the work by the end of a two-
year period, the Building Official may renew the grading permit on an annual
basis for a fee based on the actual costs of the time and materials; provided
no changes have been made on the original plans and specifications for such
work.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-820) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-43, § 3,
passed 8-20-1991; Ord. 2003-128, § 11, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 8-1-821 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Building Official shall not issue a grading permit in any case
where they find that the work as proposed by the applicant is liable to
constitute a hazard to property or result in the deposition of debris on any
public way or interfere with any existing drainage course. If it can be shown
to the satisfaction of the Building Official that the hazard can be essentially
eliminated by the construction of retaining structures, buttress fills or
drainage devices or by other means, the Building Official may issue the permit
with the condition that such work be performed.
   (B)   If, in the opinion of the Building Official, the land area for which
grading is proposed is subject to geological or flood hazard to the extent that
no reasonable amount of corrective work can eliminate or sufficiently reduce
the hazard to human life or property, the grading permit and the building
permits for habitable structures shall be denied.
   (C)   The Building Official may require plans and specifications to be
modified in order to mitigate anticipated adverse environmental effects of
proposed grading projects. They may, under circumstances where the significant
adverse environmental effects of a proposed grading project cannot be
mitigated, deny the issuance of a grading permit.
   (D)   The Building Official may require plans and specifications to be
modified in order to make them consistent with the city general plan, specific
plans, zoning code, water quality requirements or other rules, regulations or
conditions applicable to the project. The grading permit may be denied by the
Building Official if the proposed project cannot be designed in accordance with
these rules, regulations or conditions.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-821) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 12,
passed 2-18-2003)
§ 8-1-822 PERMITTED HOURS FOR GRADING OPERATIONS.
   Grading and equipment operations within one-half mile of a structure for
human occupancy shall not be conducted between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m., or on Sundays and federal holidays. The Building Official may, however,
permit grading or equipment operations during specific hours after 8:00 p.m. or
before 7:00 a.m. or on Sundays and federal holidays if they determine that such
operations are not detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the
inhabitants of such a structure. Permitted hours of operation may be shortened
by the Building Official’s finding of a previously unforeseen effect on the
health, safety or welfare of the surrounding community. However, no permit that
has been issued, and no provision of this section, shall be construed to be a
waiver of the applicability of the provisions set forth in Title 6, Chapter 6,
Subchapter 1, relating to noise control.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-822) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-823 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of permittee under this subchapter to
be knowledgeable of the conditions and restrictions of the grading permit as
outlined in applicable sections of this subchapter and the Grading Manual, and
as contained on the approved grading plans and in the approved geotechnical
engineering and geology reports. The permittee shall also be responsible to
maintain, in an obvious and accessible location on the site, a copy of the
grading plans bearing the stamp of approval by the Building Official.
   (B)   All grading permits, waivers or exemptions issued hereunder shall be
deemed to include the provisions that the permittee, the permittee’s agents,
contractors and employees shall carry out the proposed work in accordance with
the approved plans and specifications, where such approval is required, and in
accordance with any applicable water quality requirements prepared and
maintained pursuant to federal or state requirements or a city directive, and
in compliance with all requirements of the permit and this subchapter. Failure
to carry out the work in accordance with approved plans and specifications, the
applicable water quality requirements and in compliance with all requirements
of the permit and this subchapter shall be a violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-823) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 13,
passed 2-18-2003)
§ 8-1-824 PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY.
   Each adjacent owner is entitled to the lateral and subjacent support which
their land receives from the adjoining land, subject to the right of the owner
of the adjoining land to make proper and usual excavations on the land for
purposes of construction or improvement as provided by law. California Civil
Code, § 832 is contained in Appendix G of the Grading Manual.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-824) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-825 IMPORT AND EXPORT OF EARTH MATERIAL.
   Where an excess of 5,000 cubic yards of earth per project site is moved on
public roadways from or to the site of an earth grading operation, all of the
following requirements shall apply.
   (A)   Either water or dust palliative, or both, must be applied for the
alleviation or prevention of excessive dust resulting from the loading or
transportation of earth from or to the project site on public roadways. The
permittee shall be responsible for maintaining public rights-of-way used for
handling purposes in a condition free of dust, earth or debris attributed to
the grading operation.
   (B)   Loading and transportation of earth from or to the site must be
accomplished within the limitations established in §
8-1-822, pertaining to time of grading operations.
   (C)   Access roads to the premises shall be only at points designated on the
approved grading plan.
   (D)   The last 50 feet of the access road, as it approaches the intersection
with the public roadway, shall have a grade not to exceed 3%. There must be 300
feet of clear, unobstructed sight distance to the intersection from both the
public roadway and the access road. If the 300-foot sight distance cannot be
obtained, flaggers shall be posted.
   (E)   A stop sign conforming to the requirements of the California Vehicle
Code shall be posted at the entrance of the access road to the public roadway.
   (F)   An advance warning sign must be posted on the public roadway 400 feet
on either side of the access intersection, carrying the words “Truck Crossing”.
The sign shall be diamond shaped, with each side being 30 inches in length, and
shall have a yellow background, and the letters thereon shall be five inches in
height. The sign shall be placed six feet from the edge of the pavement and the
base of the sign shall be five feet above the pavement level. The advance
warning sign shall be covered or removed when the access intersection is not in
use.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-825) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
**** ARTICLE 6. FEES ****
§ 8-1-826 GRADING PLAN - CHECK FEES.
   Before accepting a grading permit application and plans and specifications
for checking, the Building Official shall collect a plan checking fee as
approved by resolution of the City Council and as provided in Subarticle 6 of
the Grading Manual.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-826) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-827 GRADING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   A fee for each grading permit shall be paid to the Building Official,
prior to issuance of a grading permit, as approved by resolution of the City
Council and as provided in Subarticle 6 of the Grading Manual.
   (B)   Failure to pay fees and obtain a permit before commencing work shall
be deemed a violation of this subchapter, except when it can be proven to the
satisfaction of the Building Official that an emergency existed which made it
impractical to first obtain the permit. A violation shall result in an
assessment of double permit fees for work done prior to permit issuance.
Payment of a double fee shall not relieve any person from fully complying with
the requirements of this subchapter, or from any other penalties prescribed in
this subchapter.
   (C)   Additional fees approved by resolution of the City Council and
contained in Subarticle 6 of the Grading Manual shall be paid as required to
the Building Official.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-827) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-828 COST RECOVERY FEES.
   If the Building Official performs emergency work on private property, they
shall charge the property owner all direct and indirect costs which are
necessary to complete the work to their satisfaction. In addition, the Building
Official may charge a mobilization cost equal to 10% of the cost for performing
the work.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-828) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
**** ARTICLE 7. SECURITY (BONDS) ****
§ 8-1-829 SECURITY (BONDS).
   (A)   Security (bond) required; waiver.
      (1)   A grading permit shall not be issued unless the permittee shall
first post with the Building Official an approved bond, or other approved
security, in a form and an amount specified in Subarticle 7 of the Grading
Manual. The bond or other security is required to ensure that the work, if not
completed in accordance with approved plans and specifications, will be
corrected to eliminate hazardous conditions and/or correct conditions that pose
a threat to environmental resources, including, but not limited to, a threat to
water quality.
      (2)   This requirement may be waived at the discretion of the Building
Official if they determine that:
         (a)   No hazardous situation is likely to occur as a result of
incomplete or improper grading;
         (b)   No adverse effect is likely to occur to subject property,
adjacent property or an existing or proposed structure thereon as a result of
incomplete or improper grading;
         (c)   No significant drainage, erosion, flooding or siltation problems
will exist as a result of incomplete or improper grading;
         (d)   No adverse geological or environmental impacts will occur as a
result of incomplete or improper grading; or
         (e)   No conditions of the permit warrant a financial guarantee or
ensure their satisfactory completion.
   (B)   Multiple projects. On developments where progressive individual
grading projects or several concurrent projects are being constructed by one
owner, a continuing (blanket) bond or single letter of credit which will cover
all such projects may be accepted and the amount determined by the Building
Official.
   (C)   Additional security. An additional security in an amount determined by
the Building Official may be required to ensure the completion of finish
grading under the permit as a condition of occupancy and energizing utilities.
A bond in an amount determined by the Building Official may be required for
permits involving temporary earthen stockpiles to ensure their timely removal.
   (D)   Failure to complete work. In the event of failure to comply with all
of the conditions and terms of the permit, the Building Official may order the
work authorized by the permit to be completed or put in a safe condition to
their satisfaction. The surety executing such bond or deposit shall continue to
be firmly bound under a continuing obligation for the payment of all necessary
costs and expenses that may be incurred or expended in causing any and all such
work to be done. In the case of a cash deposit, the deposit, or any unused
portion thereof, shall be refunded to the permittee.
   (E)   Default in performance of conditions.
      (1)   Whenever the Building Official finds or determines that a default
has occurred in the performance of any requirement of a condition of a permit,
written notice thereof shall be given to the principal and, when applicable, to
the surety on the bond. Such notice shall specify the work to be done, the
estimated cost thereof and the period of time deemed by the Building Official
to be reasonably necessary for the completion.
      (2)   After receipt of such notice, the surety shall, within the time
specified, cause or require the work to be performed, or, failing therein,
shall pay over to the Building Official the estimated cost of doing the work as
set forth in the notice. Upon receipt of such monies, the Building Official may
cause the required work to be performed and completed. The surety shall pay the
Building Official actual costs in excess of the estimated amount plus a
mobilization charge as specified in §
8-1-828, pertaining to cost recovery fees.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-829) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 14,
passed 2-18-2003)
**** ARTICLE 8. CUTS ****
§ 8-1-830 CUTS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise approved by the Building Official and recommended in
the approved geotechnical engineering report, cuts shall conform to Subarticle
8 of the Grading Manual. The provisions therein may be waived for minor cuts
not intended to support structures, upon written request by the applicant using
a form prescribed by the Building Official.
   (B)   Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical
unless otherwise recommended in the geotechnical engineering and engineering
geology report and approved by the Building Official. The slope of cut surfaces
shall be no steeper than is safe for the intended use.
   (C)   Following the final landscape planting (combination of ground cover,
shrubs and trees) of cut slopes, as approved by the city, except for written
order by the County Fire Authority, no person shall denude or destroy
vegetation on these slopes. The landscaped slope areas may only be cleared for
immediate construction or reconstruction purposes. Upon completion of
construction, all bare slope areas must be replanted to match the original
conditions.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-830) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 15,
passed 2-18-2003)
**** ARTICLE 9. FILLS ****
§ 8-1-831 FILLS.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise approved by the Building Official and
recommended in the approved geotechnical engineering report, fills shall
conform to Subarticle 9 of the Grading Manual.
      (2)   The provisions therein may be waived for minor fills not intended
to support structures upon written request by the applicant on a form
prescribed by the Building Official.
   (B)   The Building Official may require that the soil tests or testing be
performed by an approved testing laboratory.
   (C)   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical
unless otherwise recommended in the geotechnical engineering report and
approved by the Building Official. The slope of fill surfaces shall be no
steeper than is safe for the intended use.
   (D)   Following the final landscape planting (combination of ground cover,
shrubs and trees) of fill slopes, as approved by the city, except for written
order by the County Fire Authority, no person shall denude or destroy
vegetation on these slopes. The landscaped slope areas may only be cleared for
immediate construction or reconstruction purposes. Upon completion of
construction, all bare slope areas must be replanted to match the original
conditions.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-831) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
**** ARTICLE 10. SETBACKS ****
§ 8-1-832 SETBACKS.
   (A)   The setbacks and other restrictions specified by Subarticle 10 of the
Grading Manual are minimum and may be increased by the Building Official or by
the recommendation of a civil engineer, geotechnical engineer or engineering
geologist, if necessary for safety and stability or to prevent damage to
structures or adjacent properties from sediment deposition, erosion or water
runoff of the slopes or to provide access for slope and drainage structure
maintenance.
   (B)   The minimum setback may be reduced only in special circumstances where
stability is proven to the satisfaction of the Building Official by the
geotechnical engineer or engineering geologist and other factors are of primary
importance.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-832) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
**** ARTICLE 11. DRAINAGE AND TERRACING ****
§ 8-1-833 DRAINAGE AND TERRACING.
   Drainage facilities and terracing shall conform to the provisions of
Subarticle 11 of the Grading Manual unless otherwise approved by the Building
Official and delineated on the approved grading plan.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-833) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
**** ARTICLE 12. ASPHALT CONCRETE PAVEMENT ****
§ 8-1-834 ASPHALT CONCRETE PAVEMENT.
   (A)   Asphalt concrete pavement for surfacing of parking lots, private
streets or other similar use shall conform to the provisions of Subarticle 12
of the Grading Manual, unless otherwise approved by the Building Official.
   (B)   The site geotechnical engineer or special inspector shall inspect the
construction of asphalt paved areas and verify to the Building Official that
the work has been performed in compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-834) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
**** ARTICLE 13. EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL ****
§ 8-1-835 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   The faces of cut and fill slopes and the project site shall be
prepared and maintained to control against erosion in accordance with this
article and the applicable provisions of the drainage area master plan.
      (2)   Where cut slopes are not subject to erosion due to the erosion-
resistant character of the materials, such protection may be omitted upon
approval by the Building Official.
   (B)   (1)   An effective erosion and sediment control system, such as
desilting basins, check dams, riprap, best management practices (BMPs), water
requirements or other devices or methods, as approved by the Building Official,
shall be employed to control erosion and sediment and provide safety during the
rainy season from October 1 to April 30.
      (2)   During the dry season from May 1 to September 30, such devices
shall be employed to protect the exposed portions of the site within 48 hours
of a predicted storm event defined as a forecasted 50% chance of rain.
      (3)   All erosion and sediment control devices shall be on-site and ready
for installation when the five-day forecast exceeds a 50% chance of rain.
   (C)   No grading work in excess of 200 cubic yards will be allowed between
October 1 to April 30 on any single grading site under permit, unless an
erosion and sediment control system has been approved or waived by the Building
Official.
   (D)   (1)   Paved streets, sidewalks and other improvements shall be
maintained in a neat and clean condition free of loose soil, construction
debris and trash.
      (2)   Street sweeping or other equally effective means shall be used on a
regular basis to prevent storm flows from carrying sediment and debris outside
the project boundaries.
      (3)   Watering shall not be used to clean streets unless the water is
fully recovered prior to entering the city storm drain system and disposed of
properly into the sanitary sewer system or another approved location.
   (E)   The civil engineer or other qualified individual who prepared the
grading plan and designed the erosion and sediment control devices shall be
responsible for inspection and modification of the devices, as necessary,
during the rainy season. Significant modifications to erosion control shall be
approved by the Building Official.
   (F)   Desilting facilities shall be provided at drainage outlets from the
graded site.
   (G)   Desilting basins shall be designed to provide a minimum desilting
capacity equal to the current Community Development Department standards.
   (H)   Desilting basins shall be constructed around the perimeter of projects
whenever feasible when they provide improved maintenance access from paved
roads during wet weather.
   (I)   (1)   Desilting basins constructed of compacted earth shall be
compacted to a relative compaction of 90% of maximum density.
      (2)   A geotechnical engineering report, prepared by the geotechnical
engineer, which includes the type of field testing performed and the location
and results of testing shall be submitted to the Building Official for approval
upon completion of the desilting basins.
   (J)   (1)   Equipment and workers for emergency work shall be made available
at all times during the rainy season.
      (2)   Necessary materials shall be available on-site and stockpiled at
convenient locations to facilitate rapid construction of temporary devices when
rain is imminent.
   (K)   Slope stabilization must be used on all active slopes in preparation
for and during the rainy events, regardless of season and on all active and
inactive slopes during the rainy season.
   (L)   (1)   Erosion protection shall consist of effective planting of all
slopes in excess of five feet high unless otherwise approved by the Building
Official.
      (2)   Slopes exceeding 15 feet high may require an adequate sprinkler
system, as determined by the Building Official.
   (M)   City-approved protection for the slopes shall be installed as soon as
practicable, which may be prior to rough grade approval. Effective planting
shall be installed, fully germinated and effectively cover the required slopes
prior to final approval unless otherwise approved by the Building Official.
   (N)   The erosion control provisions shall take into account drainage
patterns during the current and future phases of grading throughout the rainy
season.
   (O)   All removable protective devices shown shall be in place at the end of
each working day when the five-day rain probability forecast exceeds 40%.
   (P)   Graded areas around the project perimeter must drain away from the
face of slopes at the conclusion of each working day.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-835) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 16,
passed 2-18-2003)
§ 8-1-836 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   Erosion and sediment control plans prepared in accordance with
Subarticle 13 of the Grading Manual shall be submitted to the Building Official
for approval by September 1 each year for projects under grading permits.
   (B)   The erosion and sediment control plan may be waived for grading
projects on single residential lot projects providing that an erosion and
sediment control system, meeting the approval of the Building Official, has
been installed, placed, planted or constructed before October 1.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-836) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 17,
passed 2-18-2003)
§ 8-1-837 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   After each rainstorm, silt and debris shall be removed from check
berms and desilting basins and the basins pumped dry. Slope protection measures
damaged by a rainstorm shall be immediately repaired.
   (B)   After each rainstorm, the performance of the erosion and sediment
control system shall be evaluated and revised and repaired as necessary.
   (C)   Devices shall not be moved or modified without the approval of the
Building Official.
   (D)   The contractor shall be responsible and shall take necessary
precautions to prevent public trespass onto areas where impounded water creates
a hazardous condition.
   (E)   (1)   The contractor and permittee or project owner shall be
responsible for continual maintenance of the devices.
      (2)   In the event of failure or refusal by the contractor, permittee or
project owner to properly maintain the devices, the Building Official may cause
emergency maintenance work to be done to protect adjacent private and public
property and environmental resources.
      (3)   The cost shall be charged to the owner and shall include an initial
mobilization cost plus the cost of doing the work as contained in Subchapter 8,
Article 6.
   (F)   (1)   If the Building Official must cause emergency maintenance work
to be done, they may revoke the grading permit in writing.
      (2)   The permit shall not be renewed until an erosion and sediment
control system and/or other systems necessary to comply with water quality
requirements approved by the Building Official are installed and a fee of one-
half the amount required for the original permit paid by the owner.
      (3)   The Building Official may waive installation of an erosion and
sediment control system.
   (G)   (1)   If any grading subject to §
8-1-805 pertaining to grading permits, has commenced on private property
without a valid grading permit, the property owner may be required to prepare
and implement an erosion and sediment control plan as well as other plans
required under the water quality requirements which have been approved by the
Building Official.
      (2)   In the event of failure by the property owner to install an
approved erosion and sediment control system and/or other systems necessary to
comply with water quality requirements, the Building Official may cause
emergency work to be done to protect adjacent private and public property.
      (3)   The procedures of §
8-1-812, pertaining to hazardous conditions, need not apply for emergency
erosion and sediment control work.
      (4)   The cost shall be charged to the owner in accordance with division
(E) above.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-837) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 18,
passed 2-18-2003)
**** ARTICLE 14. GRADING INSPECTION ****
§ 8-1-838 GENERALLY.
   All grading operations for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspection by the Building Official.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-838) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-839 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANTS.
   (A)   (1)   It is the responsibility of the civil engineer, architect or
other qualified individual who prepares the grading plan approved by the
Building Official to incorporate all recommendations from the geotechnical
engineering and engineering geology reports into the grading plan.
      (2)   They shall also be responsible for the professional inspection and
approval of the grading within their area of technical specialty. This
responsibility shall include, but need not be limited to, inspection and
approval as to the establishment of line, grade and drainage of the development
area.
      (3)   The project civil engineer or general contractor shall act as the
coordinating agent if the need arises for liaison between the project
professional grading contractor and the Building Official, and the civil
engineer or other qualified person who prepares and signs the grading plan
shall also be responsible for the preparation of revised plans and erosion
control plans and water quality requirements, and the submission of as graded
grading plans when required by the Building Official upon completion of the
work.
   (B)   Geotechnical engineering and engineering geology reports shall be
required as specified in §
8-1-819 pertaining to geotechnical engineering and engineering geology reports.
During grading, all necessary reports, compaction data, geotechnical
engineering and engineering geology recommendations shall be submitted to the
owner by the geotechnical engineer and engineering geologist. The owner shall
submit copies of the report to the civil engineer and two copies of all reports
to the Building Official.
   (C)   The geotechnical engineer’s area of responsibility shall include, but
need not be limited to, professional inspection and approval concerning the
preparation of ground to receive fills, testing for required compaction,
stability of all finish slopes, design of buttress fills, subdrain installation
and incorporation of data supplied by the engineering geologist.
   (D)   The engineering geologist’s area of responsibility shall include, but
need not be limited to, professional inspection and written approval of the
adequacy of natural ground for receiving fills, the stability of cut slopes
with respect to geological matters and the need for subdrains or other
groundwater drainage devices. They shall report their finding to the
geotechnical engineer and the civil engineer for engineering analysis.
   (E)   The Building Official may expeditiously inspect the project at the
various stages of work requiring approval and at any more frequent intervals
necessary to determine that adequate control is being exercised by the
professional consultants.
   (F)   When preliminary geotechnical engineering reports are not required by
the Building Official, they may require inspection and testing by an approved
testing agency. The testing agency’s responsibility shall include, but need not
be limited to, approval of cleared areas and trenches to receive fill, and the
compaction of fills.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-839) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 19,
passed 2-18-2003)
§ 8-1-840 NOTIFICATION OF NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   If, in the course of fulfilling their responsibility under this
subchapter, the civil engineer, the geotechnical engineer, the engineering
geologist or the testing agency finds that the work is not being done in
conformance with the provisions of the approved specifications, water quality
requirements and grading plans, the discrepancies shall be reported immediately
in writing to the person in charge of the grading work and to the Building
Official.
   (B)   Recommendations for corrective measures, if necessary, shall be
submitted to the owner.
   (C)   The owner shall submit two copies of all recommendations and reports
to the Building Official.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-840) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 20,
passed 2-18-2003)
§ 8-1-841 TRANSFER OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   Notification required. If the civil engineer, the geotechnical
engineer, the engineering geologist, the testing agency or the grading
contractor of record is changed during the course of the work, the work shall
be stopped unless:
      (1)   The owner submits a letter of notification verifying the change of
the responsible professional; and
      (2)   (a)   The new responsible professional submits in writing that they
have reviewed all prior reports and plans, specified by date and title, and
work performed by the prior responsible professional and that they concur with
the findings, conclusions and recommendations, and is satisfied with the work
performed.
         (b)   They may modify or revise recommendations, specifications or
work performed if accompanied by supporting data and approved by the Building
Official.
         (c)   They must state that they assume all responsibility within their
purview as of a specified date. All exceptions must be justified to the
satisfaction of the Building Official.
   (B)   Exception. Where it is clearly indicated that the firm, not the
individual engineer or geologist, is the contracting party, the designated
engineer or geologist may be reassigned and another engineer or geologist
within the firm may assume responsibility.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-841) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-842 SITE INSPECTION BY BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Prior to the approval of any building or grading plans and
specifications, the Building Official may inspect the site to determine that
the plans and specifications are current and reflect existing conditions.
   (B)   The permittee or their agent shall notify the Building Official when
the grading operations specified in Subarticle 14 of the Grading Manual are
ready for inspection.
   (C)   If the inspector finds the geotechnical/soil/geologic or other
conditions not as stated in the approved plans and geotechnical or geology
reports or as in additional information which was required for issuance of the
grading permit, they may, using reasonable judgment, refuse to allow further
work until approval is obtained for a revised grading plan which will conform
to the conditions.
   (D)   The provisions of the California Building Code, § 115, pertaining to
stop orders, shall apply to all grading work, and whenever the Building
Official determines that any work does not comply with the terms of a permit or
this subchapter, or that the geotechnical/soil/geologic or other conditions are
not as stated on the permit, they may order the work stopped by notice in
writing served on any persons engaged in doing such work or causing of such
work to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until
authorized by the Building Official to proceed with the work.
   (E)   Prior to the issuance of building permits for a graded site, the
grading shall be completed in accordance with Subarticle 14 of the Grading
Manual and to the satisfaction of the responsible civil engineer or architect,
engineering geologist and geotechnical engineer, and the Building Official.
   (F)   (1)   Whenever any work on which inspections are required is covered
or concealed by additional work without first having been inspected, the
Building Official may require, by written notice, that such work be exposed for
examination.
      (2)   The work of exposing and recovering shall not entail or be subject
to expense by the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-842) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 21,
passed 2-18-2003)
§ 8-1-843 SPECIAL INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Building Official may establish special inspection requirements in
accordance with the California Building Code, Chapter 17, pertaining to special
inspections, as amended, for special cases involving grading or paving related
operations.
   (B)   Special cases may apply to work where, in the opinion of the Building
Official, it is necessary to supplement the resources or expertise available
for inspection.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-843) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2003-128, § 22,
passed 2-18-2003)
**** ARTICLE 15. COMPLETION OF WORK ****
§ 8-1-844 FINAL REPORTS.
   Upon completion of the grading work and at the final completion of the work,
the Building Official may require the written approvals, reports, drawings and
supplements thereto specified in Subarticle 15 of the Grading Manual.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-844) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-1-845 NOTIFICATION OF COMPLETION.
   (A)   The permittee under this subchapter or their agent shall notify the
Building Official when the grading operation is ready for final inspection.
   (B)   All work, including installation of all drainage facilities and their
protective devices and all erosion control measures, must be completed in
accordance with the final approved grading plan, and the required reports
approved by the Building Official, before final approval of the grading permit
is given by the Building Official.
   (C)   They may approve the grading work prior to completion of all work in
special cases of extreme hardship and if no hazard exists and an adequate bond
or other security is posted to ensure completion of all remaining work.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-845) (Ord. 90-11, § 7, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-1-846—8-1-899 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 9. CALIFORNIA RESIDENTIAL CODE ****
§ 8-1-900 CHAPTER 2, DEFINITIONS, AMENDED.
   Section R202, “Definitions”, is hereby amended by adding, in alphabetical
order, “OCFA” and “Spark Arrester” as follows:
OCFA. The Orange County Fire Authority which is the fire department/authority
having jurisdiction.
SPARK ARRESTER. A listed device constructed of noncombustible material
specifically for the purpose of meeting one of the following conditions:
   1.   Removing and retaining carbon and other flammable particles/debris from
the exhaust flow of an internal combustion engine in accordance with California
Vehicle Code Section 38366.
   2.   Fireplaces that burn solid fuel in accordance with California Building
Code Chapter 28.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 3, passed 12-2-2025)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2025-237, § 3, adopted 12-2-2025, repealed the former Subchapter 9, §§
8-1-900 through 8-1-906, and enacted a new Subchapter 9 as set out herein. The
former Subchapter 9 pertained to the 2022 Edition of the California Residential
Code and derived from Ord. 2022-219, § 3, passed 11-15-2022.
§ 8-1-901 CHAPTER 3, BUILDING PLANNING, AMENDED.
   Chapter 3, “Building Planning”, is adopted in its entirety with the
following amendments and additions:
   (A)   Table R301.2, “Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria”, is amended as
follows:
   (B)   Section R301.9, “Fuel modification requirements for new construction”,
is hereby added as follows:
R301.9 Fuel modification requirements for new construction. All new structures
and facilities adjoining land containing hazardous combustible vegetation shall
be approved and in accordance with the requirements of OCFA Guideline C-05
“Vegetation Management Guideline - Technical Design for new Construction Fuel
Modification Plans and Maintenance Program.”
   (C)   Section R3017.5.1, “Fire sprinkler attached garages, and carports with
habitable space above”, is hereby amended by modifying the exception to read as
follows:
Exception: An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be required
when additions or alterations are made to existing carports and/or garages that
do not have an automatic fire sprinkler system installed unless a sprinkler
system is required in accordance with California Fire Code Section 903.2.8.
   (D)   Section R309.1, “Townhouse automatic fire sprinkler systems”, is
hereby amended by modifying the exception to read as follows:
Exception: An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be required
when additions or alterations are made to existing townhouses that do not have
an automatic fire sprinkler system installed unless a sprinkler system is
required in accordance with California Fire Code Section 903.2.8.
   (E)   Section R309.2, “One- and two-family dwellings automatic fire
sprinkler systems”, is hereby amended by modifying exception No. 1 to read as
follows:
1.   An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be required for
additions or alterations to existing buildings that are not already provided
with an automatic sprinkler system unless a sprinkler system is required in
accordance with California Fire Code, OCFA Local Amendments, Section 903.2.8.
   (F)   Section R313.3.6.2.2, “Calculation procedure”, is hereby amended as
follows:
Section R313.3.6.2.2 Calculation procedure. Determination of the required size
for water distribution piping shall be in accordance with the following
procedure and California Fire Code Section 903.3.5.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 3, passed 12-2-2025)
§ 8-1-902 CHAPTER 4, FOUNDATIONS, AMENDED.
   Section R405.1, “Concrete or masonry foundations”, is amended as follows:
R405.1 Concrete or masonry foundations is amended by deleting the “Exception”
from the end of this section for foundations installed on well-drained ground
or sand-gravel mixture soils.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 3, passed 12-2-2025)
§ 8-1-903 CHAPTER 9, ROOF ASSEMBLIES, AMENDED.
   (A)   Section R902.1, “Roof assemblies”, is amended as follows:
R902.1 Roof assemblies. Roofs shall be covered with materials as set forth in
Sections R904 and R905. A minimum Class A roofing shall be installed in areas
designated by this section. Class A roofing required by this section to be
listed shall be tested in accordance with UL 790 or ASTM E 108.
Exceptions:
   1.   Class A roof assemblies include those with coverings of brick, masonry,
and exposed concrete roof deck.
   2.   Class A roof assemblies also include ferrous or copper shingles or
sheets, metal sheets, clay or concrete roof tile, or slate installed on
noncombustible decks.
   (B)   Section R902.1.2, “Roof coverings in all other areas other than Fire
Hazard Severity Zones or a Wildland Urban Interface ( WUI) area”, is amended as
follows:
R902.1.2 Roof coverings in all other areas other than Fire Hazard Severity
Zones or a Wildland Urban Interface (WUI) area. The entire roof covering of
every existing structure where more than 50% of the total roof area is replaced
within any one-year period, the entire roof covering of every new structure,
and any roof covering applied in the alteration, repair or replacement of the
roof of every existing structure, shall be a fire-retardant roof covering that
is a Class A.
   (C)   Section R902.2, “Fire-retardant-treated shingles and shakes”, is
amended as follows:
R902.2 Fire-retardant-treated shingles and shakes. Wood shakes and shingles are
not allowed within the City of Laguna Niguel.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 3, passed 12-2-2025)
§ 8-1-904 CHAPTER 10, CHIMNEYS AND FIREPLACES, AMENDED.
   (A)   Section R1001.14 ,”Outdoor fireplaces, fire pits, fire rings, or
similar devices”, is hereby added as follows:
R1001.14 Outdoor fireplaces, fire pits, fire rings, or similar devices. Outdoor
fireplaces, fire pits, fire rings, or similar exterior devices shall comply
with this section.
Exception: Barbeques, grills, and other portable devices intended solely for
cooking.
   (B)   Section R1001.14.1, “Gas-fueled devices”, is hereby added as follows:
R1001.14.1 Gas-fueled devices. Outdoor fireplaces, fire pits and similar
devices fueled by natural gas or liquefied-petroleum gas are allowed when
approved by the Building Department and the device is designed to only burn a
gas flame and not wood or other solid fuel. At R-3 occupancies, combustible
construction shall not be located within three feet of an atmospheric column
that extends vertically from the perimeter of the device. Where a permanent
Building Department approved hood and vent is installed, combustible
construction may encroach upon this column between the bottom of the hood and
the vent opening. Where chimneys or vents are installed, they shall have a
spark arrester in accordance with Section R1003.9.2.
   (C)   Section R1001.14.2, “Devices using wood or fuels other than natural
gas or liquefied-petroleum gas”, is hereby added as follows:
R1001.14.2 Devices using wood or fuels other than natural gas or liquefied-
petroleum gas. Fireplaces burning wood or other solid fuel shall be constructed
in accordance with Section R1001. Fires in a fireplace shall be contained
within a firebox with an attached chimney. The opening in the face of the
firebox shall have an installed and maintained method of arresting sparks. The
burning of wood or other solid fuel in a device is not allowed within 15 feet
of combustible structures, unless within a permanent or portable fireplace.
   (D)   Section R1001.14.3, “Where prohibited”, is hereby added as follows:
R1001.14.3 Where prohibited. The burning of wood and other solid fuels shall
not be conducted within a fuel modification zone. Wood and other solid fuel
burning fires in devices other than permanent fireplaces are not allowed within
Wildfire Risk Areas (WRA) and adopted Fire Hazard Severity Zones (FHSZ) or in
locations where conditions could cause the spread of fire to the WRA or FHSZ,
unless determined by the Fire Code Official that the location or design of the
device should reasonably prevent the start of a wildfire.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 3, passed 12-2-2025)
§§ 8-1-905—8-1-999 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 10. CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE ****
§ 8-1-1000 ADOPTION.
   As adopted in §
8-1-12, the 2025 Edition of the California Green Building Standards Code shall
be the Green Building Standards Code of the city, regulating the construction,
alteration, movement, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location,
maintenance, removal, demolition, of every building or structure or any
appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures in the
city.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 4, passed 12-2-2025)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2025-237, § 4, adopted 12-2-2025, repealed the former Subchapter 10, §
8-1-1000, and enacted a new Subchapter 10 as set out herein. The former
Subchapter 10 pertained to 2022 Edition of the California Green Building
Standards Code and derived from Ord. 2022-219, § 4, passed 11-15-2022.
§ 8-1-1000.1 COMPLIANCE WITH CALGREEN RECYCLING REQUIREMENTS.
   Persons applying for a permit from the city for new construction and
building additions and alternations shall also comply with the requirements of
§
6-3-709.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 4, passed 12-2-2025)
**** SUBCHAPTER 11. SMALL RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR SYSTEMS ****
§ 8-1-1001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to adopt an expedited, streamlined solar
permitting process that complies with Assembly Bill AB 2188 (Chapter 521,
Statutes 2014, California Government Code, § 65850.5) to achieve timely and
cost-effective installations of small residential rooftop solar energy systems.
This subchapter allows the city to achieve these goals while protecting the
public’s health and safety.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1001) (Ord. 2018-192, § 2, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 8-1-1002 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to the permitting of all small residential
rooftop solar energy systems in the city, as that term is defined in this
subchapter.
   (B)   Small residential rooftop solar energy systems legally established or
permitted prior to the effective date of this subchapter are not subject to the
requirements of this subchapter, unless physical modifications or alterations
are undertaken that materially change the size, type or components of a small
rooftop energy system in such a way as to require new permitting. Routine
operation and maintenance of small residential rooftop solar energy systems
shall not require a permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1002) (Ord. 2018-192, § 2, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 8-1-1003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DEPARTMENT. The Building and Safety Division of the Community
Development Department for the City of Laguna Niguel.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Official for the City of Laguna Niguel.
   CITY. The City of Laguna Niguel.
   ELECTRONIC SUBMITTAL. The utilization of one or more of the following:
      (1)   Email;
      (2)   The Internet; and
      (3)   Facsimile.
   SMALL RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system which
meets all of the following:
      (1)   Is no larger than ten kilowatts alternating current nameplate
rating or 30 kilowatts thermal;
      (2)   Conforms to all applicable state fire, structural, electrical and
other building codes as adopted or amended by the city, and all state and city
health and safety standards;
      (3)   Conforms to all applicable safety and performance standards
established by the current California Electrical Code, California Code of
Regulations, Title 24, Part 3, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers and accredited testing laboratories such as Underwriters Laboratories
and, where applicable, rules of the Public Utilities Commission regarding
safety and reliability;
      (4)   Is installed on a single or duplex family dwelling; and
      (5)   The panel or module array does not exceed the maximum legal
building height as defined by the city.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Has the meaning set forth in the California Civil Code,
§ 801.5(a)(1) and (a)(2), as such section or subdivision may be amended,
renumbered or redesignated from time to time.
   SPECIFIC, ADVERSE IMPACT. A significant, quantifiable, direct and
unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified and written public health or
safety standards, policies or conditions as they existed on the date the
application was deemed complete.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1003) (Ord. 2018-192, § 2, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 8-1-1004 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All solar energy systems shall meet applicable health and safety
standards and requirements imposed by the city, local fire department (County
Fire Authority) and the state.
   (B)   Solar energy systems for heating water in single-family residences and
for heating water in commercial or swimming pool applications shall be
certified by an accredited listing agency as defined by the California Plumbing
and Mechanical Code.
   (C)   Solar energy systems for producing electricity shall meet all
applicable safety and performance standards established by the California
Electrical Code, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and
accredited testing laboratories such as Underwriters Laboratories and, where
applicable, rules of the Public Utilities Commission regarding safety and
reliability.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1004) (Ord. 2018-192, § 2, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 8-1-1005 APPLICATION AND DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Within 14 days of adoption of this subchapter, the Building Department
shall develop and implement a checklist of all requirements with which small
residential rooftop solar energy systems shall comply with to be eligible for
expedited review. The checklist shall substantially conform to the checklist
contained in the most current version of the California Solar Permitting
Guidebook adopted by the Governor’s Office of Planning and Research.
   (B)   All documents required for the submission of an expedited small
residential rooftop solar energy system application, including the checklist,
shall be made available on the city’s website and made available during
business hours at the Building Department.
   (C)   Electronic submittal of the required permit application and associated
documents by electronic means shall be made available to all small residential
rooftop solar energy system permit applicants.
   (D)   An applicant’s electronic signature shall be accepted on all forms,
applications and other documents in lieu of a wet signature.
   (E)   All fees prescribed for the permitting of small residential rooftop
solar energy systems pursuant to this subchapter must comply with the
California Government Code, §§ 65850.55 and 66015 and the California Health and
Safety Code, § 17951.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1005) (Ord. 2018-192, § 2, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 8-1-1006 PERMIT REVIEW AND INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Building Department shall implement an administrative,
nondiscretionary review process to expedite the approval of small residential
rooftop solar energy system applications.
   (B)   Review of an application for a small residential rooftop solar energy
system shall be limited to the Building Department’s review of whether the
applicant meets local, state and federal health and safety requirements.
   (C)   For an application for a small residential rooftop solar energy system
that meets the requirements of the city’s checklist, the Building Department
shall issue a building permit or other non-discretionary permit or
authorization.
   (D)   If an application for a small residential rooftop solar energy system
is deemed incomplete, a written correction notice detailing all deficiencies in
the application and any additional information or documentation required to be
eligible for expedited permitting shall be sent to the applicant for
resubmission.
   (E)   The Building Official may require an applicant to apply for a use
permit if the Building Official finds, based on substantial evidence, that the
solar energy system could have a specific, adverse impact upon the public
health and safety.
   (F)   If a use permit is required, the city may not deny an application for
the residential rooftop solar energy system use permit, unless the city makes
written findings based upon substantial evidence in the record that the
proposed installation would have a specific, adverse impact upon public health
or safety, and there is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid
the specific, adverse impact. Such findings shall include the basis for the
rejection of potential feasible alternatives for preventing the adverse impact.
Such decisions may be appealed to the City Planning Commission in accordance
with §
9-1-112.
   (G)   Any conditions imposed on an application for a small residential
rooftop solar energy system use permit shall be designed to mitigate the
specific, adverse impact upon health and safety at the lowest possible cost.
   (H)   The city shall not condition approval of a small residential rooftop
solar energy system application on the approval of an association, as defined
in the California Civil Code, § 4080, that manages a common interest
development.
   (I)   Only one inspection shall be required and performed by the Building
Department for small residential rooftop solar energy systems eligible for
expedited review.
      (1)   The inspection shall be completed in a timely manner and should
include consolidated inspections.
      (2)   If a small residential rooftop solar energy system fails
inspection, a subsequent inspection is authorized but need not conform to the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1006) (Ord. 2018-192, § 2, passed 4-3-2018)
**** SUBCHAPTER 12. ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS PERMIT ****
§ 8-1-1007 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote and encourage the use of
electric vehicles by creating an expedited, streamlined permitting process for
electric vehicle (EV) charging stations while promoting public health and
safety and preventing specific adverse impacts in the installation and use of
such charging stations. This section is also intended to comply with California
Government Code, §§ 65850.7 and 65850.71, including successor statutes and
amendments thereto.
(Ord. 2024-228, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 8-1-1008 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to the permitting of all electric vehicle
charging station systems in the city, as that term is defined in this
subchapter.
   (B)   Electric vehicle charging station systems legally established or
permitted prior to the effective date of this subchapter are not subject to the
requirements of this subchapter unless physical modifications or alterations
are undertaken that materially change the size, type or components of an
electric vehicle charging station system. Routine operation and maintenance or
like-kind replacements of electric vehicle charging stations shall not require
a permit.
   (C)   Electric vehicle charging stations shall comply with the design and
development standards established in §
9-1-67.
   (D)   Should this subchapter conflict with any permit processing
requirements specified in any other chapter of the municipal code, this
subchapter shall take precedence.
(Ord. 2024-228, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 8-1-1009 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DEPARTMENT. The Building and Safety Division of the Community
Development Department for the City of Laguna Niguel.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Official for the City of Laguna Niguel.
   CITY. The City of Laguna Niguel.
   ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION or CHARGING STATION. Any level of electric
vehicle supply equipment that is designed and built in compliance with
California Electrical Code, Article 625, or any successor regulation, and
delivers electricity from a source outside an electric vehicle into a plug-in
electric vehicle.
   ELECTRONIC SUBMITTAL. The utilization of one or more of the following:
      (1)   Email;
      (2)   The internet; or
      (3)   Online permit portal.
   FEASIBLE METHOD. Any method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid a specific,
adverse impact, which may include, but is not limited to, any cost-effective
method, condition or mitigation imposed by the city on another similarly
situated application in a prior successful application for a permit.
   SPECIFIC, ADVERSE IMPACT. A significant, quantifiable, direct and
unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified and written public health or
safety standards, policies or conditions as they existed on the date the
application was deemed complete.
(Ord. 2024-228, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 8-1-1010 ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All electric vehicle charging station systems shall meet applicable
health and safety standards and requirements imposed by the city, local fire
department (County Fire Authority) and the state.
   (B)   Electric vehicle charging station systems shall meet all applicable
safety and performance standards established by the California Electrical Code,
the Society of Automotive Engineers, the National Electrical Manufacturers
association and accredited testing laboratories, such as Underwriters
Laboratories, and rules of Public Utilities Commission or a municipal electric
utility company regarding safety and reliability.
   (C)   Installation of EV charging stations and associated wiring, bonding,
disconnecting means and overcurrent protective devices shall meet the
requirements of Article 625 and all applicable provisions of the California
Electrical Code.
   (D)   Installation of EV charging stations shall be incorporated into the
load calculations of all new or existing electrical services and shall meet the
requirements of the California Electrical Code. EV charging equipment shall be
considered a continuous load.
   (E)   Anchorage of either floor-mounted or wall-mounted EV charging stations
shall meet the requirements of the California Building or Residential Code as
applicable per occupancy, and the provisions of the manufacturer’s installation
instructions. Mounting of charging stations shall not adversely affect building
elements.
(Ord. 2024-228, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 8-1-1011 PERMIT APPLICATIONS AND SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All documents required for the submission of an electric vehicle
charging station application, including the checklist of submittal requirements
for expedited review, shall be made available on the city’s website and made
available during business hours at the Building Department.
   (B)   Electronic submittal of the required permit application and associated
supporting documents by electronic means shall be made available to all
electric vehicle charging station permit applicants.
   (C)   An applicant’s electronic signature shall be accepted on all forms,
applications and other documents in lieu of a wet signature.
   (D)   Prior to submitting an application for processing, the applicant shall
verify that the installation of an EV charging station will not have specific,
adverse impact to public health and safety and building occupants. Verification
by the applicant includes, but is not limited to: electrical system capacity
and loads; electrical system wiring, bonding and overcurrent protection;
building infrastructure affected by charging station equipment and associated
conduits; and areas of charging station equipment and vehicle parking.
(Ord. 2024-228, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 8-1-1012 PERMIT REVIEW AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Building Division shall implement an expedited, streamlined
permitting process for electric vehicle charging stations and adopt a checklist
of all requirements with which electric vehicle charging stations shall comply
with in order to be eligible for expedited review. The city’s adopted checklist
shall be published on the city’s website.
   (B)   An application that satisfies the information requirements in the
city’s checklist shall be deemed complete and be promptly processed. Upon
confirmation by the Building Division that the application and supporting
documents meet the requirements of the city’s checklist, and is consistent with
all applicable laws and health and safety standards, the Building Division
shall, consistent with California Government Code, § 65850.7, approve the
application and issue all necessary permits. Such approval does not authorize
an applicant to energize or utilize the EV charging station until approval is
granted by the city.
   (C)   If an application for an electric vehicle charging station is deemed
incomplete, a written correction notice detailing all deficiencies in the
application and any additional information or documentation required to be
eligible for expedited permitting shall be sent to the applicant for
resubmission.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the expedited permit processing set forth in this
chapter, the Building Official retains authority at all times to identify and
address higher priority life-safety situations. If the Building Official finds,
based on substantial evidence, that the electric vehicle charging station could
have a specific adverse impact upon the public health and safety, the city may
require the applicant to apply for a minor use permit.
   (E)   If a minor use permit is required, the city may not deny an
application for an electric vehicle charging station minor use permit unless
the city makes written findings based upon substantial evidence in the record
that the proposed installation would have a specific, adverse impact upon
public health or safety, and there is no feasible method to satisfactorily
mitigate or avoid the specific, adverse impact. Such finding shall include the
basis for the rejection of potential feasible alternatives for preventing the
adverse impact. Such decisions may be appealed to the Planning Commission in
accordance with §
9-1-112.
   (F)   Any conditions imposed on an application to install electric vehicle
charging station system shall be designed to mitigate the specific, adverse
impact upon health and safety at the lowest possible cost.
   (G)   The city shall not condition approval of an electric vehicle charging
station system permit on the approval of an association, as defined in the
California Civil Code, § 4080, that manages a common interest development.
(Ord. 2024-228, passed 5-21-2024)
**** SUBCHAPTER 13. CALIFORNIA WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE ****
§ 8-1-1301 ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE.
   (A)   The 2025 Edition of the California Wildland-Urban Interface Code, as
published by the International Code Council, shall be the Wildland-Urban
Interface Code of the city. The California Wildland-Urban Interface Code is on
file for public examination in the office of the Building Official. One copy of
the code is now filed in the office of the City Clerk. This code is hereby
adopted and incorporated as through set forth in full in this section.
   (B)   (1)   Chapter 6, “Fire Protection Requirements”, is adopted in its
entirety as amended by the SFM with the following amendments:
      (2)   (a)   Sec. 8-1-21. California Wildland-Urban Interface Code—Chapter
6, Fire Protection Requirements, amended.
         (b)   Chapter 1, Division II, Scope and Administration, is adopted in
its entirety with the following amendments:
            1.   Section 101.3.1, “Application”, is hereby amended as follows:
Section 101.3.1. Application. New buildings located in any Very High Fire
Hazard Severity Zone or any Wildland-Urban Interface Fire Area designated by
the enforcing agency constructed after the application date shall comply with
the provisions of this code.
Additions to buildings and accessory structures located in areas currently
designated as such, shall comply with the provisions of this chapter listed
below.
1.   Vents 504.10
2.   Decks 504.7.3
3.   Accessory buildings and miscellaneous structures 504.11
Exceptions:
1.   Buildings of an accessory character classified as a Group U occupancy and
not exceeding 120 square feet in floor area, when located at least 30 feet from
an applicable building.
2.   Buildings of an accessory character classified as a Group U occupancy of
any size located at least 50 feet from an applicable building.
3.   Buildings classified as a Group U Agricultural Building, as defined in
Section 202 of this code (see also Appendix C — Group U Agricultural
Buildings), when located at least 50 feet from an applicable building.
4.   Additions with a valuation less than $50,000.
            2.   Section 602.4, “Fuel modification plans”, is hereby added as
follows:
602.4 Fuel modification plans. Fuel modification plans shall be reviewed and
approved by OCFA for all new buildings to be built or installed in a wildfire
risk area. Plans shall meet the criteria set forth in OCFA Guideline C-05
“Vegetation Management Guideline — Technical Design for New Construction Fuel
Modification Plans and Maintenance Program.
         (c)   Appendices adopted and deleted.
            1.   Appendix A is not adopted.
            2.   Appendix B is not adopted.
            3.   Appendix C is not adopted.
            4.   Appendix D is not adopted.
            5.   Appendix E is deleted in its entirety.
            6.   Appendix F is adopted in its entirety as amended by the SFM.
            7.   Appendix G is adopted in its entirety as amended by the SFM.
            8.   Appendix H is not adopted.
            9.   Appendix I is not adopted.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 11, passed 12-2-2025)
**** SUBCHAPTER 14. CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE ****
§ 8-1-1401 ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE.
   The 2025 Edition of the California Energy Code, as published by the
International Code Council, shall be the energy code of the city. The
California Energy Code is on file for public examination in the office of the
Building Official. One copy of the code is now filed in the office of the City
Clerk. This code is hereby adopted and incorporated as through set forth in
full in this section.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 12, passed 12-2-2025)
***** CHAPTER 2: ELECTRICAL CODE *****
Section
Subchapter 1. California Electrical Code
8-2-1   Adoption of the California Electrical Code
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE ****
§ 8-2-1 ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE.
   As adopted in §
8-1-12, the 2025 Edition of the California Electrical Code, based on the 2024
National Electrical Code as published by the National Fire Protection
Association, shall be the electrical code of the city, regulating all
installation, arrangement, alteration, repair, use and other operation of
electrical wiring, connections, fixtures and other electrical appliances on
premises within the city.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 6, passed 12-2-2025)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2025-237, § 6, adopted 12-2-2025, repealed the former Subchapter 1, §
8-2-1, and enacted a new Subchapter 1 as set out herein. The former Subchapter
1 pertained to 2022 Edition of the California Electrical Code and derived from
Ord. 2022-219, § 6, passed 11-15-2022.
***** CHAPTER 3: PLUMBING AND SWIMMING POOL REGULATIONS *****
Section
Subchapter 1. California Plumbing Code
8-3-1   Adoption of California Plumbing Code
8-3-2—8-3-24   Reserved
Subchapter 2. International Swimming Pool and Spa Code
8-3-25   Adoption of International Swimming Pool and Spa Code
Cross-reference:
Health and sanitation, see Title 6
Water conservation, see §§ 6-5-1 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE ****
§ 8-3-1 ADOPTION OF CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE.
   As adopted in §
8-1-12, the 2025 Edition of the California Plumbing Code, based on the 2024
Uniform Plumbing Code as published by the International Association of Plumbing
and Mechanical Officials, shall be the plumbing code of the city, regulating
erection, installation, alteration, repair, relocation, replacement,
maintenance or use of plumbing systems within the city.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 7, passed 12-2-2025)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2025-237, § 7, adopted 12-2-2025, repealed the former Subchapter 1, §
8-3-1, and enacted a new Subchapter 1 as set out herein. The former Subchapter
1 pertained to the 2022 Edition of the California Plumbing Code and derived
from Ord. 2022-219, § 7, passed 11-15-2022.
§§ 8-3-2—8-3-24 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE ****
§ 8-3-25 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE.
   As adopted in §
8-1-12, the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2024 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council shall be the swimming pool and spa
code of the city.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 8, passed 12-2-2025)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2025-237, § 8, adopted 12-2-2025, repealed the former Subchapter 2, §
8-3-25, and enacted a new Subchapter 2 as set out herein. The former Subchapter
2 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. 2022-219, § 8,
passed 11-5-2022.
***** CHAPTER 4: SANITARY SEWER COLLECTION SYSTEMS *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Sewer Design Criteria and Plan Checking
8-4-1   Generally
8-4-2   Design criteria
8-4-3   Preparation of plans
8-4-4   Preliminary plan – check fees
8-4-5   Inspection fees
8-4-6—8-4-10   Reserved
8-4-11   Copies of plans
8-4-12   Easements
8-4-13   Prerequisites for beginning construction
8-4-14—8-4-23   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Sewer Construction and Inspection
8-4-24   General requirements
8-4-25   Engineering data
8-4-26   Schedule
8-4-27   Notice to Department prior to commencement of work
8-4-28   Recording of permits and licenses
8-4-29—8-4-33   Reserved
8-4-34   Inspection
8-4-35—8-4-44   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Definitions and General Provisions
8-4-45   Definitions
8-4-46   ASTM defined
8-4-47   Construction schedule defined
8-4-48   Applicant defined
8-4-49   Department defined
8-4-50—8-4-54   Reserved
8-4-55   Engineer defined
8-4-56   Final approval defined
8-4-57   Special inspector defined
8-4-58   Laboratory defined
8-4-59   Plans defined
8-4-60—8-4-64   Reserved
8-4-65   Specifications defined
8-4-66   State specifications defined
8-4-67   Surety and sureties defined
8-4-68   Miscellaneous terms
8-4-69   Use of trade names
8-4-70—8-4-74   Reserved
8-4-75   Work defined
8-4-76   Detail drawings defined
8-4-77   Interpretation of specifications and detail drawings
8-4-78   Sanitary sewer collection system defined
8-4-79   Fittings
8-4-80—8-4-84   Reserved
8-4-85   Material and equipment drawings
8-4-86   Conformity with plans and allowable deviation
8-4-87   Furnishing of construction water
8-4-88   Connection to existing district facilities
8-4-89   Liability of city employees
8-4-90—8-4-94   Reserved
8-4-95   Responsibility for damage
8-4-96   Responsibilities of permittee
8-4-97—8-4-106   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Special Inspector
8-4-107   Definition; duties
8-4-108   Appointment and removal
8-4-109   Department election to inspect
8-4-110—8-4-119   Reserved
Subchapter 5. Control of Materials
8-4-120   Samples and tests
8-4-121   Defective materials
8-4-122—8-4-131   Reserved
Subchapter 6. Vitrified Clay Pipe
8-4-132   General standards
8-4-133   Identification marks
8-4-134   Tests generally
8-4-135   Hydrostatic test
8-4-136   Loading test
8-4-137—8-4-141   Reserved
8-4-142   Acceptance or rejection of result of test
8-4-143   Inspection independent of test
8-4-144   Cracked pipe
8-4-145   Surface imperfections
8-4-146   Socket out-of-round
8-4-147—8-4-151   Reserved
8-4-152   Deviation in straight pipe
8-4-153   Broken pipe
8-4-154   Foreign matter fused to pipe
8-4-155   General soundness of pipe
8-4-156   Vitrified clay pipe joints
8-4-157—8-4-161   Reserved
8-4-162   Other types of joints and pipe
8-4-163   Branches
8-4-164   Stoppers
8-4-165—8-4-174   Reserved
Subchapter 7. Portland Cement Concrete
8-4-175   General standards
8-4-176   Class A
8-4-177   Class B
8-4-178   Class C
8-4-179   Class D
8-4-180—8-4-184   Reserved
8-4-185   Cement
8-4-186   Reinforcing
8-4-187—8-4-196   Reserved
Subchapter 8. Precast Portland Cement Concrete Manholes
8-4-197   General standards
8-4-198   Fabrication
8-4-199—8-4-208   Reserved
Subchapter 9. Manhole Frames, Covers and Cleanouts
8-4-209   General standards
8-4-210   Cleanouts
8-4-211—8-4-220   Reserved
Subchapter 10. Steel Casing Pipe
8-4-221   General standards
8-4-222—8-4-231   Reserved
Subchapter 11. Epoxy Resin
8-4-232   General standards
8-4-233—8-4-242   Reserved
Subchapter 12. Earthwork
8-4-243   General standards
8-4-244   Clearing and grubbing
8-4-245   Excavation
8-4-246   Maximum length of trench
8-4-247   Trench width
8-4-248—8-4-252   Reserved
8-4-253   Bracing
8-4-254   Correction of faulty grades
8-4-255   Grading and stockpiling
8-4-256   Dewatering
8-4-257   Granular soil
8-4-258—8-4-262   Reserved
8-4-263   Trench bottom for sewer pipe
8-4-264   Foundations in rock
8-4-265   Foundations in unsuitable material
8-4-266   Foundation in suitable soil
8-4-267   Trench backfill
8-4-268—8-4-272   Reserved
8-4-273   Pipe bedding
8-4-274   Procedure at pipe zone
8-4-275   Backfill above pipe zone
8-4-276   Compaction in open fields
8-4-277   Backfill at street zone
8-4-278—8-4-282   Reserved
8-4-283   Compaction method
8-4-284   Consolidation
8-4-285   Testing of compaction
8-4-286   Removal of excess excavated material
8-4-287   Use of imported backfill material
8-4-288—8-4-292   Reserved
8-4-293   Structure excavation
8-4-294   Structure backfill
8-4-295   Backfill material
8-4-296   Compaction of backfill
8-4-297   Final cleanup
8-4-298—8-4-307   Reserved
Subchapter 13. Sewer Pipe and Fittings
8-4-308   Laying sewer pipe
8-4-309   Flexible compression joints
8-4-310   Prevention of foreign matter from entering pipe
8-4-311   Branches
8-4-312   Saddle connections
8-4-313   Saddle installation
8-4-314—8-4-323   Reserved
Subchapter 14. House Laterals
8-4-324   General standards
8-4-325   Marking of location
8-4-326—8-4-335   Reserved
Subchapter 15. Chimneys
8-4-336   General standards
8-4-337—8-4-346   Reserved
Subchapter 16. Manholes
8-4-347   General standards
8-4-348   Manhole base
8-4-349   Manhole invert
8-4-350   Precast manholes
8-4-351   Manhole stubs and stoppers
8-4-352—8-4-356   Reserved
8-4-357   Watertightness of manholes
8-4-358   Manhole frame and cover
8-4-359   Drop manholes
8-4-360   Connections to existing manholes
8-4-361—8-4-370   Reserved
Subchapter 17. Steel Casing Pipe
8-4-371   General standards
8-4-372   Installation
8-4-373   Jacking and boring
8-4-374   Carrier pipe within casing pipe
8-4-375—8-4-384   Reserved
Subchapter 18. Concrete Encasement
8-4-385   General standards
8-4-386—8-4-395   Reserved
Subchapter 19. Removal and Resurfacing of Street Pavement and Surfaces
8-4-396   General standards
8-4-397—8-4-406   Reserved
Subchapter 20. Installation Under Railroad Crossings
8-4-407   General standards
8-4-408—8-4-417   Reserved
Subchapter 21. Testing for Leakage and Infiltration
8-4-418   General standards
8-4-419   Leakage test
8-4-420   Infiltration test
8-4-421   Manhole test
8-4-422   Test for damaged or defective pipe in place
8-4-423   Final inspection
Subchapter 22. Detail Drawings
8-4-424   Detail drawings
Cross-reference:
Improvement, construction and repair of streets, see §§
7-3-1 et seq.
Sewage and solid waste disposal, see §§
6-3-1 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. SEWER DESIGN CRITERIA AND PLAN CHECKING ****
§ 8-4-1 GENERALLY.
   The following procedure for an applicant must be complied with to obtain
sewer design approval for sewer collection systems within the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-2 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   If an off-site sewer trunk is required to connect to a sanitation district
trunk, this facility shall be approved by such sanitation district prior to
submittal of plans to the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-3 PREPARATION OF PLANS.
   (A)   All sewer and profile plans must be prepared under the direct
supervision of a registered civil engineer licensed to practice in the state.
   (B)   This requirement must be attested to by the engineer’s signature on
the plans.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-4 PRELIMINARY PLAN – CHECK FEES.
   After completion of the plans, the engineer shall submit them to the
Department for plan checking, at which time a fee shall be paid to the
Department equal to 1% of the estimated total cost of installation.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-5 INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Following the approval of the plans, the applicant shall be required
to pay an inspection fee to the Department in an amount equal to 3% of the
estimated cost of the installations. An inspection fee of 3% of any additional
cost of installation shall be required in addition to the original inspection
fee. All fees shall be paid in advance and prior to the starting of any such
work.
   (B)   Whenever the applicant has called for inspection and fails to appear
on the job site with a working crew or fails to have work ready for inspection,
a penalty fee in the amount established by resolution of the City Council shall
be charged to the applicant for such time lost.
   (C)   When the inspection work is performed by a special inspector employed
by the applicant and approved by the Department, a processing fee, plus an
additional fee for supervision by the Department shall be paid to the
Department in the amounts established by resolution of the City Council. This
hourly fee shall be due and payable not later than ten days after the
completion of work, except that work in progress and not completed by the first
day of every month shall be paid as a partial fee for the inspection
supervision of the previous month.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-5) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-6—8-4-10 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-4-11 COPIES OF PLANS.
   (A)   Upon approval of the plans, the Department shall be furnished three
complete sets of approved prints of the plans.
   (B)   These plans shall be approved and signed, when required, by the
Department of Public Works, the County Flood Control District and the utility
companies, as well as the sanitation district.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-11) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-12 EASEMENTS.
   If an easement is required for construction or maintenance of sanitary
sewers, the minimum width shall be 15 feet, unless otherwise determined by the
Department. Easement descriptions and accompanying plats shall be prepared by
the owner’s engineer. The easement shall be in a form acceptable to the
Department. Easements shall be shown on the sewer plans. The Department will
not approve any sewer plans until all required easements have been duly
recorded.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-12) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-13 PREREQUISITES FOR BEGINNING CONSTRUCTION.
   No work may start until the inspection fees have been arranged, the permit
has been issued and the required approved plans have been filed with the
Department and proper notification has been furnished the Department for
construction inspection.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-13) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-14—8-4-23 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. SEWER CONSTRUCTION AND INSPECTION ****
§ 8-4-24 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All construction regulated by this chapter shall be in accordance with this
chapter, good engineering practice and good workmanship, and this chapter shall
supersede any plans or specifications when more restrictive than such plans or
specifications.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-24) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-25 ENGINEERING DATA.
   The applicant shall furnish, at their own expense, all engineering equipment
and data. All field data, grades and grade stations, at not to exceed 25-foot
intervals, and all pertinent data for the installation of the work, shall be
confirmed by a licensed engineer.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-25) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-26 SCHEDULE.
   The applicant shall submit a schedule to the Department outlining their
proposed construction operation. Whenever the applicant varies the period
during which work is carried on each day, they shall give due notice to the
Department so that proper inspection may be provided. Any work done in the
absence of the inspector will be subject to rejection.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-26) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-27 NOTICE TO DEPARTMENT PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF WORK.
   Notice shall be given to the Department at least two working days in advance
of commencement of work.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-27) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-28 RECORDING OF PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   The applicant shall secure all permits and all licenses required for the
work. These shall be recorded with the Department prior to commencement of
work.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-28) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-29—8-4-33 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-4-34 INSPECTION.
   (A)   All work shall be subject to inspection for conformity with this
chapter and other applicable regulations and shall be left open and uncovered
until the applicant is advised by the inspector that work may proceed as
described in this section.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant shall not proceed with any phase of work until the
previous phase has been inspected and permission to proceed has been given.
      (2)   Inspection shall be made at the following intervals of work:
         (a)   Trench excavation and bedding;
         (b)   Placing of pipe, fittings and structures;
         (c)   Placing and compacting of the pipe zone backfill;
         (d)   Backfill of balance of trench to grade and compaction, to be
certified by a qualified soil engineer or the Department of Public Works when
such work is within their jurisdiction;
         (e)   Testing and mirroring after backfill is approved by the
Department, but prior to paving; and
         (f)   Placing in service after manholes are raised to grade.
   (C)   The Department shall at all times have access to the work during
construction and shall be furnished with every reasonable facility for
ascertaining full knowledge respecting the progress, workmanship and character
of materials used and employed in the work.
   (D)   No pipe, fittings or other materials shall be installed until
inspected and approved by the Department. All installations which are to be
backfilled shall be inspected prior to backfilling, and the applicant shall
give due notice in advance of backfilling to the inspector so that proper
inspection may be provided.
   (E)   The inspection of the work shall not relieve the applicant of any of
their obligations to complete the work as prescribed by this chapter. Defective
work shall be made good, and unsuitable materials may be rejected
notwithstanding the fact that such defective work and unsuitable materials have
been previously overlooked by the inspector and accepted.
   (F)   (1)   The Department shall have the authority to suspend the work
wholly or in part for such time as it may deem necessary due to the failure on
the part of the applicant to carry out orders given, or to perform any
provisions of the plans, this chapter or other applicable regulations.
   (2)   The applicant shall immediately comply with the written order of the
Department to suspend the work wholly or in part. The work shall be resumed
when methods or defective work are corrected as ordered or approved by the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-34) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-35—8-4-44 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 8-4-45 DEFINITIONS.
   The words, terms and phrases defined in this subchapter, when used in this
chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subchapter, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-45) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 8-4-46 ASTM DEFINED.
   ASTM. The American Society for Testing Materials. All references to the
specifications of the ASTM are understood to refer to the current
specifications as revised or amended at the date of construction.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-46) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-47 CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE DEFINED.
   CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE. The applicant’s written estimate in detail, as
required by the Department, showing the estimated dates that certain portions
of the work will be started and completed and the rate of prosecution of
individual portions of the work as planned by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-47) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-48 APPLICANT DEFINED.
   APPLICANT. Any person applying for or holding a valid permit for installing
the work regulated by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-48) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-49 DEPARTMENT DEFINED.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Community Development and its authorized
members.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-49) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-50—8-4-54 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-4-55 ENGINEER DEFINED.
   ENGINEER. The engineer designated by the applicant, acting either directly
or through properly authorized agents of the applicant. The ENGINEER shall be a
registered civil engineer licensed to practice in the state.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-55) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-56 FINAL APPROVAL DEFINED.
   FINAL APPROVAL. The formal action by the Department accepting the work as
fully completed.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-56) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-57 SPECIAL INSPECTOR DEFINED.
   SPECIAL INSPECTOR. A special inspector as defined in Subchapter 4.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-57) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-58 LABORATORY DEFINED.
   LABORATORY. The materials testing laboratory authorized by the Department to
test materials and work involved in the construction of the sanitary sewers.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-58) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-59 PLANS DEFINED.
   PLANS. The part of the plans and specifications which consists of the plans,
profiles, typical cross sections, general cross sections and working drawings
or exact reproductions thereof, which show the location, character, dimensions
and details of the work to be done.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-59) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-60—8-4-64 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-4-65 SPECIFICATIONS DEFINED.
   SPECIFICATIONS. The directions, provisions and requirements as submitted to
the Department by the applicant, pertaining to the method and manner of
performing the work and to the qualities and quantities of materials to be
furnished for work.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-65) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-66 STATE SPECIFICATIONS DEFINED.
   STATE SPECIFICATIONS. The Standard Specifications of the California
Department of Transportation, as subsequently amended or updated. Any such
amendments or updates shall take precedence over the original specifications in
the event of any inconsistencies.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-66) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-67 SURETY AND SURETIES DEFINED.
   SURETY and SURETIES. The bondsperson or party who may guarantee the
fulfillment of the work, or a portion of the work, by bond, and whose
signatures are attached to the bond.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-67) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-68 MISCELLANEOUS TERMS.
   APPROVED, DIRECTED, SATISFACTORY, ACCEPTED, ACCEPTABLE, PROPER, REQUIRED,
NECESSARY and OR EQUAL. As approved, directed, satisfactory, accepted,
acceptable, proper, required, necessary or equal in the opinion of the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-68) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-69 USE OF TRADE NAMES.
   Where a certain product is called for by name, it is intended as a guide for
type and quality. Other products which the applicant desires to use in place of
those specified must be, in the opinion of the Department, of equal type and
quality. An applicant’s desire to use an alternate product must be made in
writing to the Department 15 days prior to starting construction.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-69) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-70—8-4-74 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-4-75 WORK DEFINED.
   WORK. All the work specified in this chapter, or in the plans and
specifications, necessary to complete the construction of sanitary sewers and
collection systems.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-75) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-76 DETAIL DRAWINGS DEFINED.
   DETAIL DRAWINGS. The standard plan drawings as listed and appearing in
Subchapter 22.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-76) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-77 INTERPRETATION OF SPECIFICATIONS AND DETAIL DRAWINGS.
   (A)   Figured dimensions of the detail drawings shall govern, but work not
dimensioned shall be as directed. Work not particularly shown or specified
shall be the same as similar parts which are shown or specified, or as
directed. Full-size details shall take precedence over scale drawings as to
shape and details of construction. This chapter shall govern as to material.
   (B)   Scale drawings, full-size details and specifications are intended to
be fully cooperative and to agree, but should any discrepancy or apparent
difference occur between plans and specifications, or should error occur in the
works of others affecting the work, the applicant shall notify the Department
at once. If the applicant proceeds with the work affected without instructions
from the Department, they shall be fully responsible for any resultant damage
or defect.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-77) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-78 SANITARY SEWER COLLECTION SYSTEM DEFINED.
   The term SANITARY SEWER COLLECTION SYSTEM means sewer piping or
appurtenances or any part thereof which serves one or more buildings and which
is located in any area where the Director of Community Development has
jurisdiction of any construction or land use.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-78) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-79 FITTINGS.
   Wherever the word PIPE is used, it shall include fittings of a like type as
the pipe.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-79) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-80—8-4-84 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-4-85 MATERIAL AND EQUIPMENT DRAWINGS.
   (A)   Fabricated materials or equipment to be incorporated in the work shall
be approved by the Department. The applicant shall obtain and check
manufacturer’s shop drawings and other pertinent data for conformance with all
requirements of this chapter and the drawings and specifications.
   (B)   After completion of such checking and verification, the applicant
shall submit the shop drawings and pertinent data to the Department for
approval. The drawings and data shall be in such detail as the Department may
require for information as to the design, installation and operation of such
items and their compliance with this chapter and the plans and specifications.
   (C)   The Department shall have ten days from the date of receipt of such
shop drawings to approve or reject the drawings.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-85) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-86 CONFORMITY WITH PLANS AND ALLOWABLE DEVIATION.
   (A)   Finished surfaces in all cases shall conform with the lines, grades,
cross sections and dimensions shown on the approved plans.
   (B)   Deviations from the approved plans as may be required by the
exigencies of construction will be determined in all cases by the Department
and authorized in writing.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-86) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-87 FURNISHING OF CONSTRUCTION WATER.
   Water used for construction and testing shall be arranged for and furnished
by the applicant at their expense.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-87) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-88 CONNECTION TO EXISTING DISTRICT FACILITIES.
   The applicant may not make a connection to existing district facilities or
interrupt sanitary sewer service in any portion of the district until the
proper procedures have been followed and the district has approved and
scheduled the connection.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-88) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-89 LIABILITY OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
   Neither the Director of Community Development, the Department nor any other
officer or authorized assistant or agent of the Department shall be personally
responsible for any liability arising out of the work performed.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-89) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-90—8-4-94 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-4-95 RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGE.
   The Department shall not be answerable or accountable in any manner for any
loss or damage that may happen to the work or any part thereof, or for any
material or equipment used in performing the work, or for injury or damage to
any person, either workers or the public, or for damages to adjoining property
from any cause whatsoever during the progress of the work or at any time.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-95) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-96 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PERMITTEE.
   The applicant shall keep themself fully informed of all laws, ordinances and
regulations which, in any manner, affect those engaged or employed in the work
or the materials used in the work, or which in any way affect the conduct of
the work, and of all such orders and decrees of bodies or tribunals having any
jurisdiction or authority over the work. If any discrepancy or inconsistency is
discovered in the plans, drawings, specifications or other documents in
relation to any such law, ordinance, regulation, order or decree, the applicant
shall forthwith report the discrepancy or inconsistency to the Department in
writing. The applicant shall at the time observe and comply with and shall
cause all of their agents and employees to observe and comply with all such
existing and future laws, ordinances, resolutions, regulations, orders and
decrees, and shall protect and indemnify the city, the City Council and the
Director of Community Development, and all of their officers and agents,
against any claim or liability arising from or based on the violation of any
such law, ordinance, regulation, order or decree, whether by themself or their
employees.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-96) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-97—8-4-106 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. SPECIAL INSPECTOR ****
§ 8-4-107 DEFINITION; DUTIES.
   For purposes of this chapter, the term SPECIAL INSPECTOR shall mean a person
employed by the applicant to inspect the work described in this chapter, who
shall be present at the job site at all times during the installation of this
work. They shall keep daily records of all work performed and shall submit
these records to the Department not later than the first day of every month, at
the completion of the work or at any time when requested by the Department.
These reports shall be approved by a qualified and licensed engineer prior to
submittal to the Department. The final approval of all work shall be by the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-107) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-108 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL.
   All special inspectors shall be examined and approved by the Department
prior to the starting of any work and shall be subject to supervision by the
Department at all times. The Department shall have the authority to have any
such inspector removed from inspection duties and reserves the right to reject
any or all inspection reports when, in the opinion of the Department, good and
sufficient cause exists for such action. The decision of the Department shall
be final. If such action becomes necessary, the applicant shall furnish or
submit a replacement special inspector for approval by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-108) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-109 DEPARTMENT ELECTION TO INSPECT.
   In the absence of any approved special inspector from the job site, the
Department may elect that the work be inspected by personnel from the
Department and charge the applicant for such inspection work at the same rate,
as prescribed in §
8-4-5, pertaining to inspection fees, for supervision.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-109) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-110—8-4-119 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 5. CONTROL OF MATERIALS ****
§ 8-4-120 SAMPLES AND TESTS.
   (A)   At the option of the Department, the source of supply of each of the
materials shall be approved by the Department before the delivery is started
and before such material is used in the work.
   (B)   All tests of materials furnished by the applicant shall be made in
accordance with the commonly recognized standards of national technical
organizations and such special methods and tests as are prescribed in this
chapter.
   (C)   The applicant shall furnish to the Department, in triplicate,
certified copies of all requested factory and mill test reports. Any materials
shipped by the applicant from a factory or mill prior to having satisfactorily
passed such testing and inspection by a representative of the Department shall
not be incorporated in the work, unless the Department shall have notified the
applicant in writing that such testing and inspection will not be required.
   (D)   The applicant shall furnish and deliver to the laboratory such samples
of materials as are requested by the Department without charge. No material
shall be used until it has been approved by the Department. Samples will be
secured and tested whenever necessary to determine the quality of the material.
All laboratory testing fees are to be paid by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-120) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-121 DEFECTIVE MATERIALS.
   All materials not conforming to this chapter shall be considered defective,
and all such materials, whether in place or not, shall be rejected and shall be
removed immediately from the site of the work, unless otherwise permitted by
the Department. No rejected material, the defects of which have been
subsequently corrected, shall be used until approved in writing by the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-121) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-122—8-4-131 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 6. VITRIFIED CLAY PIPE ****
§ 8-4-132 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   All vitrified clay pipe and fittings shall be of one class designated “extra
strength”, of the best quality, vitrified, homogenous in structure, thoroughly
burned throughout their entire thickness, impervious to moisture, sound and
free from cracks, checks, blisters, broken extremities or other imperfections,
and must give a metallic ring when struck with a hammer. Pipe shall be bell-
and-spigot pipe, unless otherwise approved. Pipe ends shall be square with the
longitudinal axis, and sockets shall be true, circular and concentric with the
barrel of the pipe. The thickness of the shell, the depth of the socket and the
dimension of the annular space shall be within the limits of permissible
variation to dimension standards of the specifications of the Clay Pipe
Institute, 2600 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90057, and to the
applicable provisions of ASTM designation C-200, for the size of pipe indicated
on the plans. All pipe and special fittings shall comply with the applicable
provisions of the vitrified clay pipe specifications of the Clay Pipe Institute
in respect to the hydrostatic pressure test, size, shape and three-edge bearing
load test and all other requirements of such specifications.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-132) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-133 IDENTIFICATION MARKS.
   All pipe or fittings shall be clearly marked with the name of the
manufacturer or with a trademark of a size and type which has been approved by
and filed with the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-133) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-134 TESTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Before being used in any work under this chapter, pipe shall be
subjected to and shall meet the requirements of the hydrostatic pressure test
and loading test specified in this subchapter. These tests shall be made by the
applicant and shall be witnessed by a reputable testing laboratory. The
applicant shall deliver the pipe selected for testing to the place and at the
time designated by the testing laboratory. All costs of furnishing,
transporting and handling the pipe for testing and conducting the tests shall
be borne by the applicant. In lieu of witnessing by a testing laboratory, the
applicant may furnish a certified statement from the pipe manufacturer stating
that all prescribed tests have been made and that pipe to be used on the
project has met all requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The testing laboratory shall select at random for testing as specified
in this subchapter up to 2% of the number of pipes in each size of pipe
furnished, except that in no case shall less than five specimens be tested.
   (C)   The specimens selected for testing purposes shall be sound pipe having
dimensions consistent with this chapter. The lots from which the test samples
are taken shall be sufficient to fill the entire order for that size of pipe
used in the work under permit, and, if they pass the tests, shall be so
designated and marked.
   (D)   All pipe shall be subject to inspection at the factory, trench or
other point of delivery by the Department. The purpose of the inspection shall
be to cull and reject any pipe that, independent of the physical tests
specified in this section, fail to conform to the requirements of this chapter,
or that may have been damaged during transportation or in subsequent handling.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-134) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-135 HYDROSTATIC TEST.
   (A)   In lieu of the standard ASTM absorption test, the following
hydrostatic pressure test shall be substituted.
   (B)   The hydrostatic pressure test shall precede the loading test by not
less than one hour and not more than three hours and shall be applied to all
the specimens received for test in each size of pipe.
   (C)   When subjected to an internal hydrostatic pressure often pounds per
square inch for the time specified in this division (C), the accumulated
moisture on the exterior surface of the pipe shall not run down the sides in
such quantity that it will exceed ten milliliters.
 
Thickness of Barrel (inches) Minimum Testing Time (minutes)
Up to and including 1        7
Over 1 and including 1 1/2   9
Over 1 1/2 and including 2   12
Over 2 and including 2 1/2   15
Over 2 1/2 and including 3   18
Over 3                       21
 
(Prior Code, § 8-4-135) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-136 LOADING TEST.
   (A)   (1)   The loading test shall be the three-edge bearing. The loading
tests shall conform to the applicable provisions of ASTM designation C-301, and
shall be applied to all specimens selected for testing, except that loading to
test ultimate strength will not be required.
      (2)   Pipe shall withstand the following loads:
Normal Pipe Size Minimum Test Loads (pounds per linear foot)
Normal Pipe Size           Minimum Test Loads (pounds per linear foot)
4, 6 and 8                 2,000
Capacity of Tank (gallons) Class of Flammable LiquidMinimum Distance (feet)
0 to 275                   III0
276 to 750                 III5
0 to 750                   I and II10
751 to 12,000              III10
751 to 12,000              I and II15
12,001 to 24,000           I, II and III15
24,001 to 30,000           I, II and III20
30,001 to 50,000           I, II and III25
 
   (B)   The net inside length of the pipe from the bottom of the socket to the
spigot end of the pipe shall be used as the divisor to calculate the load per
linear foot.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-136) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-137—8-4-141 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-4-142 ACCEPTANCE OR REJECTION OF RESULT OF TEST.
   (A)   If all or the minimum designated percentage or number of the specimens
tested meets the requirements of the test, then all of the pipe in the lot,
shipment or delivery corresponding to the sizes and classes so tested shall be
considered as complying with the test. If, however, 10% or more of the
specimens tested fail to meet the requirements of the test, or if more than one
specimen fails to meet the requirements of the test when the number to be
tested is less than ten, then a second selection of pipe shall be made for that
test. The number of specimens to be tested in the second selection of pipe
shall be five for each specimen of the first selection that failed to meet the
requirements.
   (B)   If 90% of the specimens tested, including those first tested, meet the
requirements of the test, all the pipe in the lot, shipment or delivery
corresponding to the sizes and classes so tested shall be considered as
complying with that test; otherwise, all pipe of these sizes and classes shall
be rejected.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-142) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-143 INSPECTION INDEPENDENT OF TEST.
   The imperfections in a pipe or special fitting described in §§ 8-4-144
through 8-4-155 will be considered injurious and cause for rejection without
consideration of the test results specified in §§
8-4-135 through
8-4-142.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-143) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-144 CRACKED PIPE.
   A single crack in the barrel of the pipe, extending through the entire
thickness, regardless of the length of such crack; a single crack which extends
through one-fifth of the barrel thickness and is over three inches long; and
any surface fire crack which is more than 1/32-inch wide at its widest point
will cause rejection.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-144) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-145 SURFACE IMPERFECTIONS.
   Surface imperfections, such as lumps, blisters, pits or flakes on the
interior surface of a pipe or fitting, will cause rejection.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-145) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-146 SOCKET OUT-OF-ROUND.
   A variance of the bore or socket of the pipe from a true circle more than 3%
of its nominal diameter will cause rejection.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-146) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-147—8-4-151 RESERVED
.[Reserved]
§ 8-4-152 DEVIATION IN STRAIGHT PIPE.
   The pipe or fitting will be rejected if it is designated to be straight and
it deviates from a straight line more than one-eighths inch per lineal foot.
The deviation shall be measured from a straight edge at a point midway between
the ends of the pipe.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-152) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-153 BROKEN PIPE.
   A joint of pipe with a piece broken from either the socket or spigot end
will be rejected.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-153) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-154 FOREIGN MATTER FUSED TO PIPE.
   Pipe joints that have tramp clays, grog or other foreign matter fused
permanently to the exterior or interior surface of the pipe or fitting will be
rejected.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-154) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-155 GENERAL SOUNDNESS OF PIPE.
   If, when the joint is placed in a vertical position, the pipe does not give
a metallic ring when struck with a hammer, the joint will be rejected.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-155) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-156 VITRIFIED CLAY PIPE JOINTS.
   (A)   All vitrified clay pipe and fittings shall be furnished with
mechanical compression joints. The compression joint on the spigot-and-bell
ends of the pipe shall be factory-made of plastisol or other approved resilient
element bonded onto the outside of the spigot and the inside of the bell to the
pipe and molded and cured to a uniform hardness and compressibility, to form a
tight compression coupling when assembled. Materials for compression joints
shall conform to ASTM designation C-425.
   (B)   Where pipe from different manufacturers is to be jointed together, an
adapter pipe with the proper matching joint on each end for the respective
manufacturer shall be used. Hot-poured joints or concrete encasement of plain
end joints will not be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-156) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-157—8-4-161 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-4-162 OTHER TYPES OF JOINTS AND PIPE.
   The applicant may submit for approval any other type of joint and pipe which
they believe equal or superior to those specified in this subchapter, and the
alternate method shall be submitted in writing at least 15 days in advance of
the start of work. The Department shall be the sole judge as to whether any
material submitted for approval is equal or superior to those specified. No
unspecified material shall be used until approved by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-162) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-163 BRANCHES.
   (A)   Branches of the type shown on the plans shall be furnished with
connections of the sizes specified, and shall be securely and completely
fastened to the barrel of the pipe in the process of manufacture. This shall be
accomplished by fusion during vitrification. In the case of pipe 15 inches or
greater in diameter, fusion during vitrification will not be required, but, if
not fused, in addition to other fastening material of approved quality, there
shall be a reinforcing collar of portland cement mortar around the outside of
the joint, and there shall be no exposure of portland cement mortar on the
interior surface of the pipe. Tee branches shall have their axis perpendicular
to the longitudinal axis of the pipe. Unless otherwise specified on the plans,
wye branches shall have their axis approximately 45 degrees to the longitudinal
axis of the pipe, measured from the socket end. All branches shall terminate in
sockets and the barrel of the branch shall be of sufficient length to permit
making a proper joint when the connecting pipe is inserted in the branch
socket.
   (B)   The quality of vitrified clay pipe branches shall conform to the
applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Joints for branches shall conform to §
8-4-156.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-163) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-164 STOPPERS.
   (A)   Vitrified clay stoppers shall be three-fourths inch in thickness and
shall have a factory-made plasticized polyvinyl chloride compound joint
material cast and bonded to the pipe. The material shall be molded and cured to
a uniform hardness and compressibility to form a tight compression coupling
when assembled. The material used for the compression joint shall conform to
ASTM designation C-425. Other types of stoppers may be used as approved by the
Department.
   (B)   When neoprene (synthetic rubber) stoppers are used, the joint formed
by the stopper and clay pipe shall be a tight compression coupling when
assembled.
   (C)   All joints for stoppers shall be adequate to withstand the internal
pressure of the leakage and infiltration test; however, joints shall be made in
such a manner that they may be removed without injury to the socket.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-164) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-165—8-4-174 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 7. PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE ****
§ 8-4-175 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   All portland cement concrete shall conform to the provisions of § 90 of the
State Specifications, except as is modified in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-175) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-176 CLASS A.
   Class A concrete shall contain 564 pounds (six sacks) of portland cement per
cubic yard.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-176) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-177 CLASS B.
   Class B concrete shall contain 470 pounds (five sacks) of portland cement
per cubic yard.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-177) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-178 CLASS C.
   Class C concrete shall contain 376 pounds (four sacks) of portland cement
per cubic yard.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-178) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-179 CLASS D.
   Class D concrete shall contain 658 pounds (seven sacks) of portland cement
per cubic yard.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-179) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-180—8-4-184 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-4-185 CEMENT.
   Portland cement, including portland cement used in precast products, shall
be Type II or Type V, conforming to the specifications of ASTM designation C-
150.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-185) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-186 REINFORCING.
   The reinforcing steel shall be deformed new billet steel bars, intermediate
or hard grade, conforming to the specifications of ASTM designations A-15 and
A-408 or A-305.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-186) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-187—8-4-196 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 8. PRECAST PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE MANHOLES ****
§ 8-4-197 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Precast portland cement concrete manhole risers and tops shall be
constructed of Class A concrete and shall conform to the specifications of ASTM
designation C-478, except as is modified in this subchapter.
   (B)   The applicant shall submit shop drawings of the precast manhole they
propose to use for the approval of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-197) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-198 FABRICATION.
   (A)   The minimum nominal shell thickness for formed and vibrated sections
shall be one-eighth of the internal diameter of the riser or largest cone
diameter, and for centrifugally spun sections one-twelfth of the internal
diameter of the riser or largest cone diameter.
   (B)   Manholes shall be fabricated only from eccentric taper sections or
eccentric flat top sections and standard cylinder units of the proper internal
diameter. The minimum allowable steel shall be hoops of number four wire, to be
cast into each unit at adequate places as a precautionary measure for handling.
   (C)   The manhole sections shall be cast without ladder rungs.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-198) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-199—8-4-208 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 9. MANHOLE FRAMES, COVERS AND CLEANOUTS ****
§ 8-4-209 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Gray iron castings for manhole frame and cover sets shall conform to
the specifications of ASTM designation A-48, for class number 30 castings.
   (B)   The frames and covers shall be ground or otherwise finished so that
they will fit in the frame without rocking, and after such finish shall be
match-marked in sets. The covers shall have the word “SEWER” cast thereon, and
no other lettering on the top side will be permitted except by approval of the
Department.
   (C)   The castings shall be true to pattern, form and dimension, and free
from pouring faults, sponginess, cracks, blowholes or other defects in
locations affecting their strength and nature for the service intended.
   (D)   All castings shall be thoroughly cleaned and subjected to a hammer
inspection, after which they shall be dipped twice in a preparation of asphalt,
or coal tar and oil, applied at a temperature of not less than 290°F and not
more than 310°F, and in such a manner as to form a firm and tenacious coating.
   (E)   The castings shall be cleaned and dipped in the foundry of the
manufacturer prior to delivery to the site of the work.
   (F)   Shop drawings of all manhole rings and covers shall be submitted to
the Department for approval.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-209) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-210 CLEANOUTS.
   All cleanouts shall be brought to grade in the same pipe and size as the
line which the cleanout serves and shall be installed as per detail drawing
number nine, standard lamphole (cleanout). In unpaved areas, they shall be
brought to grade in a manner acceptable to the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-210) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-211—8-4-220 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 10. STEEL CASING PIPE ****
§ 8-4-221 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Steel casing pipe shall be butt-welded sheets conforming to the
specifications of ASTM designation A-570/A-570M, commercial grade or of plate
conforming to the specifications of ASTM designation A-283.
   (B)   All field joints also shall be butt-welded full circumference or by
other means approved by the Department. Use of a jacking band to reinforce the
end of the pipe receiving the jacking thrust will be required. It shall be the
applicant’s responsibility to provide joints which are capable of resisting the
jacking stresses without failure.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-221) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-222—8-4-231 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 11. EPOXY RESIN ****
§ 8-4-232 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   All saddle connections and approved repair work to sewer mains shall be
accomplished with approved epoxy resins.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-232) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-233—8-4-242 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 12. EARTHWORK ****
§ 8-4-243 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Earthwork shall include all necessary clearing, grubbing, grading and
excavation for pipelines and appurtenances, backfilling, compaction and
disposal of excess excavated material, all as required for the complete
performance of the work for the installation of sewers, manholes, special
structures and appurtenances, all as indicated on the plans and as specified in
this chapter.
   (B)   Earthwork, including grading, as referred to in this subchapter or in
connection with this subchapter, shall be construed as including any or all of
the following described operations: clearing of the construction site;
excavation of all classes and of whatever substance encountered; backfilling;
fine grading as finish for unpaved areas; preparation of right-of-way, subgrade
for pipe, structures and paving; and performing any other similar, incidental
or appurtenant earthwork operation which may be necessary to properly complete
the entire work indicated and specified.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-243) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-244 CLEARING AND GRUBBING.
   Areas where work is to be performed shall be cleared of all trees, shrubs,
rubbish and other objectionable material of any kind which, if left in place,
would interfere with the proper performance or completion of the contemplated
work, would impair its subsequent use or would form obstructions therein.
Organic material from clearing and grubbing operations will not be incorporated
in excavation backfill.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-244) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-245 EXCAVATION.
   Excavation for sewer pipe, fittings and appurtenances shall be open trench
to the depth and in the direction necessary for the proper installation of the
pipe, fittings and appurtenances as shown on the plans or as otherwise approved
by the Department. Any water which may be encountered or may accumulate in the
excavation shall be pumped out or otherwise removed as necessary to keep the
bottom of the excavation free and clear of water during the progress of the
work. Tunneling may be permitted as indicated by economy of construction or
necessity of preserving existing improvements. If the earth in the tunnel
sloughs off, the roof of the tunnel shall be broken down and the trench
excavated as an open trench.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-245) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-246 MAXIMUM LENGTH OF TRENCH.
   Except by special permission of the Department, the maximum length of open
trench shall not exceed 1,500 feet in the aggregate at any one location,
including excavation, construction, pipe laying and embankment.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-246) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-247 TRENCH WIDTH.
   (A)   The overall trench width shall not be more than 16 inches or less than
12 inches wider than the largest outside diameter of the pipe to be laid
therein, measured at a point 12 inches above the top of the pipe exclusive of
branches. Excavation and trenching shall be true to line so that a clear space
of not more than eight inches or less than six inches in width is provided on
each side of the largest outside diameter of the pipe in place. For the purpose
of this subchapter, the largest outside diameter shall be the outside diameter
of the bell on bell-and-spigot pipe.
   (B)   Where the trench width, measured at a point 12 inches above the top of
the bell of the pipe, is wider than the maximum set forth in division (A)
above, the trench area around the pipe shall be backfilled with Class C
concrete to form a cradle for the pipe as shown on the detail drawings.
Alternate methods of backfilling may be submitted by the applicant for approval
by the Department, and the Department may approve such alternate method when,
in its judgment, it will afford adequate protection to the piping.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-247) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-248—8-4-252 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-4-253 BRACING.
   The applicant shall take the necessary precautions to be consistent with the
rules, orders and regulations of the California Division of Industrial Safety.
Excavations shall be so braced, sheeted and supported that they will be safe,
and the ground alongside the excavation will not slide or settle, and all
existing improvements of any kind, either on public or private property, will
be fully protected from damage. The sheeting, shoring and bracing shall be so
arranged as not to place any stress on portions of the completed work until the
general construction thereof has proceeded far enough to provide ample
strength. Care shall be exercised in the drawing or removal of sheeting,
shoring, bracing and timbering to prevent the caving or collapse of the
excavation faces which are being supported.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-253) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-254 CORRECTION OF FAULTY GRADES.
   (A)   Where excavation is inadvertently carried below subgrade or foundation
elevations, suitable provision shall be made by the applicant for adjustment of
the excavation, as directed by the Department, to meet requirements incurred by
the deeper excavation beneath pipe or structures.
   (B)   Overdepth excavation in such locations shall be rectified by
backfilling with approved and graded gravel, and shall be compacted to provide
a firm and unyielding subgrade or foundation, as directed by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-254) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-255 GRADING AND STOCKPILING.
   The applicant shall control grading in a manner to prevent water running
into excavations. Obstruction of surface drainage shall be avoided and means
shall be provided whereby stormwater and waste water can flow uninterruptedly
in existing gutters, other than surface drains or temporary drains.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-255) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-256 DEWATERING.
   (A)   The applicant shall provide and maintain at all times during
construction, ample means and devices with which to promptly remove and
properly dispose of all water from any source entering the excavations or other
parts of the work. Dewatering shall be accomplished by methods which will
ensure a dry excavation and preservation of the final lines and grades of the
bottoms of excavations. Such methods may include well points, sump points,
suitable rock or gravel placed below the required bedding for drainage and
pumping purposes, temporary pipelines and other means, all subject to the
approval of the Department.
   (B)   Dewatering for the structures and pipelines shall commence when
groundwater is first encountered, and shall be continuous until such time as
water can be allowed to rise in accordance with the provisions of this section.
No concrete footings or floors shall be laid in water nor shall water be
allowed to rise over them until the concrete or mortar has set at least eight
hours. Water shall not be allowed to rise unequally against walls for a period
of 28 days.
   (C)   Groundwater shall not be allowed to rise around the pipe until
jointing compound in the joints has set hard.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-256) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-257 GRANULAR SOIL.
   Wherever the term GRANULAR SOIL is used in this chapter, it shall be defined
as a soil having a minimum sand equivalent of 30 as determined in accordance
with California Division of Highways Test No. California 217, and of which not
more than 20% will pass through a 200 mesh sieve.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-257) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-258—8-4-262 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-4-263 TRENCH BOTTOM FOR SEWER PIPE.
   (A)   The trench bottom shall be graded to provide a smooth, firm and stable
foundation at every point throughout the length of the pipe. At each joint in
the pipe, the bottom of the trench shall be recessed in the firm foundation in
such a manner as to relieve the bell of the pipe of all load, and to ensure
continuous bearing along the pipe barrel upon the firm foundation. Should large
gravel and cobbles be encountered at the trench bottom or pipe subgrade, they
shall be removed from beneath the pipe and replaced with clean granular
material, which shall be compacted to provide uniform support and a firm
foundation.
   (B)   The applicant shall be responsible for accurately shaping the pipe
subgrade and fitting the bottom of the pipe to the excavation for the width
shown on the bedding details. Use of a drag templet shaped to conform to the
outer surface of the pipe will be required if other methods do not give
satisfactory results.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-263) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-264 FOUNDATIONS IN ROCK.
   Where rock is encountered, it shall be removed below grade and the trench
backfilled with clean imported sand to provide a compacted foundation cushion
with a minimum allowable thickness of three inches under the outside diameter
of the pipe bell.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-264) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-265 FOUNDATIONS IN UNSUITABLE MATERIAL.
   If excessively wet, soft, spongy, unstable or similarly unsuitable material
is encountered at the surface upon which the bedding material is to be placed,
the unsuitable material shall be removed to a depth as determined in the field
by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-265) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-266 FOUNDATION IN SUITABLE SOIL.
   Where the trench excavation and pipe foundation or subgrade consists of
granular or sandy material, the pipe shall be bedded in the material found in
the trench as specified in this subchapter. If the trench excavation material
and pipe foundation are not an acceptable granular material for bedding, an
imported or selected granular material shall be used for bedding. In all cases,
the material to be used for pipe bedding will be subject to the approval of the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-266) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-267 TRENCH BACKFILL.
   (A)   All trenches shall be backfilled after pipe, fittings and
appurtenances have been installed. Whenever a relative compaction requirement
value is specified in this chapter, the optimum moisture content and relative
density shall be determined in accordance with California Division of Highways
Test No. California 216.
   (B)   All wood and waste material shall be removed from the excavation
preparatory to backfilling. Backfill material shall be approved in all cases by
the Department and shall be free of trash, wood, large rock or other
objectionable debris. Backfilling shall include the refilling and compacting of
the fill in trenches or excavations up to the subgrade of the street or to the
existing ground surface.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-267) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-268—8-4-272 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-4-273 PIPE BEDDING.
   The pipe shall be carefully bedded by hand placing and compacting and
consolidating select or imported granular backfill material from the pipe
foundation to the upper limit of the pipe zone. The pipe zone shall be
considered to extend from the pipe foundation to 12 inches above the top of the
outside diameter of the pipe bell. Imported granular material will be used for
pipe bedding when excavated materials are not suitable or when required by the
bedding detail indicated on the construction drawings.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-273) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-274 PROCEDURE AT PIPE ZONE.
   Selected backfill material consisting of loose earth or sand free from
stones, clods or other deleterious material shall be placed in the trench
simultaneously on each side of the pipe for the full width of the trench in
layers of about six inches in depth. Each layer shall be thoroughly compacted,
or consolidated when approved by the Department, to a relative density of 90%.
Care shall be exercised in backfilling to avoid damage to the pipe.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-274) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-275 BACKFILL ABOVE PIPE ZONE.
   The remaining portion of the trench above the pipe zone to within two and
one-half feet of the roadway surface or ground surface, as the case may be,
shall be backfilled, compacted and consolidated by approved methods to obtain a
relative density of 90%. Backfilling shall be done with good, sound earth, sand
or gravel, and no oil cake, bituminous pavement, concrete, rock or other lumpy
material shall be used in the backfill, unless these materials are scattered
and do not exceed six inches in any dimension, and are not placed within one
foot of the two and one-half foot limit. Material of a perishable, spongy or
otherwise improper nature shall not be used in backfilling, and no material
greater than four inches in any dimension shall be placed within one foot of
any pipe, manhole or structure.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-275) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-276 COMPACTION IN OPEN FIELDS.
   In open fields across private property within easements, where paving or
structures will not be above the excavated area, backfill above the pipe zone
to the top of the trench shall be compacted and consolidated by approved
methods to obtain a density equal to the density of the adjacent undisturbed
soil, but not less than a relative density of 90%.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-276) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-277 BACKFILL AT STREET ZONE.
   (A)   The top two and one-half feet of the trench within roadbed areas shall
be compacted in horizontal layers not exceeding eight inches in thickness,
using approved hand, pneumatic or mechanical type tampers to obtain a relative
density of 90%. Flooding and jetting will not be permitted in this upper two
and one-half feet.
   (B)   From existing street grade to two and one-half feet below street
grade, the material for backfill may contain stones ranging in sizes up to two
inches in diameter in quantity not exceeding 20% of the volume where such
coarse materials are well-distributed throughout the finer material and the
specified compaction can be obtained.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-277) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-278—8-4-282 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-4-283 COMPACTION METHOD.
   Compaction shall be done by use of vibratory equipment, tamping rollers,
pneumatic tire rollers or other mechanical tampers of the type and size
approved by the Department. The backfill shall be placed in horizontal layers
of such depths as are considered proper for the type of compacting equipment
being used in relation to the backfill material being placed. Each layer shall
be evenly spread, properly moistened and compacted to the specified relative
density in §
8-4-276. The applicant shall repair or replace any sewer pipe fittings,
manholes or structures as directed by the Department where damaged by the
applicant’s operations.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-283) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-284 CONSOLIDATION.
   (A)   Consolidation of fill shall be performed by flooding, poling or
jetting so as to obtain a relative density of the fill material at least equal
to that specified in §
8-4-276. When flooding, poling or jetting methods are used, material for use as
backfill shall be placed and consolidated in layers not exceeding four feet in
thickness. Flooding, poling or jetting methods shall be supplemented by the use
of vibratory or other compaction equipment when necessary to obtain the
required relative density. Care shall be taken in all consolidating operations
to prevent the movement or floating of the sewer pipe.
   (B)   Consolidation methods shall not be used where the backfill material is
not sufficiently granular in nature to be self-draining during and after
consolidation, or where foundation materials may be softened or otherwise
damaged by the quantities of water applied. The applicant shall rectify any
misalignment of the pipe because of consolidation operations as directed by the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-284) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-285 TESTING OF COMPACTION.
   (A)   The applicant will engage the services of an approved testing
laboratory to determine the relative density of the backfill. The relative
density shall be determined in accordance with the methods specified by the
California Division of Highways Test No. California 216.
   (B)   If the backfill fails to meet the relative density requirements set
forth in this subchapter, the applicant shall rework the backfill until the
requirements are complied with.
   (C)   The applicant shall make all necessary excavations for density tests
as directed by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-285) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-286 REMOVAL OF EXCESS EXCAVATED MATERIAL.
   (A)   The applicant shall make the necessary arrangements for and shall
remove and dispose of all excess excavated material.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter that all surplus material not
required for backfill or fill shall be disposed of by the applicant outside the
limits of the public rights-of-way and easements, and shall be subject to all
provisions and regulations of the excavation and grading code of the city.
   (C)   No excavated material shall be deposited on private property, unless
written permission from the owner thereof is secured by the applicant. Before
the Department will accept the work, the applicant shall file a written lease
signed by all property owners with whom they have entered into agreements for
disposal of excess excavated material, absolving the Department from any
liability connected therewith.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-286) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-287 USE OF IMPORTED BACKFILL MATERIAL.
   Whenever the excavated material is not suitable for backfill, the applicant
shall arrange for and furnish suitable imported backfill material which is
capable of attaining the required relative density. They shall dispose of the
excess trench excavation as specified in §
8-4-286. The backfilling with imported material shall be done in accordance
with the methods described in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-287) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-288—8-4-292 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-4-293 STRUCTURE EXCAVATION.
   Structure excavation shall include the removal of all material of whatever
nature necessary for the construction of structures and foundations in
accordance with the plans and this chapter. The sides of excavations for
structures shall be sufficient to leave at least two feet in the clear as
measured from the extreme outside of formwork or the structure, as the case may
be. Where excavation is inadvertently carried below designated elevations,
suitable provision shall be made by the applicant for adjustment of
construction, as directed by the Department, to meet requirements incurred by
the deeper excavation. No earth backfill will be permitted to correct overdepth
excavation beneath structures, and overdepth excavation in such locations shall
be rectified by backfilling with sand, graded gravel or concrete as directed by
the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-293) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-294 STRUCTURE BACKFILL.
   After structures and foundations are in place, backfill shall be placed to
the original ground line or to the limits designated on the plans. No material
shall be deposited against the walls of concrete structures for a period of 14
days following pouring of concrete.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-294) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-295 BACKFILL MATERIAL.
   Backfill material shall consist of loose earth or sand free from stones,
clods or other deleterious materials. When material from the excavation is
unsuitable for use in backfill, it shall be disposed of as specified in §
8-4-286, and suitable material, which is capable of attaining the required
relative density, shall be used in its place.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-295) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-296 COMPACTION OF BACKFILL.
   Backfill shall be placed in horizontal layers not exceeding six inches in
depth and shall be moistened and thoroughly tamped, rolled or otherwise
compacted to a minimum relative density of 90% in accordance with the
provisions of §
8-4-267. Water settling will not be permitted except with the written
permission of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-296) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-297 FINAL CLEANUP.
   After backfill has been completed, the job site shall be dressed smooth and
left in a neat and presentable condition.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-297) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-298—8-4-307 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 13. SEWER PIPE AND FITTINGS ****
§ 8-4-308 LAYING SEWER PIPE.
   Trenches shall be kept free of water during the laying operation and until
the material in the joints has set sufficiently to preclude any damage. All
pipe shall be laid without break, upgrade from structure to structure, with the
bell ends of the pipe upgrade. Pipe shall be laid to the line and grade given
and in such a manner as to form a close concentric joint with the adjoining
pipe and prevent sudden offsets of the flow line. The interior of the sewer
pipe shall be cleaned of all dirt and superfluous materials of all description
as the work progresses. The provisions of Subchapter12 shall apply to the
installation of the pipe.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-308) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-309 FLEXIBLE COMPRESSION JOINTS.
   The applicant shall wipe the mating surfaces of the pipe to be joined clean
of all dirt and foreign matter, and apply an approved lubricant. Then, with the
surfaces properly lubricated, the applicant shall position the spigot end of
the pipe inside the bell and shove the joint home. For larger diameter pipe
where a lever attachment is required, the applicant shall take the necessary
precautions to ensure an undamaged pipe installation.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-309) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-310 PREVENTION OF FOREIGN MATTER FROM ENTERING PIPE.
   At times when the pipe laying is not in progress, the open end of the pipe
shall be closed with a tightfitting cap or plug to prevent the entrance of
foreign matter into the pipe. These provisions shall apply during the noon hour
as well as overnight. In no event shall the sewers be used as drains for
removing water which has infiltrated into the trenches.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-310) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-311 BRANCHES.
   Sewer pipe wyes and tees and other types of branches shall be furnished and
installed along with sewer pipe. Wyes of size specified on the plans shall be
installed for all sewer house connections and for future sewer house
connections as shown on the plans. Tees shall be installed for chimneys shown
on the plans. The longitudinal barrel of branch fittings, to be placed in line
and grade with the sanitary sewer mains, shall be of the same diameter, quality
and type as the sewer. Installation, earthwork and bedding for branches shall
conform to the applicable provisions set forth for sewer pipes. Tee branches,
when permitted, shall have their axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of
the pipe. Unless otherwise specified, the branch of wye fittings shall be
inclined upward at an angle not greater than 45 degrees from a horizontal line.
No wye or tee for sewer house connection branches shall be placed closer than
five feet in the downstream side, to the centerline of any structure.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-311) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-312 SADDLE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All saddle connections into existing sewer lines shall be made with a
collar wye saddle, or a collar tee saddle for chimneys, and no saddle
connection smaller than four inches or larger than six inches will be
permitted. Saddle connections will be permitted on lines 24 inches or under in
size. Six-inch saddle connections will only be permitted on sewers ten inches
and larger. Lines eight inches and larger shall connect to main line sewers by
means of standard manholes.
   (B)   The quality of the pipe saddles shall conform to the applicable
provisions of Subchapter 6. Joints for the saddles shall conform to §§
8-4-156 and
8-4-162.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-312) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-313 SADDLE INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The sewer line to be saddled shall be scored to the approximate shape
of the wye or tee and shall be cut with a circular ceramic saw of two-inch,
four-inch or six-inch diameter. The resulting opening into the sewer line shall
be further worked by hand to accomplish a true and neat opening for the collar
wye or tee saddle. In lieu of the circular ceramic saw method, the contractor
may drill a series of one-half inch to three-eighths inch holes one inch apart
on the elliptical scored line for the saddle connections, and also across the
lateral and longitudinal surface of the elliptical plug, and then, using a
pointed tool similar to a mason’s pick or a cape chisel, chip out the saddle
opening. The edge of the opening shall be worked further by hand as specified
in this division (A). The applicant shall replace or repair any pipe damaged
during their operation, and the Department shall be the sole judge as to how
the repair or replacement should be accomplished.
   (B)   The applicant shall secure the collar wye or tee saddle to the sewer
main with a catalytic epoxy resin as specified in Subchapter 11. The saddle
shall be tied to the main with wire of sufficient strength so that no movement
will occur during the setting of the epoxy resin.
   (C)   After the connection has set sufficiently long enough for the epoxy
resin to cure, the Department will inspect the connection, and if satisfactory,
the applicant shall encase the fitting with Class A portland cement concrete.
   (D)   The applicant shall carry out the saddling operation only in the most
workmanlike manner, and they shall keep all chips, dirt, epoxy, mortar and
concrete out of the sewer line being saddled. The applicant shall, if directed
to do so by the Department, perform a flushing, cleaning and balling operation
of the reach of sewer main saddled.
   (E)   As an alternate method of cutting an opening in sewer lines ten inches
and under, the applicant may chip the opening by following the following
procedure: the main line sewer shall be scored to the approximate shape of the
collar wye saddle or collar tee saddle. A small hole, not larger than one-inch
in diameter, shall be made in the approximate center of the area to be cut from
the sewer line with a pointed tool similar to a mason’s pick. Then, the opening
shall be chipped to the scored line in a spiraling fashion with a chisel and a
short-handle hand-held hammer. The applicant shall replace or repair any pipe
damaged during their operation, and the Department shall be the sole judge as
to how the repair or replacement should be accomplished. The Department shall
be the sole judge as to the method to be used, based upon the competency of the
worker, and in no case shall the work be done without the presence of an
inspector.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-313) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-314—8-4-323 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 14. HOUSE LATERALS ****
§ 8-4-324 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The applicant shall install house laterals and wye branch fittings of
the size indicated on the plans and shall install the house laterals at the
recommended location for each lot or building drain stub-out.
   (B)   The applicant shall place as many wye branch fittings for house
laterals as may be designated on the plans. Each wye branch fitting shall have
its barrel diameter equal to the diameter of the sanitary sewer main and the
spur or branch diameter as indicated on the plans. The spur pipe of wye branch
fittings shall be inclined at an angle of 45 degrees from the horizontal line.
No wye branch shall be placed closer than five feet, on the downstream side, to
the centerline of any structure. All wye branch fittings that are to be left
unconnected shall be plugged with an approved disc stopper or plug. House
laterals shall be joined to wye branch fittings at the sanitary sewer main as
set forth in Subchapter 13 by eighths bends. All eighths bends and quarter
bends are a part of house lateral sewer line.
   (C)   Where possible, all house laterals shall run perpendicular to the
sewer main from the main to the property line, and all house laterals shall be
bedded the same as the sewer main into which they connect.
   (D)   All house laterals shall be plugged with an approved stopper in the
socket of the last joint of each house lateral, which shall be securely sealed
in place with sewer joint compound, as specified in Subchapter 6, so that it
will withstand the internal pressure during the test for leakage, but also in
such a manner that it may be removed without injury to the socket.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-324) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-325 MARKING OF LOCATION.
   The applicant shall mark the location of each house lateral at its upper end
in a manner acceptable to the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-325) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-326—8-4-335 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 15. CHIMNEYS ****
§ 8-4-336 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   The vitrified clay pipe sewer chimneys shall be encased with Class A
portland cement concrete to the form and dimensions as shown on the detail
drawings. The base of the concrete encasement shall be poured against firm,
undisturbed earth of sufficient area to support the weight of the chimney. Wyes
at the chimney inlet are to be as shown on the detail drawings.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-336) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-337—8-4-346 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 16. MANHOLES ****
§ 8-4-347 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Sewer manholes shall be constructed in accordance with the detail
drawings and of the size indicated at the locations shown on the plans.
   (B)   The manholes shall be constructed of precast eccentric concrete
manhole units in accordance with the detail drawings of this chapter.
   (C)   Manholes shall be built without steps.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-347) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-348 MANHOLE BASE.
   (A)   The manhole base shall be poured in place with portland cement
concrete. The manhole stubs and sewer main shall be set before the concrete is
placed and shall be rechecked for alignment and grade before the concrete has
set. The various inlets and outlets to the manhole shall be located as
indicated on the plans and as detailed in the detail drawings. All transition
shall be smooth and of the proper radius to give an uninterrupted transition of
flow. The concrete shall be Class A concrete with three-fourths inch maximum
size aggregate and shall have a slump not greater than two inches. The concrete
base shall be shaped with a wood float and shall receive a hard steel trowel
finish prior to the concrete setting.
   (B)   If additional mortar is required after initial set has taken place,
the surface to receive the mortar shall be primed, and the mortar mixed with an
approved concrete adhesive in the amounts and proportions as recommended by the
manufacturer and as directed by the Department in order to secure as chip-proof
a result as possible.
   (C)   The bases shall set a minimum of 24 hours before the manhole
construction is continued. In certain critical situations, the time of setting
may be reduced upon approval of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-348) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-349 MANHOLE INVERT.
   The invert of the manhole base shall be hand worked so as to provide
channels conforming in size and shape to the lower portions of the inlets and
outlets. The channel shall vary uniformly in size and shape from inlet to
outlet, and be constructed as indicated on the detail drawings. The manhole
invert channels shall be smooth and accurately shaped. Channels may be formed
directly in the concrete base or may consist of half sewer tile laid in the
concrete base.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-349) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-350 PRECAST MANHOLES.
   (A)   Each manhole section shall be set in a bed of mortar to make a
watertight joint and shall be neatly pointed on the inside and shall be set
perfectly plumb. Sections of various heights shall be used in order to bring
the top of the manhole ring and cover to the elevation established by the
engineer.
   (B)   The precast concrete manhole rings shall be jointed with a minimum
thickness of one-half inch of portland cement mortar. Mortar shall be composed
of one part portland cement to two parts of clean well-graded sand of such size
that all pass a no. eight sieve. Cement, aggregate and water for mortar shall
conform to the applicable provisions of Subchapter 7.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-350) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-351 MANHOLE STUBS AND STOPPERS.
   (A)   Vitrified clay pipe stubs shall be furnished and installed in manholes
at the locations and in conformance with the detail drawings and as shown on
the plans. All stubs shall be plugged with stoppers or brick wall plugs as
shown on the plans for various sizes of pipe.
   (B)   Where new construction is started at the stub of an existing manhole,
the applicant shall brick the opening into the manhole before they remove the
plug or stopper from the stub. The bricked opening shall remain in place until
the applicant has tested and completed the work.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-351) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-352—8-4-356 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-4-357 WATERTIGHTNESS OF MANHOLES.
   It is the intent of this chapter that manholes and appurtenances be as
watertight and free from infiltration as possible. Where manholes are to be
given a protective lining or coating, they shall be free of any seeping or
surface moisture. The adequacy of manholes and appurtenances as to
watertightness shall be determined by the Department, and shall be tested by
filling with water when ordered by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-357) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-358 MANHOLE FRAME AND COVER.
   The elevations at which manhole frames and covers are to be set shall
conform to the requirements set forth on the plans and detail drawings, but in
all cases shall be established by the engineer in the field. Where the frame
and cover are in existing pavement or in the traveled way of the existing road
shoulder, they are to be placed flush with the existing surface. Where the
structure is outside the limits of the traveled shoulder but not in the
roadside ditch, it should be placed one-tenth foot or more above the existing
ground surface. Where the manhole cover falls in the existing roadside ditch or
right-of-way, it is to be placed approximately one and one-half feet above the
existing ground surface or as directed by the Department. Manhole frames shall
be set at the required grade and shall be securely attached to the top precast
manhole shaft unit with a cement mortar bed and fillet as shown on the plans.
After the frames are securely set in the place provided in this section, covers
shall be installed and all necessary cleaning and scraping of foreign materials
from the frames and covers shall be accomplished to ensure a fine satisfactory
fit.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-358) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-359 DROP MANHOLES.
   (A)   Drop manholes shall be constructed at the location on the plans and in
conformance with the detail drawings.
   (B)   Materials and construction of drop manholes, including frames and
covers, shall conform in all respects to the applicable provisions of this
chapter for precast concrete manholes, with modifications for the addition of
drop inlets as set forth on the detail drawings.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-359) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-360 CONNECTIONS TO EXISTING MANHOLES.
   New connections to existing manholes wherein stubs have not been provided
shall be made by core drilling through the walls and manhole base as directed
by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-360) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-361—8-4-370 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 17. STEEL CASING PIPE ****
§ 8-4-371 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   Steel casing pipe shall be installed at the locations and to the lines and
grades indicated on the plans and as specified in this subchapter. All work
shall conform to the specifications and requirements of the California Division
of Highways, the County Road Department, the city and the railroad company
involved. It shall be the applicant’s responsibility to secure all necessary
permits for start and prosecution of casing pipe installation.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-371) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-372 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The equipment, materials and methods used for the construction of the
complete installation of the casing pipe and the sewer pipe within the casing
shall be determined by the applicant to the extent that the final and completed
installation receives the approval of the Department and is consistent with the
intent of this chapter.
   (B)   The applicant may present an alternate detailed proposal in lieu of
the methods and materials specified in this subchapter to jack or bore casing
pipe under the locations as shown on the plans. Such proposal shall be subject
to the sole approval of the Department, and shall be presented 14 calendar days
in advance of the work to allow adequate time for checking, and must be in
accordance with all the conditions set forth in the necessary permits.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-372) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-373 JACKING AND BORING.
   (A)   Steel casing pipe, of the minimum size and thickness specified in this
subchapter, shall be installed in place by jacking or boring methods without
the use of water or air at the locations shown on the plans, and to grades
required to install the sewer carrying pipe. The applicant’s attention is
called to the fact that extreme care will be required in placing the casing
pipe so as to permit the construction of the sewer pipe to the lines and grades
shown on the plans. The sewer mains are gravity flow, designed at grades which
will permit variance from the lines and grades as shown. It shall be the
applicant’s responsibility to choose a size of casing at or above the minimum
specified, in order that the jacking may be done with a sufficient degree of
accuracy to permit installation of the sewer carrying pipe to the grades shown
on the plans.
   (B)   (1)   In general, excavated material shall be removed from the casing
as jacking progresses, and no accumulation of excavated material within the
casing will be permitted. Should appreciable loss of ground occur, the voids
shall be back-packed promptly to the extent practicable with soil cement.
      (2)   Upon completion of the jacking operation and before the carrier
pipe is installed, all voids around the casing shall be filled by grouting
through holes drilled through the casing. The grout shall be a lean mixture of
sand and cement placed at low pressures.
      (3)   After the carrier pipe has been installed, the annular space
between the carrier pipe and the casing pipe shall be backfilled with lean
grout under pressure. Sand will not be permitted for such backfilling. Lean
grout shall be one part of portland cement to not more than four parts of sand
by volume. Grout at each end of the casing pipe shall be finished neat and
flush with the pipe end.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-373) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-374 CARRIER PIPE WITHIN CASING PIPE.
   (A)   Vitrified clay sewer pipe conforming to the specifications of
Subchapter 6 shall be installed within the casing pipe to the lines and grades
shown on the plans.
   (B)   Mechanical compression joints shall be used on all vitrified clay
sewer carrier pipe installed within casing pipe. The carrier pipe shall be
supported on wood or metal skids prior to backfilling in such a manner as to
relieve the pipe bells from all load and bearing.
   (C)   Prior to backfilling as specified in this subchapter, the sewer
carrier pipe shall pass a successful test for leakage as provided in Subchapter
21.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-374) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-375—8-4-384 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 18. CONCRETE ENCASEMENT ****
§ 8-4-385 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   Encasement concrete shall be either reinforced or non-reinforced, unformed
or rough formed, and of the class as designated on the plans. Concrete used for
encasing, cradling, bedding or cover for pipe or other objects shall be as
shown on the plans and detail drawings or as directed by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-385) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-386—8-4-395 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 19. REMOVAL AND RESURFACING OF STREET PAVEMENT AND SURFACES
****
§ 8-4-396 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Street pavement and surfaces shall be removed and replaced in all
areas of construction excavation in conformance with details shown on the plans
and as specified in this subchapter. Resurfacing of existing pavement and
surfaces damaged or removed in connection with the construction of sanitary
sewer improvements, including all appurtenances, shall conform to the
provisions of permits issued by the California Division of Highways, the County
Road Department or the city, for the work within the rights-of-way of the
respective agency. In the absence of specific designation upon the plans, the
trench or excavation shall be resurfaced with the class of surfacing conforming
most nearly to the surface of the street, and in accordance with the
requirements and to the full satisfaction of the agency issuing the permit.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant shall take precautions to prevent damage to all
pavement and other surfaces outside the limits of necessary excavation, whether
in city, county or state rights-of-way, district rights-of-way or private
property.
      (2)   All damaged pavement and surfaces within city, county or state
rights-of-way shall be replaced in accordance with the conditions of the
permits issued for the construction within the respective rights-of-way.
      (3)   The applicant shall bear all expense in acquiring and resulting
from compliance with any and all conditions of the permits issued by the city,
the County Road Department or the California Division of Highways.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-396) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-397—8-4-406 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 20. INSTALLATION UNDER RAILROAD CROSSINGS ****
§ 8-4-407 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The applicant shall perform the work for the installation of sewer
lines under railroad tracks and across railroad rights-of-way in accordance
with the directions and under the supervision of the railroad company on whose
property the work is done.
   (B)   It shall be the applicant’s responsibility to secure all necessary
permits for start and prosecution of construction work on railroad property
from the railroad company involved.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-407) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-4-408—8-4-417 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 21. TESTING FOR LEAKAGE AND INFILTRATION ****
§ 8-4-418 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter that the completed sewer pipes of all
types, along with manholes and other appurtenances, shall be watertight.
   (B)   Each section of sewer between two successive manholes shall be tested
for leakage or, at the option of the Department, for infiltration. In general,
the leakage test shall be made on all sections of sewer except those where, in
the opinion of the Department, excessive groundwater is encountered. Where
excessive groundwater is encountered, the infiltration test shall be made.
   (C)   Even though a section may have previously passed the leakage or
infiltration test, each section of sewer shall be tested subsequent to the last
backfill compacting operation in connection therewith wherein, in the opinion
of the Department, heavy compaction equipment or any of the operations of the
applicant or others may have damaged or affected the structural integrity or
water-tightness of the pipe, structures and appurtenances. The applicant shall
furnish all materials required for the tests. Tests shall be made in the
presence of the inspector.
   (D)   (1)   If the leakage or infiltration rate as shown by the tests
specified in this subchapter is greater than the amount specified, the pipe
joints shall be repaired, or, if necessary, the pipe shall be removed and
relaid by the applicant.
      (2)   The sewer will not be considered acceptable until the leakage and
infiltration rate, as determined by test, is less than the maximum allowable.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-418) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-419 LEAKAGE TEST.
   (A)   Unless excessive groundwater is encountered, each section of sanitary
sewer between two successive structures shall be tested by closing the lower
end of the sewer to be tested and the inlet sewer of the upper structure with
plugs or stoppers, and filling the pipe and structure with water to a point
four feet above the invert of the open sewer in the upper structure, or to a
height of ten feet above the invert of the sewer in the lower structure,
whichever gives the least hydrostatic pressure on the lower structure.
   (B)   (1)   The total leakage shall be the decrease in volume of water in
the upper structure.
      (2)   The leakage shall not exceed two-tenths gallon per minute per inch
of nominal diameter of pipe per 1,000 feet of sewer pipe being tested.
      (3)   The length of house connections shall not be used in computing the
length of sewer main being tested.
      (4)   Where the head in the upstream manhole exceeds the four-foot depth
indicated in division (A) above, the allowable leakage may be increased at the
rate of 10% per two feet of additional depth, with a 30% maximum increase.
   (C)   (1)   Where laterals are included in the line being tested, special
consideration should be given to permit adequate release of the trapped air in
such laterals.
      (2)   If the leakage, as shown by the test, is greater than allowed, the
pipe shall be overhauled and, if necessary, replaced and relaid until the
joints and pipe hold satisfactorily under this test.
      (3)   All tests must be completed before the street or trench is
resurfaced, unless otherwise directed by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-419) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-420 INFILTRATION TEST.
   (A)   If, in the construction of a section of the sewer between structures,
excessive groundwater is encountered, the test for leakage described in § 8-4-
419 shall not be used, but, instead, the end of the sewer at the upper
structure shall be closed sufficiently to prevent the entrance of water, and
pumping of groundwater shall be discontinued for at least three days, after
which the section shall be tested for infiltration.
   (B)   The infiltration shall not exceed two-tenths gallon per minute, per
inch of diameter, per 1,000 feet of main line sewer being tested, and does not
include the length of house laterals entering that section.
   (C)   Where any infiltration in excess of this amount is discovered before
completion and acceptance of the sewer, the sewer shall be immediately
uncovered and the amount of infiltration reduced to a quantity within the
specified amount of infiltration before the sewer is accepted.
   (D)   Should, however, the infiltration be less than the specified amount,
the applicant shall stop any individual leaks that may be observed when ordered
to do so by the Department.
   (E)   All tests must be completed before the street or trench is resurfaced,
unless otherwise directed by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-420) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-421 MANHOLE TEST.
   (A)   (1)   Watertightness of manholes may be tested in connection with
hydrostatic tests of sanitary sewers or at the time the manhole is completed
and backfilled.
      (2)   Any evidence of leakage as a result of testing shall be repaired to
the satisfaction of the Department.
   (B)   (1)   The manhole shall be filled with water to an elevation one foot
below the start of the cone section, with a minimum depth of four feet and a
maximum depth of 20 feet.
      (2)   Where the manholes are tested with the sewer line, no additional
leakage will be allowed above that for the main line sewer.
   (C)   Where a separate manhole leakage test is performed or requested by the
Department, the applicant shall plug all inlets and outlets with approved
stoppers or plugs and fill the manhole to the limits indicated in division (B)
above.
   (D)   (1)   The water shall stand in the manhole for a minimum of one hour
to allow the manhole material to reach maximum absorption.
      (2)   After the one-hour period has elapsed, the applicant shall refill
the manhole to the original depth, and the drop in water surface shall be
recorded after a period of from 15 minutes to one hour has elapsed.
      (3)   The time of the test shall be determined by the inspector and shall
be varied by the inspector to fill the various field conditions.
   (E)   (1)   The maximum allowable drop in the water surface shall be one-
half inch for each 15-minute period of testing.
      (2)   Even though the leakage is less than the specified amount, the
applicant shall stop any leaks that may be observed to the satisfaction of the
inspector.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-421) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-422 TEST FOR DAMAGED OR DEFECTIVE PIPE IN PLACE.
   (A)   After the pipe has been installed and hydrostatically tested and the
compacted backfill placed, but before manholes are raised to grade and
resurfacing is completed, the pipe shall be balled from manhole to manhole with
a sewer scrubbing ball of a type and size to be approved by the Department. In
addition to and after balling the pipe, all straight sewers and inlet/outlet
ends of curvilinear sewers shall be mirrored by the inspector with the
assistance of the applicant’s forces.
   (B)   All balling and mirroring shall be done in the presence of the
inspector and shall constitute tests for alignment, grade, danger or defective
pipe in place or any other type of faulty installation. Should balling and
mirroring indicate any faulty installation of the pipe, repairs or replacements
shall be made by the applicant as directed by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-422) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-4-423 FINAL INSPECTION.
   (A)   After paving has been completed and all manholes raised to grade, a
final visual inspection will be made.
   (B)   The applicant shall furnish the necessary labor to assist the
Department in making the final inspection.
   (C)   Additional balling may be required if the lines are dirty, even though
lines were previously balled.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-423) (Ord. 90-11, § 10, passed 3-6-1990)
**** SUBCHAPTER 22. DETAIL DRAWINGS ****
§ 8-4-424 DETAIL DRAWINGS.
   (A)   Detail drawing one.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4628.jpg]
 
   (B)   Detail drawing two.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4630.jpg]
 
   (C)   Detail drawing three.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4632.jpg]
 
   (D)   Detail drawing four.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4634.jpg]
 
   (E)   Detail drawing five.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4636.jpg]
 
   (F)   Detail drawing six.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4638.jpg]
 
   (G)   Detail drawing seven.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4640.jpg]
 
   (H)   Detail drawing eight.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4642.jpg]
 
   (I)   Detail drawing nine.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4644.jpg]
 
   (J)   Detail drawing ten.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4646.jpg]
 
   (K)   Detail drawing 11.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4648.jpg]
 
   (L)   Detail drawing 12.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4650.jpg]
 
   (M)   Detail drawing 13.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4652.jpg]
 
   (N)   Detail drawing 14.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4654.jpg]
 
   (O)   Detail drawing 15.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4656.jpg]
 
   (P)   Detail drawing 16.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4658.jpg]
 
   (Q)   Detail drawing 17.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4660.jpg]
 
***** CHAPTER 5: MECHANICAL AND SOLAR ENERGY APPLIANCES *****
Section
Subchapter 1. California Mechanical Code
8-5-1   Adoption of the California Mechanical Code
8-5-2—8-5-9   Reserved
Subchapter 2. 2009 Edition of the Uniform Solar Energy Code
8-5-10   Adoption of the Uniform Solar Energy Code
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE ****
§ 8-5-1 ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE.
   As adopted in § 8-1-12, the 2025 Edition of the California Mechanical Code,
based on the 2024 Uniform Mechanical Code as published by the IAMPO, shall be
the mechanical code of the city, regulating and controlling the design,
construction, installation, quality of materials, location, operation and
maintenance of heating, ventilating, cooling, refrigeration systems,
incinerators and other miscellaneous heat producing appliances.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 9, passed 12-2-2025)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2025-237, § 9, adopted 12-2-2025, repealed the former Subchapter 1, §
8-5-1, and enacted a new Subchapter 1 as set out herein. The former Subchapter
1 pertained to the 2021 Edition of the California Mechanical Code and derived
from Ord. 2022-219, § 9, passed 11-15-2022.
§§ 8-5-2—8-5-9 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. 2009 EDITION OF THE UNIFORM SOLAR ENERGY CODE ****
§ 8-5-10 ADOPTION OF THE UNIFORM SOLAR ENERGY CODE.
   The current Uniform Solar Code, as published by the IAMPO, shall be the
Solar Code of the city, regulating and controlling the design, construction,
installation, quality of materials, location, operation and maintenance of
solar systems. The Uniform Solar Code is on file for public examination in the
office of the Building Official. One copy of the code is now filed in the
office of the City Clerk. This code is hereby adopted and incorporated as
though set forth in full in this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-10) (Ord. 2013-174, § 9, passed 12-3-2013)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2013-174, § 9, adopted 12-3-2013, repealed the former Subchapter 2, §
8-5-10, and enacted a new Subchapter 2 as set out herein. The former Subchapter
2 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. 2010-159, § 9,
adopted 11-16-2010.
***** CHAPTER 6: CALIFORNIA EXISTING BUILDINGS CODES *****
[Reserved]
***** CHAPTER 7: CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE CODE *****
Section
8-7-1   Adoption of the California Administrative Code
§ 8-7-1 ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE CODE.
   The 2025 Edition of the California Administrative Code, as published by the
International Code Council, shall be the administrative code of the city. The
California Administrative Code is on file for public examination in the office
of the Building Official. One copy of the code is now filed in the office of
the City Clerk. This code is hereby adopted and incorporated as through set
forth in full in this section.
(Ord. 2025-237, § 10, passed 12-2-2025)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2025-237, § 10, adopted 12-2-2025, repealed the former Division 7, § 8-
7-1, and enacted a new Division 7 as set out herein. The former Division 7
pertained to the 2022 Edition of the California Administrative Code and derived
from Ord. 2022-219, § 10, passed 11-15-2022.
***** CHAPTER 8: OIL DRILLING AND PRODUCTION *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Oil Code
8-8-1   Short title
8-8-2   Purpose and applicability of subchapter
8-8-3   Definitions
8-8-4   Definitions (A)
8-8-5   Definitions (B)
8-8-6   Definitions (C)
8-8-7   Definitions (D)
8-8-8   Reserved
8-8-9   Reserved
8-8-10   Definitions (G)
8-8-11—8-8-14   Reserved
8-8-15   Definitions (L)
8-8-16   Definitions (M)
8-8-17   Definitions (N)
8-8-18   Definitions (O)
8-8-19   Definitions (P)
8-8-20   Reserved
8-8-21   Definitions (R)
8-8-22   Definitions (S)
8-8-23   Definitions (T)
8-8-24   Reserved
8-8-25   Reserved
8-8-26   Definitions (W)
8-8-27—8-8-29   Reserved
8-8-30   Permit required; exceptions
8-8-31   Issuance of permit
8-8-32   Bond
8-8-33   Fees; expiration of permit
8-8-34   Drilling and operation of wells
8-8-35—8-8-39   Reserved
8-8-40   Abandonment of facilities
8-8-41   Called inspections
8-8-42   Information to be provided to Director
8-8-43   Storage facilities
8-8-44   High pressure pipe systems
8-8-45—8-8-49   Reserved
8-8-50   Fire prevention
8-8-51   Enforcement of subchapter
8-8-52   Appeals
8-8-53   Penalty for violation of subchapter
Cross-reference:
Business regulations, see Title 5
Deposit of oil or petroleum products on street, see §
7-1-57
Fire protection and explosives, see §
11-3-1
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. OIL CODE ****
§ 8-8-1 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “oil code”. The word
CODE, as used in this subchapter, unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise, shall mean the oil code.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-2 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter to regulate the exploration and
drilling for and the production of petroleum so that this activity may be
conducted in harmony with other uses of land within the city, thus protecting
the people of the city in the enjoyment and use of their property and providing
for their comfort, health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   It is further the intent of the City Council that petroleum operations
shall be permitted in all districts within the city subject to the application
of this subchapter, the requirements of which have been carefully designed for
the fulfillment of the intent expressed in division (A) above.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to landfill gas
recovery operations.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-2) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-3 DEFINITIONS.
   The words, terms and phrases defined in §§
8-8-4 through
8-8-26, when used in this subchapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in §§
8-8-4 through
8-8-26, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-3) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 8-8-4 DEFINITIONS (A).
   ABANDONMENT. The restoration of the drill site as required by this
subchapter.
   ANSI. The American National Standards Institute.
   API. The American Petroleum Institute.
   APPROVED. Approved by the director. The term APPROVED TYPE or APPROVED
DESIGN means and includes improvements, equipment or facilities of a type or
design approved by the Director.
   ASME. The American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-4) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-5 DEFINITIONS (B).
   BLOWOUT. The uncontrolled discharge of gas, liquids or solids, or a mixture
thereof, from a well into the atmosphere.
   BLOWOUT PREVENTER. A mechanical, hydraulic or pneumatic or other device, or
a combination of such devices, secured to the top of a well casing, including
valves, fittings and control mechanisms connected therewith, designed and
capable of preventing a blowout.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-5) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-6 DEFINITIONS (C).
   CELLAR. An excavation around or above the top joint of the casing in a well.
   COMPLETION OF DRILLING. A well is completed, for the purpose of this
subchapter, 30 days after the drilling crew has been released, unless drilling
or remedial operations are resumed before the end of the 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-6) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-7 DEFINITIONS (D).
   DERRICK. Any framework, tower or mast, together with all parts of an
appurtenance to such structure, including any foundations, pumphouse and pipe
racks, and each and every part thereof, which is or are required or used or
useful for the drilling for and the production of oil, gas or other
hydrocarbons from the earth, except tanks used for storage purposes.
   DESERTION. The cessation of operations at a drill site without compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter relating to suspended operations or
abandonment.
   DILIGENCE. The drilling derrick is in its operating position over the well,
properly anchored and supported, and that an operating crew is on duty at the
drill site at all reasonable times.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Community Development and their assistants and
deputies, and inspectors and officers of the Community Development Department.
   DIVISION OF OIL AND GAS. The Division of Oil and Gas of the California
Department of Natural Resources, or any other state agency that may in the
future be charged with its responsibilities.
   DRILL SITE. The premises used during the drilling and subsequent life of a
well which are necessary for the safe operation thereof.
   DRILLING. Digging a hole in earth formation with a power-driven drill bit
for the purpose of exploring for or developing of oil or gas. DRILLING includes
those operations that are concerned with the completion of a well. DRILLING
does not include a shot hole.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-7) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-8 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-8-9 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-8-10 DEFINITIONS (G).
   GAS. The gaseous components or vapors occurring in or derived from petroleum
or natural gas.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-10) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-8-11—8-8-14 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-8-15 DEFINITIONS (L).
   LESSEE. The possessor having the right to exploit the premises for minerals.
   LESSOR. The mineral right owner.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-15) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-16 DEFINITIONS (M).
   MAINTENANCE. The repair and replacement of parts of a structure where the
repair or replacement does not alter or lessen the strength or stability of the
structure.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-16) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-17 DEFINITIONS (N).
   NATURAL GASOLINE PLANT or ABSORPTION PLANT. A plant for the processing of
natural gas from the production wells and processing it into its various
components.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-17) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-18 DEFINITIONS (O).
   OIL. Includes petroleum, and the term PETROLEUM includes oil.
   OPERATOR. The person, whether proprietor, lessee or independent contractor,
actually in charge and in control of the drilling, maintenance, operation or
pumping of a well or lease.
   OUTER BOUNDARY LINE. Where several contiguous parcels of land in one or
different ownerships are operated as a single oil or gas lease or operating
unit, the term OUTER BOUNDARY LINE means the exterior limits of the land
included in the lease or unit. In determining the contiguity of any such
parcels of land, no street, road or alley lying within the lease or unit shall
be deemed to interrupt such contiguity.
   OWNER. A person who owns a legal or equitable title in and to the surfaces
of the drill site.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-18) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-19 DEFINITIONS (P).
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, corporation or joint venture, or
any other group or combination acting as a unit.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-19) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-20 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-8-21 DEFINITIONS (R).
   REDRILLING. The deepening of an existing oil well or otherwise drilling
beyond the extremities of the existing well casing. The provisions of this
subchapter relating to drilling shall be equally applicable to REDRILLING.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-21) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-22 DEFINITIONS (S).
   SEISMIC PETROLEUM PROSPECTING. Prospecting for oil by means of drilling
holes into the ground, placing an explosive charge therein and detonating such
charge; thereby exciting an energy or sound wave through the earth, the results
of which are recorded and read by seismograph equipment placed at various
locations on the surface of the earth. SEISMIC PETROLEUM PROSPECTING is
prohibited in the following areas:
      (1)   The area within one-quarter mile of the boundary of O’Neill Park
and Irvine Park;
      (2)   The area within one mile landward of the line of Upper Newport Bay
as established and adjudicated by Orange County v. Irvine Company, Orange
County Superior Court Case No. 20436, dated May 6, 1926; and
      (3)   The area within one mile landward of the coastline measured from
mean lower low-water datum as established by the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey
from the easterly jetty of the harbor entrance at Newport Beach to the San
Diego County line.
   SHOT HOLE. The hole drilled in seismic petroleum prospecting.
   SOURCE OF IGNITION. Any flame, arc, spark or heated object or surface
capable of igniting flammable liquids, gases or vapors.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, including a tank, edifice or
building of any kind.
   SUSPENDED OPERATIONS. The approved temporary suspension of drilling or
redrilling operations pending a resumption of operations or abandonment.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-22) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-23 DEFINITIONS (T).
   TANK. A container, covered or uncovered, used in conjunction with the
drilling or production of an oil well, for holding or storing liquids at or
near atmospheric pressure.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-23) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-24 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-8-25 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-8-26 DEFINITIONS (W).
   WELL or OIL WELL. A well or hole drilled into the earth for the purpose of
exploring for or extracting from the earth oil, gas or other hydrocarbon
substances, or a well or hole in the earth by means of and through which oil,
gas and other hydrocarbon substances are extracted, produced or capable of
being produced from the earth, or a well or hole for the purpose of secondary
recovery or disposal thereof. WELL does not include a shot hole.
   WELL SERVICING. Remedial or maintenance work performed within any existing
well which does not involve drilling or redrilling.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-26) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-8-27—8-8-29 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-8-30 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   A permit from the Director shall be obtained:
      (1)   For drilling or redrilling operations in connection with the
exploration for or the production of petroleum, or for the purpose of secondary
recovery; and
      (2)   To erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
convert or demolish any structure.
   (B)   No permit shall be required for well servicing or maintenance or for
any structure for which a building permit is not required.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-30) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-31 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   The applicant for a permit under this subchapter shall file an
application in writing for a permit on a form furnished for that purpose by the
Community Development Department.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   A complete legal description of the property;
         (b)   A fully informative plot plan showing the location of the well,
the location of which has been staked on the ground and appurtenant structures
and their relation to any existing hospital, sanitarium, church, rest home,
airport, school and dwelling within the radius required by this subchapter;
         (c)   Plans and engineering specifications of structures, drilling
derricks, drilling masts, tanks and high-pressure systems regulated by this
subchapter. The applicant need not file plans and engineering specifications of
standard derricks, masts and tanks when such plans and specifications are
already on file in the office of the Director;
         (d)   A corporate surety bond in conformity with the provisions of §
8-8-32;
         (e)   A verified statement signed by the applicant certifying that
they are duly authorized by the operator to make and file the application and
that they have read the application and the application is true and correct;
         (f)   An acknowledged statement in writing subscribed by the owner of
the surface rights of the drill site and by the owner of any private land over
which access is had to the drill site granting to the city the right to enter
upon the drill site and such private land for the purpose of inspection and
restoring the premises if the applicant should fail to do so;
         (g)   A statement as to the means by which liquid spills will be
removed from diked areas or catchment basins; and
         (h)   Such other pertinent information as may be required by the
Director.
   (B)   A drilling permit may be amended insofar as it relates to the drill
site area and a drill site may be modified as to size and shape by filing with
the Director a modified plot plan, if the modified drill site conforms to the
applicable provisions of this subchapter and of §
9-1-117, but not otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-31) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-32 BOND.
   (A)   Existing wells. A bond in the form required by this section shall be
filed for each existing well within 30 days following the effective date of
this subchapter.
   (B)   New wells. A bond in the form required by this section shall accompany
every application for the drilling or redrilling of any oil well for which a
bond is not on file.
   (C)   Bond forms. Bonds shall be on a form approved by the City Attorney and
shall be filed with the Community Development Department as follows:
      (1)   Single bonds. Corporate surety bonds in the sum in the amount
established by resolution of the City Council. The bond shall be executed by
the operator as principal and by the authorized surety company as surety and
conditioned that the principal named in the bond shall faithfully comply with
all the provisions of this subchapter in drilling or redrilling and maintaining
all production facilities as required by this subchapter until properly
abandoned in conformity with the provisions of this subchapter. The bond shall
secure the city against all costs, charges and expenses incurred by it by
reason of the failure of the principal to fully comply with the provisions of
this subchapter. The bond shall include the correct name or number of the well
and such other information as may be necessary to readily identify the oil
well; and
      (2)   Blanket bonds. Any operator may, in lieu of filing a single bond
for each well as required by divisions (A) and (B) above, file a bond in the
amount established by resolution of the City Council to cover all of their
operations conducted within the city. A rider to the bond shall be filed with
the Director showing the correct name or number of the well and such other
information as may be necessary to readily identify the oil well for each well
covered by the bond.
   (D)   Default in performance of conditions.
      (1)   Whenever the Director finds that a default has occurred in the
performance of any requirement or condition of this subchapter, written notice
thereof shall be given to the principal and to the surety on the bond.
      (2)   Such notice shall specify the work to be done, the estimated cost
thereof and the period of time deemed by the Director to be reasonably
necessary for the completion of such work.
      (3)   After receipt of such notice, the surety shall, within the time
therein specified, either cause or require work to be performed, or failing
therein shall pay over to the Director the estimated cost of doing the work as
set forth in the notice, plus an additional sum equal to 25% of the estimated
cost. Upon receipt of such monies, the Director shall proceed by such mode as
they deem convenient to cause the required work to be performed and completed,
but no liability shall be incurred therein other than for the expenditure of
the sum in hand. If the well has not been properly abandoned under the
regulations of the Division of Oil and Gas, such additional monies may be
demanded from the surety as necessary to restore the drill site in conformity
with the regulations of this subchapter.
   (E)   Exoneration. Any bond issued in compliance with this subchapter shall
be terminated and canceled and the surety be relieved of all obligations
thereunder when the well has been properly abandoned in conformity with all
regulations of the Division of Oil and Gas and notice to that effect has been
received by the Community Development Department.
   (F)   Substitution. A substitute bond may be filed in lieu of any bond on
file under this section, and the Director shall accept and file the bond if it
is qualified and in proper form and substance. The bond for which it is
substituted shall be exonerated, but only if the Director finds that all of the
conditions of the bond have been satisfied and that no default exists as to the
performance upon which the bond is conditioned.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-32) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-33 FEES; EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Drilling or redrilling permit fee.
      (1)   A fee for each drilling permit or redrilling permit shall be paid
to the Director as established by resolution of the City Council.
      (2)   Where drilling, redrilling, construction or other work for which a
permit is required by this subchapter is started or proceeded with prior to
obtaining the permit, the fees specified in this division (A)(2) shall be
doubled, but the payment of such double fee shall not relieve any person or
employee from fully complying with the requirements of this subchapter or the
execution of the work, or from any other penalties prescribed in this
subchapter.
   (B)   Plan-checking fee. A plan-checking fee shall not be charged for the
derrick or its appurtenances. A plan-checking fee shall be charged for all
permanent buildings, production tanks, washing tanks, skim ponds and such other
structures not directly connected with the derrick itself. A plan-checking fee
shall be charged for oil well cellars designed to accommodate more than one oil
well. The plan-checking fee shall be established by resolution of the City
Council.
   (C)   Annual inspection fee. The Director shall inspect annually, and at
such other times as they deem necessary, each producing oil well and suspended
oil well regulated by this subchapter for the purpose of ascertaining whether
the well is being operated or maintained in conformity with the minimum
standards of this subchapter. To meet the expense of such inspection, the
operator shall pay to the Community Development Department an annual inspection
fee as established by resolution of the City Council. The year for which each
fee is applicable runs from July 1 to June 30. The fees shall be based upon the
total number of wells existing on July 1, whether producing or not. The fees
shall be due prior to July 1 of the year to which they pertain. No additional
fee shall be charged for additional inspections which may be required during
the year. The Director shall keep a permanent, accurate account of all annual
inspection fees collected and received under this subchapter, the name of the
operator for whose account the fees were paid and the date and amount thereof,
together with the well name and designation and the general location of the
well. A report of the Director’s annual inspection findings shall be furnished
the operator.
   (D)   Building permit fee. A building permit fee, as established by
resolution of the City Council, shall be charged for the erection or
construction or relocation of any permanent building, tank or other structures
included in this section, and such fee shall be based on the total valuation of
the structure when completed.
   (E)   Expiration of permit. No permit issued under this subchapter shall be
valid unless utilization of the privileges granted thereby be commenced within
180 days from and after the date of issuance of the permit and diligently and
progressively prosecuted thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-33) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-34 DRILLING AND OPERATION OF WELLS.
   (A)   Location of wells.
      (1)   (a)   No oil well shall be drilled within the following distances
measured from the centerline of any local street or any highway shown on the
master plan of arterial highways, as amended:
            1.   Major highways, 210 feet;
            2.   Primary highways, 200 feet;
            3.   Secondary highways, 190 feet; and
            4.   Local streets, 180 feet, except that, in the case of a local
street the right-of-way of which is more than 60 feet in width, the distance
shall be 150 feet, plus one-half of the existing right-of-way which is more
than 60 feet in width. The Director may determine that, because of the degree
of slope or other feature of the topography, a lesser distance than one-half of
the right-of-way in addition to the 150 feet is reasonable to ensure the safety
of the traveling public in conformity with the purpose and intent of this
division (A)(1)(a), in which case the distance thus set by the Director shall
prevail.
         (b)   No oil well shall be drilled within 150 feet of the nearest rail
of a railway which carries passengers for hire.
      (2)   No oil well shall be drilled within 150 feet of any building used
for human occupancy, nor shall any such buildings be erected within 150 feet of
any oil well not abandoned, except buildings incidental to the operation of the
well. No oil well shall be drilled within 150 feet from the outer boundary
line.
      (3)   No oil well shall be drilled within 300 feet of any building used
as a place of public assemblage, institution or school, nor shall any such
building be erected within 300 feet of any oil well not abandoned.
      (4)   The Director may suspend any provision of division (A) above, in
whole or in part, or impose less restrictive requirements, if such provisions
or requirements are rendered unnecessary or unreasonable by then-existing
special features, such as topography; the nature of the use and occupancy of
and the proximity to buildings on adjoining property; the height, character and
structure of such buildings; and the type and character of oil field
development, and may impose additional safety requirements rendered necessary
because of such special features.
   (B)   Surfacing of private roads and drill sites.
      (1)   Prior to commencement of any drilling operations, all private roads
used for access to the drill site and the drill itself shall be surfaced by
clean crushed rock or gravel or decomposed granite or oiled and maintained to
prevent dust and mud.
      (2)   In particular cases these requirements governing surfacing of
private roads and drill sites may be altered at the discretion of the Director
after consideration of all of the circumstances, including, but not limited to,
distances from public streets and highways, distances from adjoining and nearby
property owners whose surface rights are not leased by the operator and the
purposes for which the property of such owners are or may be used,
topographical features, nature of the soil and exposure to wind.
   (C)   Derricks. All derricks and masts hereafter erected for drilling or
redrilling shall be at least equivalent to the current American Petroleum
Institute standards.
   (D)   Signs.
      (1)   A sign having a surface area of not less than two square feet and
no more than six square feet bearing the current name and number of the well
and the name and insignia of the operator shall be displayed at all times from
the commencement of drilling operations until the well is abandoned.
      (2)   If there are more than two producing wells on one leasehold, it
shall be sufficient if the entrances to the leasehold are posted with a sign
not less than 18 inches by 24 inches in size bearing the name of the operator
together with the name or designation of the lease, together with an openly
visible sign on each producing well designating the particular number thereof.
   (E)   Blowout prevention generally. Protection shall be provided to prevent
the blowout of an oil well during drilling and redrilling operations and shall
conform to the requirements of the California Administrative Code, Title 8,
Division 1, Chapter 4, Subchapter 14, Petroleum Safety Orders, Drilling and
Production, Article 55, Blow-Out Prevention, §§ 6691, 6691.1 and 6691.2.
   (F)   Blowout prevention for wells other than drilling wells.
      (1)   Protection shall be provided to prevent the blowout of an oil well,
conforming to the requirements of the California Administrative Code, Title 8,
Division 1, Chapter 4, Subchapter 14, Petroleum Safety Orders, Drilling and
Production, Article 55, Blow-Out Prevention, § 6692, in the following cases:
         (a)   During perforating, shooting or cutting off of string of casing;
and
         (b)   During well servicing operations on a well that is known to have
sufficient gas pressure to cause the well to flow, or where the gas pressure is
unknown.
      (2)   The operator shall notify the Director, in writing, at least one
day before any of the operations described in this division (F)(2) are
commenced. If the day following the day on which notice is given falls on a
Saturday, Sunday or holiday, then such additional days’ notice must be given as
may be required so that there shall be one day, Saturday, Sunday and holidays
excepted, between the date notice be given and any of such operations
commenced.
   (G)   Waiver of blowout prevention requirements. The blowout preventive
requirements of divisions (E) and (F) above may be waived by the Director upon
such conditions and for such operations as they may determine, upon written
application by the operator and upon a showing by them of sufficient cause
therefor based upon information regarding depth of hole, probable gas pressures
to be encountered, the proposed drilling, completion or abandonment program or
whatever further information the Director may require.
   (H)   Drilling and production waste control.
      (1)   Rotary mud, drill cuttings, oil field waste, oil or liquid
hydrocarbons and all other oil field wastes derived or resulting from or
connected with the drilling of any well shall be discharged into a sump hole or
steel tank. Such drill cuttings, rotary mud and drilling waste materials shall
be removed from the drill site upon completion of drilling operations. Tanks
used as and for sump purposes shall be removed from the drill site and sump
holes shall be drained and backfilled within 30 days from and after completion
of drilling.
      (2)   All wastewater and all other waste materials resulting from
production operations shall be disposed of into an appropriate waste facility,
such as, but not limited to, an existing sump, a wastewater disposal system or
a sewer, subject to the approval of the agency governing the facility involved.
      (3)   Excepting temporary sumps for the disposal or storage of materials
used for or produced by drilling operations, no new sumps or ponds shall be
created without the written approval of the Director.
   (I)   Fencing.
      (1)   All sumps or sump holes and all oil well production equipment
having external moving parts hazardous to life or limb shall be attended 24
hours per day or be enclosed by a steel chainlink type fence not less than six
feet in height and, in addition, having not less than three strands of barbed
wire sloping outward at approximately a 45-degree angle and for 18 inches from
the top of the fence.
      (2)   There shall be no aperture below such fence greater than four
inches.
      (3)   Fence gates shall be placed at nonhazardous locations and shall be
locked at all times when unattended by a watchperson or serviceperson.
   (J)   Cellars. The following regulations shall apply to cellars.
      (1)   Every cellar shall be constructed in accordance with the adopted
2025 California Building Code and related codes, as amended and adopted by the
City Council.
      (2)   Such cellars shall be kept free from water, oil drilling fluids or
other substances which might constitute a hazard, except during drilling and
servicing operations.
      (3) The depth of such cellars shall be the vertical measurement between
the lowest point of the floor area in the bottom of such cellar and the lowest
point of the ground or any surface adjacent to the top of the cellar wall.
      (4)   All multi-well cellars exceeding three feet in depth and 25 feet in
length shall have two separate means of exit or entrance. If the cellar exceeds
50 feet in length, one of the means of entrance or exit shall be a stairway. If
the cellar exceeds 200 feet in length, a third means of entrance or exit shall
be provided.
      (5)   Multi-well cellars shall have a steel grate covering with no
unobstructed openings in excess of three inches. Materials, equipment or other
appurtenances shall not be stored or placed on the grating so as to interfere
with the escape of gases and vapors.
   (K)   Removal of equipment.
      (1)   All drilling equipment and the derrick shall be removed from the
premises within 60 days following the completion, abandonment or desertion of
any well.
      (2)   Once the well is a producing well, it shall be serviced with a
portable derrick when required. Drilling operations shall be diligently
prosecuted until the well is completed or abandoned.
   (L)   Soundproofing.
      (1)   Soundproofing shall comply with the following specifications when
required by the provisions of §
9-1-117.
      (2)   Soundproofing acoustical blankets for the drilling derrick and
accessory structures shall be fibrous glass insulation one and one-half inches
thick, 0.50 pounds per cubic foot density, 0.063 pounds per square foot weight
and 0.00010 to 0.00015 fiber diameter (inches), with a phenolic binder having a
temperature limit of 450°F sewed between layers of fire retardant vinyl
fiberglass cloth, 15 to 17 ounces per square yard, sewed with Dacron thread D-
92 with stitches not more than six to the inch.
      (3)   The lacing cord shall be flat vinyl-coated tape composed of fibrous
glass yarn, braided, heat set and bonded.
      (4)   The tape shall have a 90-pound tensile strength. Grommets shall be
number four brass. All doors and similar openings shall be kept closed during
drilling operations, except for ingress and egress.   (M)   Alternate materials
and methods of construction.
      (1)   The provisions of this subchapter are not intended to prevent the
use of any material or method of construction not specifically prescribed by
this subchapter; provided any such alternate has been approved.
      (2)   The Director may approve any such alternate provided they find that
the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of this
subchapter, and that the material or method offered is, for the purpose
intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this subchapter in
quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety.
      (3)   The Director shall require that sufficient evidence or proof be
submitted to substantiate any claims that may be made regarding its use.
Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the intent of this
subchapter or evidence that any material or any construction does not conform
to the requirements of this subchapter, or in order to substantiate claims for
alternate materials or methods of construction, the Director may require tests
as proof compliance to be made, at the expense of the owner or their agent, by
an approved agency.
      (4)   Test methods shall be as specified by this subchapter for the
material in question. If there are no appropriate test methods specified in
this subchapter, the Director shall determine the test procedure.      
(5)   Copies of the results of all such tests shall be retained for a period of
not less than two years after the acceptance of the materials or methods.
   (N)   Sanitary facilities. Sanitary facilities shall be provided at the
drill site during all drilling or redrilling operations and shall be in
accordance with the standards of the Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-34) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Applicable related codes, see §
8-1-12
§§ 8-8-35—8-8-39 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-8-40 ABANDONMENT OF FACILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Director to determine that the drill
site and all facilities pertinent thereto have been restored to their original
condition as nearly as practicable in conformity with the regulations of this
subchapter, including the following requirements.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the operator to comply with the
abandonment provisions of this subchapter, and they shall furnish to the
director the approval of the Division of Oil and Gas, California Department of
Natural Resources, confirming compliance with all abandonment proceedings under
state law, and a notice of intention to abandon under the provisions of this
section stating the date such work will be commenced. Abandonment may then be
commenced on or subsequent to the date so stated.
      (2)   Abandonment shall be approved by the Director after restoration of
the drill site and the subsurface thereof has been accomplished in conformity
with the following requirements:
         (a)   The derrick and all appurtenant equipment thereto shall be
removed from the drill site;
         (b)   All tanks, towers and other surface installations shall be
removed from the drill site;
         (c)   All concrete, pipe, wood and other foreign materials shall be
removed from the drill site to a depth of six feet below grade, unless part of
a multi-well cellar is then being used in connection with any other well for
which a permit has been issued;
         (d)   The oil well casing shall be cut off at a point six feet below
the drill site grade at the cellar, but in no case below sea level. Nothing
shall be placed in the hole above the point of cutoff until the cutoff has been
inspected by the Director and by them found to be in compliance with all
applicable provisions of law;
         (e)   The top 25 feet of the remaining casing shall be filled with a
cement plug to prevent gas fumes from escaping;
         (f)   A steel cap of not less than the same thickness as the well
casing shall be tack welded to the casing in a minimum of four places; and
         (g)   All holes and depressions shall be filled and packed with native
earth. All oil, waste oil, refuse or waste material shall be removed from the
drill site.
   (B)   Conversion to water well. A well may be converted to a domestic or
agricultural water well upon the approval of the Director after:
      (1)   A request in writing by the landowner has been made to the
Director;
      (2)   An original or certified copy of the approved conversion permit
from the Division of Oil and Gas has been furnished to the Director; and
      (3)   All the provisions relating to abandonment in division (A) above
have been complied with, except that those appurtenances necessary, in the
opinion of the Director, for the operation of a water well may be retained.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-40) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-41 CALLED INSPECTIONS.
   Except as provided in division (B) below, no drilling, redrilling, work or
construction shall be done beyond the point indicated in each successive
inspection without first obtaining the written approval of the Director.
   (A)   Site preparation.
      (1)   The well location shall be clearly marked by a stake or other
suitable means and identified as the well location.
      (2)   The drill site shall be prepared as required in this subchapter and
shall be of such size so as to provide for the safe erection of the mast or
derrick and all appurtenant structures thereto as indicated on the approved
plot plan.
      (3)   Any private road used for ingress and egress of equipment to the
drill site shall be prepared as required by this subchapter.
      (4)   The proposed well shall be located in conformity with this
subchapter as to the distances from streets, outer boundaries, public buildings
and dwellings.
   (B)   Commencement of drilling.
      (1)   The Director shall be called and notified when the drilling derrick
or mast has been erected in conformity with this subchapter and all necessary
equipment pertinent to the drilling operations thereof has been installed and
is on the site.
      (2)   Drilling may proceed prior to inspection of the derrick or mast;
provided that its design has been previously approved by the Director.
      (3)   It will be the obligation of the Director to inspect such
facilities as to their conformity with this subchapter as soon as reasonably
practicable.
   (C)   Release of drilling crew. The Director shall be notified immediately
in writing when the drilling crew is released, and it shall then be their duty
to inspect.
   (D)   Completion of drilling. Upon completion of drilling operations, an
inspection request shall be called for.
   (E)   Abandonment. An inspection shall be made subsequent to the approval of
the abandonment notice, and the Director shall certify that the well has been
abandoned in conformity with all applicable regulations to a depth of six feet
below grade.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-41) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-42 INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED TO DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Agent for service of notice.
      (1)   Every operator of any oil well shall designate an agent who is a
resident of the state, upon whom all orders and notices provided for in this
subchapter may be served in person, or by registered or certified mail.
      (2)   Every operator so designating such agent shall, within ten days,
notify the Director, in writing, of any change in such agent or such mailing
address, unless operations within the city are discontinued.
      (3)   Service by registered or certified mail, or in person, on the agent
so designated shall constitute service for all purposes of this subchapter.
   (B)   Transfer of ownership.
      (1)   (a)   The operator shall notify the Director, in writing, of the
sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or exchange by the operator of wells,
property and equipment, within ten days after such sale, assignment, transfer,
conveyance or exchange.
         (b)   The notice shall contain the following:
            1.   The name and address of the person to whom such well and
property was sold, assigned, transferred, conveyed or exchanged;
            2.   The name and location of the well;
            3.   The date of sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or
exchange;
            4.   The date when possession was relinquished by the former
operator; and
            5.   A description of the properties and equipment transferred.
      (2)   (a)   Every person who acquires any well, property or equipment,
whether by purchase, transfer, assignment, conveyance, exchange or otherwise,
shall, within ten days after acquiring such well, property or equipment, notify
the Director, in writing, of their ownership.
         (b)   The notice shall contain the following:
            1.   The name and address of the person from whom such well and
property was acquired;
            2.   The name and location of the well;
            3.   The date of acquisition;
            4.   A description of the properties and equipment transferred; and
            5.   The person designated for service of notice and their address.
   (C)   Suspension of drilling and redrilling operations.
      (1)   The operator of any well shall notify the Director, in writing, of
any temporary suspension of operations, pending a resumption of operations or
abandonment.
      (2)   The Director, for good cause, may approve temporary suspension of
operations. Such notice shall be filed with the Director within 30 days from
and after release of the drilling crew.
      (3)   Failure of the Director to act within ten days shall constitute
approval thereof.
      (4)   The operator shall notify the Director, in writing, upon resumption
of operations, giving the date thereof.
   (D)   Change in drilling contractor.
      (1)   The operator, before changing drilling or redrilling contractors,
shall file with the Director a written notice of the change, giving the name of
the original contractor and the name of the proposed contractor, and such
information as was originally required to meet the design and structural
requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   Such notice shall be attached to and become a part of the original
oil drilling or redrilling permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-42) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-43 STORAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Storage capacity. Maximum tank capacity for a producing oil well is as
follows: if oil or other liquid storage facilities are established incidental
to a producing well on a drill site, such storage facilities shall not exceed a
total of 2,000 barrels per well.
   (B)   Design and construction of tanks. All tanks shall be constructed in
detailed conformity with the current API standards applicable thereto.
   (C)   Foundations and supports.
      (1)   Tanks shall rest directly on the ground or on foundations, supports
or pilings of concrete, masonry, steel, crushed rock or wood.
      (2)   Exposed pilings or steel supports shall be protected by fire
resistive materials to provide a fire resistance rating of not less than two
hours.
      (3)   Stairs, platforms and walkways shall be of metal, concrete or wood.
   (D)   Spacing between tanks.
      (1)   No tank for the storage of any flammable liquid shall be located
closer than three feet to any other such tank.
      (2)   For tanks above 50,000 gallons’ individual capacity for the storage
of any flammable liquid, except crude petroleum, the distance between such
tanks shall not be less than one-half the diameter of the smaller tank.
      (3)   Tanks for the storage of crude petroleum having capacities not
exceeding 126,000 gallons (3,000 barrels) shall not be less than three feet
apart. Tanks having a capacity in excess of 126,000 gallons (3,000 barrels)
shall be not less than the diameter of the smaller tank apart.
      (4)   (a)   The minimum separation between a liquefied petroleum gas
container and any other tanks for the storage of any flammable liquids shall be
20 feet.
         (b)   Suitable means shall be taken to prevent the accumulation of
flammable liquids under adjacent liquefied petroleum gas containers, such as by
diking, diversion curbs or grading.
         (c)   When flammable liquid storage tanks are diked, the liquefied
petroleum gas containers shall be outside the diked area and at least ten feet
away from the centerline of the dikes; however, this provision shall not apply
when liquefied petroleum gas containers of 125 gallons or less in capacity are
installed adjacent to Class III flammable liquid storage tanks of 275 gallons
or less in capacity.
   (E)   Location of tanks. The minimum distance between any outside
aboveground tanks to the nearest building or line of adjoining property which
may be built upon is as follows:
      (1)   Flammable liquids other than those having boilover characteristics
similar to crude petroleum:
      (2)   Crude petroleum and other liquids having boilover characteristics
similar to crude petroleum and flammable liquid tanks with a capacity in excess
of 50,000 gallons; tanks with capacities in excess of 50,000 gallons; and all
tanks for the storage of crude petroleum shall be located in accordance with
the following provisions (applicable to gastight tanks, including conservation
type tanks, constructed in compliance with the standards of this subchapter or
equivalent standards):
 
                           Storage Facilities
                                                      Distance from Line of
Product Stored             Tank Protection            Adjoining Property Which
                                                      May Be Built Upon Shall
                                                      Not Be Less Than
                           Group A tanks equipped
                           with:                      Greatest dimension of
Refined petroleum products (1) An approved            diameter or height of
or other flammable liquids permanently attached       tanks, except that such
not subject to boilover    extinguishing system; or   distance need not exceed
                           (2) An approved floating   120 feet
                           roof
                                                      1 1/2 times the greatest
                           Group B tanks not equipped dimension of diameter or
                           with either of the above   height of tank, except
                                                      that such distance need
                                                      not exceed 175 feet
                           Group C tanks equipped     2 times the greatest
                           with:                      dimension of diameter or
                           (1) An approved            height of tank, except
Crude petroleum            permanently attached       that such distance shall
                           extinguishing system; or   not be less than 20 feet
                           (2) An approved floating   and need not exceed 175
                           roof                       feet
                           3 times the greatest
                           dimension of diameter or
Group D tanks not equipped height of tank, except
with either of the above   that such distance shall
                           not be less than 20 feet
                           and need not exceed 300
                           feet
 
         (a)   Group A tanks.
            1.   Any gastight tank constructed in compliance with the standards
of this subchapter or equivalent standards and equipped either with:
               a.   An approved permanently attached extinguishing system; or
               b.   An approved floating roof.
            2.   Which is to be used only for the storage of refined petroleum
products or other flammable liquids not subject to boilover shall be so located
that the distance from the line of adjoining property which may be built upon
shall be not less than the greatest dimension of diameter or height of the
tank, except that such distance need not exceed 120 feet.
         (b)   Group B tanks.
            1.   Any gastight tank constructed in compliance with the standards
of this subchapter or equivalent standards but not equipped either with:
               a.   An approved permanently attached extinguishing system; or
               b.   An approved floating roof.
            2.   Which is to be used only for the storage of refined petroleum
products or other flammable liquids not subject to boilover shall be so located
that the distance from the line of adjoining property which may be built upon
shall be not less than one and one-half times the greatest dimension of
diameter or height of the tank, except that such distance need not exceed 175
feet.
         (c)   Group C tanks.
            1.   Any gastight tank constructed in compliance with the standards
of this subchapter or equivalent standards and equipped either with:
               a.   An approved permanently attached extinguishing system; or
               b.   An approved floating roof.
            2.   Which is to be used for the storage of crude petroleum shall
be so located that the distance from the line of adjoining property which may
be built upon shall be not less than twice the greatest dimension of diameter
or height of the tank, except that such distance shall be not less than 20 feet
and need not exceed 175 feet.
         (d)   Group D tanks.
            1.   Any gastight tank constructed in compliance with the standards
of this subchapter or equivalent standards and not equipped either with:
               a.   An approved permanently attached extinguishing system; or
               b.   An approved floating roof.
            2.   Which is to be used for the storage of crude petroleum shall
be so located that the distance from the line of adjoining property which may
be built upon shall be not less than three times the greatest dimension of
diameter or height of the tank, except that such distance shall not be less
than 20 feet and need not exceed 350 feet.
         (e)   Definition of approved attached extinguishing system. The term
APPROVED ATTACHED EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM, as used in this division (E)(2), may be
interpreted to apply to:
            1.   A fixed foam or other recognized extinguishing system
embodying a supply of the extinguishing medium;
            2.   A system employing a pipeline for conveying foam from a point
outside the dike to the tank; or
            3.   Portable overshot devices for applying foam over the rim of
the tank. Where reliance is placed on a pipeline for conveying foam, the
pipeline shall be so installed and attached as to be an integral part of the
tank. Where reliance is placed on a portable overshot device, the
practicability of its use shall be demonstrated before approval. Approved foam-
generating equipment of sufficient capacity should be available on the property
or by response of a municipal or other public fire department, or otherwise
readily available, and there should be on hand or otherwise readily available a
sufficient supply of foam-producing materials as specified in the National Fire
Protection Association Standard for Low-, Medium- and High-Expansion Foam, NFPA
11.
         (f)   Distances from storage tanks. No building used for human
occupancy, except buildings essential to the operation of the storage
facilities, shall be erected within the distances set out in the tables in this
division (E) from such storage tanks.
         (g)   Definition of gastight tank. For purposes of this division (E)
(2), the term GASTIGHT TANK includes so-called conservation type tanks.
   (F)   Diverse ownership. Where tank locations of diverse ownership have a
common boundary, the Director may, with the written consent of the owners,
waive the required distances from the common property line and substitute the
space between tanks as provided in this section.
   (G)   Dikes, diversion walls and catchment basins.
      (1)   Required. Tanks used for the storage of crude petroleum and other
flammable liquids having similar boilover characteristics shall be diked or
provided with approved diversion walls and catchment basins or combinations
thereof.
      (2)   Location. No catchment basin or diked impounding area shall be
located closer to the outer boundary line, or to any building designed for
human occupancy, than the diameter or height, whichever is greater, of the
largest tank served by such basin or area, nor shall any building designed for
human occupancy be erected or placed closer than such distance to any catchment
basin or diked impounding area.
      (3)   Capacity.
         (a)   The net capacity of a catchment basin, diked impounding basin or
any combination thereof shall be equal to the capacity of the largest tank,
plus 10% of the aggregate capacity of all other tanks served.
         (b)   In computing the required capacity of a catchment basin, diked
impounding basin or combination thereof.
            1.   The volume of the largest tank up to the height of the dike
shall be considered as part of the available capacity of a diked impounding
basin.
            2.   No part of the volume of tanks other than the largest tank
shall be considered as part of the available capacity.
            3.   The capacity of a separate catchment basin may be used to
reduce the required capacity of a diked impounding basin provided drainage
sufficient to prevent overflow of the dike and effective control of flow are
provided.
            4.   The capacity of a single separate catchment basin may be
applied to reduce the required capacity of each of the diked impounding basins
draining into it.
      (4)   Construction. Dikes shall be of earth, concrete or solid masonry
designed to be liquid-tight, and shall be maintained. Where piping passes
through dikes, provision shall be made for movement without damage to the dike
and to minimize leaks under emergency conditions. Earthen dikes shall be built
and maintained at a minimum height of two feet, have sloping sides consistent
with the angle of repose of the material used and be not less than two feet
wide at the top. The distance between the inside toe of any dike and the shell
of the tank shall be not less than five feet for tanks not more than 30 feet in
diameter and ten feet for tanks in excess of 30 feet in diameter.
         (a)   Spill dikes. Where tanks within a common diked impounding basin
may cause mutual exposure from spills, spill dikes shall be provided between
tanks of 10,000 barrels or greater individual capacity. Groups of tanks of less
than 10,000 barrels individual capacity and not in excess of 15,000 barrels
aggregate capacity may be enclosed within a single spill dike. The height of
such spill dike shall not exceed 50% of the height of the main or perimeter
dikes.
         (b)   Drainage. Drainage shall be provided at a consistent slope of
not less than 1% away from tanks and fittings to a sump, drain box or other
safe means of disposal located within the diked impounding area and at the
greatest possible distance from the shell of the tank. Traps with not less than
six inches of liquid seal shall be provided between the sumps, drain boxes or
sewer openings within any impounding area and the sewers or drains intended for
the disposal of spills. A valve, operable from outside the dike, shall be
provided in the dike drain system and shall normally be kept closed.
         (c)   Disposal. Approved provisions shall be made for disposing of
water and of oil retained by dikes, impounding or catchment basins.
   (H)   Suspension of requirements. In particular installations, some or all
of the requirements of divisions (D), (E) and (G) above governing storage
facilities may be suspended, in whole or in part, or less restrictive
requirements may be imposed pending further order of the Director, where such
requirements are rendered unnecessary or unreasonable by reason of the then-
existing special features such as topography, nature of occupancy and proximity
to buildings on adjoining property, the height and character of construction of
such buildings, capacity and construction of the proposed tanks and the
character of liquids to be stored, the degree of private fire protection to be
provided and the facilities of the Fire Department to cope with flammable
liquid fires.
   (I)   Skim ponds. Any open, accessible, surface or subsurface installation
used for the disposal of permitted waste liquids shall be fenced in accordance
with the fencing provisions of this subchapter.
   (J)   Loading by truck from production tank sites.
      (1)   Location. Tank vehicle loading racks, loading platforms or movable
loading spouts or arms dispensing flammable liquids shall be separated from
tanks, warehouses, other buildings, public streets and the nearest line of
property that may be built upon by a clear distance of not less than 25 feet,
measured from the nearest position of any fill stem. Buildings for pumps or for
shelter of loading personnel may be part of the loading rack or platform. No
person shall load or unload or permit the loading or unloading of a tank
vehicle, unless such vehicle is located outside of any public street right-of
way.
      (2)   Loading and unloading operations. During the loading or unloading
of a tank vehicle, a qualified person shall be at the loading or unloading
controls. Provision shall be made for the safe disposal of oils released by
overflow and from loading spouts or lines.
   (K)   Maintenance of tanks. All tank tops which are accessible by means of a
ladder, stairs or otherwise shall be maintained in a safe manner. Such tops,
unless constructed and maintained in compliance with the applicable API
standards, shall be made of a substantial material with no openings in excess
of four inches in any dimension except for gauging hatches and similar openings
which can be secured.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-43) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-44 HIGH PRESSURE PIPE SYSTEMS.
   All piping systems to be operated at a pressure in excess of 20% of the
minimum yield strength of the material with which the pipe is fabricated shall
be designed, constructed, operated and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of ANSI Standard B-31.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-44) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 8-8-45—8-8-49 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 8-8-50 FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   Electrical equipment. All electrical equipment shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with the requirements of the National Electrical Code,
as amended and adopted by the city.
   (B)   Internal combustion engines, storage tanks, fired equipment and open
flames. No internal combustion engine, storage tanks, boiler-fired equipment or
open flames, except welding supervised by the production foreperson, drilling
foreperson, drilling engineer, drilling supervisors or safety supervisors,
shall be located closer than 25 feet to a producing well or closer than 100
feet to a drilling well; except that internal combustion engines, and their
fuel tanks, used in the drilling, production and servicing of oil wells are
exempt from this provision. During drilling operations on a drill site of two
acres or less in area where two or more wells are drilled and drilling and
production equipment is located on such sites, the provisions in this division
(B) relating to distances of storage tanks may be altered at the discretion of
the Director after consideration of special features such as topographical
conditions, nature of occupancy and proximity to buildings on adjoining
property and height and character of construction of such buildings, capacity
and construction of proposed tanks and character of liquids to be stored,
degree of private fire protection to be provided and facilities of the Fire
Department to cope with flammable liquid fires.
   (C)   Muffling of exhausts. The engines used in connection with the drilling
of any oil well or in any production equipment of any oil well shall be
equipped with an exhaust muffler to prevent excessive or unusual noise. Means
shall be provided on all engines used during drilling operations to prevent the
escape of flames, sparks, ignited carbon and soot.
   (D)   Flammable waste gases and vapors. Flammable waste gases or vapors
escaping from a production drill site shall be burned or controlled to prevent
hazardous concentrations reaching sources of ignition or otherwise endangering
the area.
      (1)   Flares. Approved means of ignition shall be provided whenever
hydrocarbon gases are released to the air through flares.
      (2)   Venting. Gases or vapors not burned may be discharged to the
atmosphere at a distance not less than 20 feet vertically above grade and not
less than 25 feet horizontally from any source of ignition and at locations
that do not create a hazard to the general area.
   (E)   Waste control on drill site.
      (1)   No person shall permit, or cause to be permitted, the discharge of
any liquid containing crude petroleum or its products into or upon any street,
public highway, drainage canal or ditch, storm drain or flood control channel.
      (2)   No person shall permit, or cause to be permitted, any oil, waste
oil, refuse or waste material to be on the surface of the ground under, around
or near any oil well, pump, boiler, oil storage tank or building, except within
an oil sump, tank, catchment basin or skimming pond. No new sumps or ponds
shall be created without the written approval of the Director.
      (3)   All land within 25 feet of any oil well, flammable liquid tank or
other appurtenance to any such well shall be at all times kept free and clear
of dry weeds, grass, rubbish or other combustible debris. When this distance is
not sufficient to provide reasonable fire safety, a greater distance may be
required, which shall not exceed the height of the derrick or greatest
dimension of the tank.
   (F)   Smoking. No person shall smoke, or cause, permit or allow another
person to smoke, within 50 feet of any well or tank location or any area
contaminated by oil or waste gas.
   (G)   Fire control equipment. A minimum of two fire extinguishers shall be
maintained at all oil well locations where drilling, servicing or repair work
is being conducted. Each such extinguisher shall have a minimum classification
of 208 as set forth in National Fire Protection Association No. 10, Standard
for Portable Fire Extinguishers.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-50) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-51 ENFORCEMENT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   It shall be the duty of the Director to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter. If, at any time, the Director finds any operator is violating any
of the provisions of this subchapter, they may order immediate compliance. If
immediate compliance is not obtained, the Director shall order immediate
cessation of operations. The operator shall immediately comply with the order
of the Director to cease, and shall not resume any operations until written
approval of the Director is had.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-51) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-52 APPEALS.
   (A)   The City Council shall have and exercise the power to hear and
determine appeals where it is alleged there is error or abuse of discretion in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Director in the
administration or enforcement of any of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed in triplicate in the
office of the Director. An appeal from any order, requirement, decision or
determination by the Director must set forth specifically wherein it is claimed
there was an error or abuse of discretion by their action or where the decision
is not supported by the evidence in the matter.
   (C)   Any appeal not filed within ten days from and after the date of the
order, requirement, decision or determination complained of shall be dismissed
by the City Council.
   (D)   Within five days from and after the filing of the appeal, the Director
shall transmit to the City Council all papers involved in the proceedings and
two copies of the appeal. In addition, they may make and transmit to the City
Council such supplementary report as they may deem necessary to present clearly
the facts and circumstances of the case.
   (E)   Upon receipt of the record, the City Council shall set the matter for
hearing and give notice by mail of the time, place and purpose thereof to the
appellant and to the Director and any other party at interest who has requested
in writing to be so notified, and no other notice need be given.
   (F)   Upon the date set for the hearing, the City Council shall hear the
appeal, unless for cause the City Council shall on that date continue the
matter. No notice of continuance need be given if the order therefor is
announced at the time for which the hearing was set.
   (G)   Upon the hearing of such appeal, the City Council may affirm, change
or modify the ruling, decision or determination appealed from, or, in lieu
thereof, may make such other or additional determination as it shall deem
proper in the premises, subject to the same limitations as are placed upon the
Director by this subchapter and by other provisions of law.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-52) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 8-8-53 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such person shall be deemed guilty of
a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter is committed, continued
or permitted, and, upon conviction of any such violation, such person shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500.00 or by imprisonment for not more
than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-53) (Ord. 90-11, § 12, passed 3-6-1990)
TITLE 9: PLANNING AND ZONING
Chapter
   1.   PLANNING
   2.   SAND, GRAVEL AND MINERAL EXTRACTION CODE
   3.   UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICTS
***** CHAPTER 1: PLANNING *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Planning Commission and Zoning Administrator
9-1-1   Establishment of Planning Commission
9-1-2   Terms of office of members of Planning Commission
9-1-3   Meetings of Planning Commission
9-1-4   Compensation and expenses of members of Planning Commission
9-1-5   Powers of Planning Commission
9-1-6   Establishment of office of Zoning Administrator
9-1-7   Designation of Zoning Administrator; Associate Zoning Administrator
9-1-8   Authority of Zoning Administrator
9-1-9   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Comprehensive Zoning Code
Article 1. General Provisions
9-1-10   Purpose and authority
9-1-11   Applicability of code
9-1-12   Prior agreements and approvals
9-1-13   General plan density and intensity
9-1-14   Code interpretations
9-1-15   Use of terms
9-1-16   Severability
9-1-17—9-1-19   Reserved
Article 2. Zoning Districts
9-1-20   Establishment of districts
9-1-21   Adoption of official zoning map
9-1-22   Special zoning symbols
9-1-23   Land uses not listed
9-1-24—9-1-29   Reserved
Article 3. Residential Districts
9-1-30   Summary of district regulations
9-1-31   Purpose and intent of districts
9-1-31.1   RS-1 Rural Residential District
9-1-31.2   RS-2 Residential Estate District
9-1-31.3   RS-3 and RS-4 Single-Family Districts
9-1-31.4   RP Planned Residential District
9-1-31.5   RA Attached Residential District
9-1-31.6   RM Multi-Family District
9-1-32   Permitted uses
9-1-33   Residential development standards
9-1-33.1   Table of development standards
9-1-33.2   RP district precise plans
9-1-33.3   Roof and wall projections
9-1-33.4   Measurement of building height
9-1-33.5   Measurement of setbacks
9-1-33.6   Setbacks from slopes
9-1-33.7   Irregular lots
9-1-34   Illustration of development standards, does not include setbacks from
slopes per §
9-1-33.6
9-1-35   Supplemental residential regulations
9-1-35.1   Parking and signs
9-1-35.2   Fences and walls
9-1-35.3   Accessory structures
9-1-35.4   Garages, carports and driveways
9-1-35.5   Swimming pools, spas and other bodies of water
9-1-35.6   Satellite dish and other antennas
9-1-35.7   Reserved
9-1-35.8   Guest houses
9-1-35.9   Garage sales
9-1-35.10   Home occupations
9-1-35.11   Animals
9-1-35.12   Screening
9-1-35.13   Landscaping and open area
9-1-35.14   Tennis and other game courts
9-1-35.15   Outdoor lighting
9-1-35.16   Special outdoor events
9-1-35.17   Manufactured housing and mobile homes
9-1-35.18   Child daycare homes
9-1-35.19   Reserved
9-1-35.20   Temporary construction and guard offices
9-1-35.21   Relocatable buildings
9-1-35.22   Trash and recyclable materials storage
9-1-35.23   Noise control
9-1-35.24   Model home complexes
9-1-35.25   Gate-guarded neighborhoods
9-1-35.26   Accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units
9-1-35.27   Reserved
9-1-35.28   Transitional and supportive housing
9-1-36   Condominium conversions
9-1-37   Density bonuses and related affordable housing incentives
9-1-38   Group homes
9-1-39   Reasonable accommodation
Article 4. Nonresidential Districts
9-1-40   Summary of nonresidential regulations
9-1-41   Purpose and intent of districts
9-1-41.1   CN Neighborhood Commercial District
9-1-41.2   CC Community Commercial District
9-1-41.3   CO Office Commercial District
9-1-41.4   BP Business Park District
9-1-41.5   PI Public Institutional District
9-1-41.6   Mixed-use town center
9-1-42   Permitted uses
9-1-43   Nonresidential development standards
9-1-43.1   Table of development standards
9-1-43.2   Roof and wall projections
9-1-43.3   Measurement of building height
9-1-43.4   Irregular lots
9-1-44   Illustration of development standards
9-1-45   Supplemental nonresidential regulations
9-1-45.1   Parking and signs
9-1-45.2   Fences and walls
9-1-45.3   Landscaping and open area
9-1-45.4   Screening
9-1-45.5   Detached accessory structures
9-1-45.6   Satellite dish and other antennas
9-1-45.7   Christmas tree sales
9-1-45.8   Halloween pumpkin sales
9-1-45.9   Produce stands
9-1-45.10   Outdoor vendors
9-1-45.11   Permanent outdoor display and storage
9-1-45.12   Sidewalk sales and center-wide events
9-1-45.13   Special outdoor events
9-1-45.14   Outdoor lighting
9-1-45.15   Caretaker residences
9-1-45.16   Temporary construction and guard offices
9-1-45.17   Relocatable buildings
9-1-45.18   Vending machines and recycling facilities
9-1-45.19   Trash and recyclable materials storage
9-1-45.20   Noise control
9-1-45.21   Operational standards for nonresidential uses
9-1-45.22   Hazardous waste and materials
9-1-45.23   Service station standards
9-1-45.24   Child daycare centers
9-1-45.25   Single room occupancy (SRO) hotels
9-1-45.26    Bus stop benches and shelters
9-1-45.27   Emergency shelters
9-1-45.28   Low barrier navigation centers
9-1-46—9-1-49   Reserved
Article 5. Special Purpose Regulations
9-1-50   Purpose and intent
9-1-50.1   PR Parks and Recreation District
9-1-50.2   OS Open Space District
9-1-50.3   MC Managed Care Overlay District
9-1-50.4   FP Floodplain Overlay District
9-1-50.5   Adult-oriented business regulations
9-1-50.6   Fuel modification regulations
9-1-51   Types of special purpose districts and regulations
9-1-52   Permitted uses
9-1-53   Special purpose development standards
9-1-54   Supplemental special purpose regulations
9-1-54.1   Parks and Recreation and Open Space Districts
9-1-54.2   MC Managed Care Overlay District
9-1-54.3   FP Floodplain Overlay District
9-1-54.4   AB adult-oriented business regulations
9-1-54.5   Fuel modification regulations
9-1-54.6   SMC Senior Managed Care Overlay District
9-1-54.7   Landscaping and vegetation regulations
9-1-55   Marijuana dispensing, delivery and cultivation
9-1-55.1   Prohibited activities
9-1-55.2   Violations
9-1-55.3   Public nuisance
9-1-55.4   Civil penalties
9-1-55.5   Housing element site inventory
9-1-56—9-1-59   Reserved
Article 6. Parking
9-1-60   Purpose and intent
9-1-61   General requirements
9-1-62   Alternative parking regulations
9-1-63   Residential parking requirements
9-1-64   Parking facility design standards
9-1-65   Nonresidential parking requirements
9-1-66   Nonresidential spaces required by use
9-1-67   Electric vehicle charging stations
9-1-68—9-1-69   Reserved
Article 7. Signs
9-1-70   Purpose and intent
9-1-71   General provisions
9-1-71.1   General procedures
9-1-71.2   Purpose of signs to be identification
9-1-71.3   Sign placement
9-1-71.4   Sign design criteria
9-1-71.5   Sign illumination
9-1-71.6   Logos and graphics
9-1-71.7   Landscaping of freestanding signs
9-1-71.8   Measurement of sign height and area
9-1-72   Permitted signs in nonresidential districts
9-1-73   Permitted signs in residential districts
9-1-74   Permitted temporary signs
9-1-75   Signs exempt from permit requirements
9-1-76   Sign programs
9-1-77   Prohibited signs
9-1-78   Administration
9-1-78.1   Sign permits
9-1-78.2   Nonconforming signs
9-1-78.3   Enforcement and abatement
9-1-79   Sign definitions
Article 8. Hillside Protection
9-1-80   Short title
9-1-81   Hillside protection regulations
9-1-82—9-1-90   Reserved
Article 9. Community Design Guidelines
9-1-91   General provisions
9-1-91.1   Purpose
9-1-91.2   Goal and supporting objectives
9-1-91.3   Role of guidelines in project review
9-1-91.4   Applicability of design guidelines
9-1-91.5   Text references
9-1-92   Guidelines for nonresidential projects
9-1-92.1   Applicability of nonresidential guidelines
9-1-92.2   Nonresidential site planning
9-1-92.3   Nonresidential landscaping
9-1-92.4   Commercial architecture
9-1-92.5   Office and industrial architecture
9-1-92.6   Cultural depictions
9-1-93   Guidelines for attached residential projects
9-1-93.1   Applicability of residential guidelines
9-1-93.2   Residential site planning
9-1-93.3   Residential landscaping
9-1-93.4   Residential architecture
9-1-94   Design review procedures
9-1-94.1   Applicability of design guidelines to projects
9-1-94.2   Application for design review
9-1-94.3   Project review
9-1-94.4   Appeals
9-1-94.5   Exceptions
9-1-95   Multi-family and mixed-use residential objective development and
design standards
9-1-96—9-1-99   Reserved
Article 10. Transportation Demand Management
9-1-100   Purpose
9-1-101   Policy
9-1-102   Applicability
9-1-103   Programs to be implemented by developer
9-1-104   Implementation and monitoring
9-1-105   Enforcement and penalties
9-1-106   Fees
9-1-107   Appeals
9-1-108   Reserved
9-1-109   Reserved
Article 11. Permits and Amendments
9-1-110   Discretionary actions
9-1-111   Discretionary review authority
9-1-112   Hearings and appeals
9-1-112.1   Public hearings
9-1-112.2   Appeals and call-up review
9-1-113   General procedures
9-1-113.1   General provisions
9-1-113.2   Permit applications
9-1-113.3   Actions by decision-making authority
9-1-113.4   Time limits on processing applications
9-1-113.5   Permit establishment and expiration
9-1-113.6   Review of multi-phase projects
9-1-113.7   Changed plans permit
9-1-113.8   Amendments to discretionary permits
9-1-113.9   Permit revocation
9-1-113.10   Withdrawal of inactive applications
9-1-114   Discretionary permit procedures
9-1-114.1   Site development permits
9-1-114.2   Use permits
9-1-114.3   Variances
9-1-114.4   Reserved
9-1-114.5   Minor adjustments
9-1-114.6   Temporary use permits
9-1-114.7   Home occupation permits
9-1-114.8   Grading permits
9-1-114.9   Certificates of use and occupancy
9-1-114.10   Signs
9-1-115   Adult-oriented business permits
9-1-116   Coastal development permits
9-1-116.1   Coastal zone definitions
9-1-116.2   Coastal zone boundaries and permit requirements
9-1-116.3   Exemptions
9-1-116.4   Coastal development permit procedures
9-1-116.5   Enforcement provisions
9-1-117   Other discretionary actions
9-1-117.1   General plan amendments
9-1-117.2   Specific plans
9-1-117.3   Zone changes and prezoning
9-1-117.4   Zoning code amendments
9-1-117.5   Subdivisions
9-1-117.6   Development agreements
9-1-118   Environmental review
9-1-119   Fees
Article 12. Nonconforming Uses, Lots and Structures
9-1-120   Purpose
9-1-121   Definitions
9-1-122   Continuation of nonconforming uses
9-1-123   Continuation of nonconforming lots
9-1-124   Continuation of nonconforming structures
9-1-125   Destruction and restoration
9-1-126   Plans previously approved
9-1-127   Illegal uses and structures
9-1-128   Nonconforming signs
9-1-129   Reserved
Article 13. Code Enforcement
9-1-130   Purpose
9-1-131   Enforcement responsibilities
9-1-132   Inspection to ensure compliance
9-1-133   Violation enforcement and remedies
9-1-134—9-1-139   Reserved
Article 14. Definitions
9-1-140   Purpose and applicability
9-1-141   Use of terms
9-1-142   Definition of terms
Appendix A   Precise plans for “RP” District
Appendix B   South Laguna specific plan/local coastal program
Appendix C   Aliso Creek planning unit local coastal program
9-1-143—9-1-199   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Subdivision Code
Article 1. General Provisions
9-1-200   Title
9-1-201   Purpose
9-1-202   Prohibitions
9-1-203   Director defined; enforcing officer
9-1-204   Subdivision manual
9-1-205   Subdivision Committee
9-1-206   Authority of Planning Commission
9-1-207   Processing and filing fees
9-1-208   Reserved
9-1-209   Reserved
Article 2. Definitions
9-1-210   Modification of Map Act definitions
9-1-211   Applicability of zoning code, grading code and Map Act definitions
9-1-212   Subdivision code definitions
9-1-213   Definitions (A)
9-1-214   Definitions (B)
9-1-215   Definitions (C)
9-1-216   Definitions (D)
9-1-217   Definitions (E)
9-1-218   Definitions (F)
9-1-219   Definitions (G)
9-1-220   Definitions (H)
9-1-221   Definitions (I)
9-1-222   Reserved
9-1-223   Definitions (M)
9-1-224   Reserved
9-1-225   Definitions (P)
9-1-226   Definitions (R)
9-1-227   Definitions (S)
9-1-228   Reserved
9-1-229   Definitions (V)
9-1-230   Definitions (Z)
Article 3. Types of Maps Permitted
9-1-230.1   Maps and procedures
9-1-231   Tentative tract maps
9-1-232   Tentative parcel maps
9-1-233   Final tract maps
9-1-234   Final parcel maps
9-1-235   Exceptions
9-1-236   Vesting tentative maps
Article 4. Filing of Tentative Maps
9-1-237   Types of maps covered
9-1-238   Form and contents
9-1-239   Persons who may file
9-1-240   Certification of ownership
9-1-241   Title report
9-1-242   Environmental documents
9-1-243   Soils report
9-1-244   Additional information
9-1-245   Reserved
Article 5. Procedures for Tentative Maps
9-1-246   Types of maps covered
9-1-247   Filing
9-1-248   Copies to concerned agencies
9-1-249   Time for action
9-1-250   Reports and recommendations
9-1-251   Review of tentative maps
9-1-252   Substitution of revised maps
9-1-253   Meetings and hearings
9-1-254   Zoning conformance
9-1-255   Findings required
9-1-256   Additional findings required
9-1-257   Modification of maps and conditions of approval
9-1-258   Period of validity; extensions
9-1-259   Appeal to Planning Commission
9-1-260   Appeal to City Council
9-1-261   Reserved
9-1-262   Reserved
Article 6. Standards of Design
9-1-263   Conformance with standards of design
9-1-264   Consistency with general plan and specific plans
9-1-265   Compliance with zoning code
9-1-266   Boundary lines
9-1-267   Lots and parcels
9-1-268   Arterial highways
9-1-269   Private streets
9-1-270   Restricted access to highways
9-1-271   Street widths
9-1-272   Dead-end or cul-de-sac streets
9-1-273   Local street, highway and driveway grades
9-1-274   Curved local street and highway radii
9-1-275   Local street lengths
9-1-276   Local street and highway corner cutoffs and corner radii
9-1-277   Sidewalks and pedestrian ways
9-1-278   Bicycle and equestrian trails
9-1-279   Street lighting
9-1-280   Underground utility lines
9-1-281   Sewers
9-1-282   Drainage and erosion control
9-1-283   Human-made slopes
9-1-284   Parks
9-1-285   Landscaping and screening
9-1-286   Coastal zone subdivisions
9-1-287   Rivers and streams
9-1-288   Lakes and reservoirs
9-1-289   Fire protection
9-1-290   Dangerous conditions to be removed or controlled
9-1-291   Deviations from standards of design
9-1-292   Areas in floodplains
9-1-293   Reserved
9-1-294   Reserved
Article 7. Dedication
9-1-295   Required dedication for public use or benefit
9-1-296   Transfer of ownership required for private use or benefit
9-1-297   Vehicular access rights and abutters’ rights to arterial highways and
local streets
9-1-298   Elementary school sites
9-1-299   Method of dedication
9-1-300   Exceptions
9-1-301   Reserved
Article 8. Improvements Monumentation and Security
9-1-302   Required improvements
9-1-303   Subdivisions of four or less parcels
9-1-304   Standards for improvements
9-1-305   Improvement plans
9-1-306   Agreements in lieu of improvements
9-1-307   Plan checking, engineering and inspection fees
9-1-308   Improvement security
9-1-309   Release of security
9-1-310   Monumentation
9-1-311   Extension of time
9-1-312—9-1-313   Reserved
Article 9. Fees in Lieu of Dedication or Improvement
9-1-314   Local park fees
9-1-315   Drainage fees
9-1-316   Major thoroughfare and bridge fee
9-1-317—9-1-319   Reserved
Article 10. Taxes and Assessments
9-1-320   Certificate from County Tax Collector
9-1-321   Security for payment
9-1-322   Apportionment
9-1-323, 9-1-324   Reserved
Article 11. Requirements and Procedures for Parcel Maps
9-1-325   Content and form
9-1-326   Final parcel map required
9-1-327   Signatures required
9-1-328   Method of approval
9-1-329   Filing with County Recorder
9-1-330   Reserved
Article 12. Requirements and Procedures for Final Maps
9-1-331   Content and form
9-1-332   Final tract map required
9-1-333   Signatures required
9-1-334   Method of approval
9-1-335   Filing with the City Council
9-1-336   Filing with County Recorder
9-1-337   Reserved
Article 13. Waivers and Exceptions
9-1-338   Waivers and exceptions permitted
9-1-339   Types of subdivisions eligible
9-1-340   Waiver procedure
9-1-341   Waiver does not establish parcels
9-1-342   Time limit for recording of certificate of compliance
9-1-343   Waiver for new condominium project
Article 14. Reversions to Acreage
9-1-344   Reversion authorized
9-1-345   Content and form of petitions
9-1-346   Subdivision Committee review
9-1-347   Hearing by City Council
9-1-348—9-1-350   Reserved
Article 15. Certificate of Compliance
9-1-351   Approval
9-1-352   Procedure
9-1-353   Appeal to City Council
9-1-354   Reserved
Article 16. Lot Line Adjustments
9-1-355   Criteria for eligibility
9-1-356   Application, review, appeal and recordation
9-1-357   Reserved
Article 17. Notices of Violation
9-1-358   Tentative notices of violation
9-1-359   Receipt of evidence
9-1-360   Planning Commission determination
9-1-361   Release by certificate of compliance
Article 18. Modifications to Recorded Maps
9-1-362   Modifications authorized
9-1-363   Mandatory findings
9-1-364   Method of approval
9-1-365—9-1-400   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Floodplain Management
9-1-401   Statutory authorization
9-1-402   Findings of fact
9-1-403   Statement of purpose
9-1-404   Methods of reducing flood losses
9-1-405—9-1-420   Reserved
9-1-421   Definitions
9-1-422—9-1-430   Reserved
Article 1. General Provisions
9-1-431   Lands to which this subchapter applies
9-1-432   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
9-1-433   Compliance
9-1-434   Abrogation and greater restrictions
9-1-435   Interpretation
9-1-436   Warning and disclaimer of liability
9-1-437   Severability
9-1-438—9-1-440   Reserved
Article 2. Administration
9-1-441   Establishment of development permit
9-1-442   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
9-1-443   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
9-1-444   Appeals
9-1-445—9-1-450   Reserved
Article 3. Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
9-1-451   Standards of construction
9-1-452   Standards for utilities
9-1-453   Standards for subdivisions
9-1-454   Standards for manufactured homes
9-1-455   Standards for recreational vehicles
9-1-456   Floodways
9-1-457   Coastal high hazard areas
9-1-458   Mudslide (i.e., mudflow) prone areas
9-1-459   Flood-related erosion-prone areas
9-1-460   Reserved
Article 4. Variance Procedure
9-1-461   Nature of variances
9-1-462   Appeal Board
9-1-463   Conditions for variances
9-1-464—9-1-499   Reserved
Subchapter 5. Local Park Code
Article 1. General Provisions
9-1-500   Title
9-1-501   Application
9-1-502   Purpose, authority and objectives
9-1-503   Interpretation and application of article
9-1-504   Responsibility and enforcement
9-1-505   Use of land and fees
9-1-506   General rules of construction and definitions
9-1-507   Specific definitions
9-1-508   Use of fees
9-1-509   Appeals to Planning Commission
9-1-510   Appeals to City Council
9-1-511   Refunds
9-1-512   Modifications
9-1-513—9-1-519   Reserved
Article 2. Requirements for Subdivisions
9-1-520   Applicability
9-1-521   Method of fulfilling requirements
9-1-522   Amount of park land required
9-1-523   Amount of park fees required
9-1-524   Amount of park land and park fees combined
9-1-525   Improvement of dedicated park land
9-1-526   Park land requirements
9-1-527   Park fee procedures
9-1-528   Reserved
9-1-529   Changes following approval of tentative map or division of land
9-1-530   Conformance with general plan
9-1-531—9-1-539   Reserved
Article 3. Requirements for Construction of Dwelling Units on Existing Sites
9-1-540   Payment of fee
9-1-541—9-1-599   Reserved
Subchapter 6. Interim School Facilities Fees
9-1-600   Reserved
9-1-601   Application
9-1-602   Definitions
9-1-603   Fees imposed
9-1-604   Agreement for fees
9-1-605   Exemptions and waivers
9-1-606   Schedule for mitigation
9-1-607   Accounting for fees received
9-1-608   Agreements where two governing boards receive fees
9-1-609   Termination of applicability
9-1-610   Changed conditions
9-1-611   Administration
9-1-612   Change in attendance areas
9-1-613—9-1-699   Reserved
Subchapter 7. Reserved
9-1-700—9-1-799   Reserved
Subchapter 8. Gate-Guarded Neighborhoods
9-1-800   Application for approval
9-1-801   Required information for neighborhood plan; design standards
9-1-802   Plans entailing vacation of public streets
9-1-803   Exceptions to design standards
9-1-804   Review procedure
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. PLANNING COMMISSION AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR ****
§ 9-1-1 ESTABLISHMENT OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   There is hereby created a city planning commission consisting of five
members. Members shall be appointed in accordance with the procedures set forth
in Title 2, Chapter 3. The City Attorney, City Director of Community
Development, City Engineer and the City Traffic Engineer are advisory members
to the City Planning Commission. Advisory members shall not have the right to
vote on any matter before the Commission. The Director of Community
Development, or their designee, shall act as the executive officer to the
Commission. Advisory members may designate a deputy to sit with the Commission
in their absence. The provisions of Title 2, Chapter 3 shall be applicable to
the Planning Commission, except when there is a conflict between the provisions
of Title 2, Chapter 3 and the provisions of this subchapter, in which case the
provisions of this subchapter shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-17, § 2,
passed 4-17-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Administration, see Title 2
§ 9-1-2 TERMS OF OFFICE OF MEMBERS OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The term of office for members of the Planning Commission shall be two
years, except that the initial term of office for three of the members of the
Commission shall expire on December 31, 1991, and the initial term of office
for the other two members of the Commission shall expire on December 31, 1992.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-17, § 2,
passed 4-17-1990; Ord. 90-25, § 2, passed 6-19-1990)
§ 9-1-3 MEETINGS OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission shall meet regularly at least once each month, at a
time and place to be fixed by resolution of the City Council, and it shall hold
such other meetings as it deems necessary.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-17, § 2,
passed 4-17-1990)
§ 9-1-4 COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES OF MEMBERS OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Each member of the Planning Commission shall receive compensation as
established by the City Council and be paid their actual and necessary
traveling expenses while conducting business for the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-17, § 2,
passed 4-17-1990)
§ 9-1-5 POWERS OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   In addition to those powers otherwise provided by law, the Planning
Commission shall have the following powers.
   (A)   The Commission shall have the power to recommend to the officers of
the city adoption of plans and regulations for the future growth, development
and beautification of the city with respect to public and private development.
   (B)   The Commission shall have the power to recommend to the officers of
the city plans consistent with the future growth and development of the city in
order to secure to the city and its inhabitants proper sanitation and proper
service of all public utilities and transportation facilities.
   (C)   The Commission shall have the power to make recommendations to any
public authorities or any corporation or individuals of the city with reference
to the location of any proposed buildings, structures or works.
   (D)   The Planning Commission is hereby designated as an advisory agency as
that term is used in the Subdivision Map Act, being California Government Code,
Title 7, Division 2, §§ 66410, and shall have the authority to review and
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove tentative tract maps and tentative
parcel maps and lot line adjustments when the lot line adjustments are referred
by the Subdivision Committee or when the action of the Subdivision Committee is
appealed.
   (E)   The Commission shall have the power to perform those tasks required of
it by the City Council and to do those things otherwise required by law of a
Planning Commission acting as a planning agency of a city, including
undertaking the study for, preparation and recommendation of a general plan as
required by law, covering a comprehensive, long-term general plan for the
development of the city.
   (F)   (1)   The Community Development Director may serve as the planning
agency specifically for reporting upon conformity determinations with the
city’s general plan pursuant to California Government Code, § 65402 for the
following street-related or similar acquisitions, dispositions, vacations and/
or abandonments:
         (a)   The disposition of the remainder of a larger parcel which was
acquired and used in part for street purposes or other public purposes of a
minor nature;
         (b)   Acquisitions, dispositions, vacations or abandonments for street
widening of a minor nature;
         (c)   Alignment projects, provided such dispositions for street
purposes; acquisitions, dispositions or abandonments for street widening; or
alignment projects are of a minor nature; or
         (d)   Other similar acquisitions, dispositions, vacations or
abandonments for public purposes of a minor nature.
      (2)   The Community Development Director shall determine whether the
street-related or similar acquisition, disposition, vacation and/or abandonment
is considered “of a minor nature” under this section. If the acquisition,
disposition, vacation and/or abandonment is not considered “of a minor nature”,
the Community Development Director shall refer the conformity determination to
the Planning Commission.
   (G)   The City Council is hereby designated as an appeal board as that term
is used in the Subdivision Map Act, and shall hear appeals from actions of the
Planning Commission with respect to tentative tract maps, tentative parcel maps
and lot line adjustments.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-17, § 2,
passed 4-17-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 2, passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-6 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   There is hereby created the office of zoning administrator.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-6) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-17, § 2,
passed 4-17-1990)
§ 9-1-7 DESIGNATION OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR; ASSOCIATE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Director of Community Development shall act as the Zoning Administrator.
The Director shall also appoint an associate zoning administrator to act for
and on behalf of the Zoning Administrator during their absence.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-7) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-17, § 2,
passed 4-17-1990)
§ 9-1-8 AUTHORITY OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to conduct public hearings
and to make determinations regarding discretionary permit applications in
accordance with Title 9, Chapter 1, Subchapter 2, Article 11.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-8) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-17, § 2,
passed 4-17-1990)
§ 9-1-9 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. COMPREHENSIVE ZONING CODE ****
** ARTICLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS **
§ 9-1-10 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Title. This subchapter shall be known as the “City of Laguna Niguel
Zoning Code”, the “zoning code” or, for purposes of this subchapter, may be
referred to by the short title “code”.
   (B)   Purpose. The zoning code is intended to guide the development of the
city in an orderly manner; implement the policies of the general plan; protect
and enhance the quality of the natural and built environment; promote the
public health, safety and general welfare by regulating the use of land and
buildings and the location and basic form of structures; and provide the
physical, environmental, economic and social advantages that result from the
orderly planned use of land resources.
   (C)   Authority. The zoning code is enacted based on the authority vested in
the city and the state, including, but not limited to, the California
Constitution, Planning and Zoning Law (California Government Code, §§ 65000 et
seq.), CEQA (California Public Resources Code, §§ 21000 et seq.) and other
applicable state laws. This code is also adopted pursuant to the Public
Resources Code, §§ 30000 et seq. for the purpose of complementing the city’s
local coastal program.
   (D)   General requirements. Land or buildings may be used and structures may
be erected or altered only in accordance with the regulations in this Title 9.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-10) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, § 3,
passed 8-3-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see Title 10
   Buildings and construction, see Title 8
   Health and sanitation, see Title 6
   Regulations for specific businesses, see §§
5-3-1 et seq.
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 99-107, § 3, repealed Subchapter 2, §§ 9-1-19 through 9-1-166, in its
entirety, and § 5 of said ordinance replaced it with a new Subchapter 2, §§ 9-
1-10 through 9-1-142.
    Former Subchapter 2 pertained to similar material and derived from Ord. 90-
11, § 13, adopted 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-22, § 1, adopted 6-5-1990; Ord. 91-33, §§ 1
(9-1-142.010), 1(9-1-142.015), 1(9-1-142.020), 1(9-1-142.025), 1(9-1-142.030),
1(9-1-142.035), 1(9-1-142.040) and 1(9-1-142.045), adopted 5-7-1991; Ord. 91-
35, §§ 1 through 7, adopted 6-4-1991; Ord. 91-36, § 2, adopted 7-2-1991; Ord.
91-44, § 2, adopted 8-20-1991; Ord. 91-46, §§ 2 and 4, adopted 10-1-1991; Ord.
91-49, § 1, adopted 11-19-1991; Ord. 91-50, § 2, adopted 12-3-1991; Ord. 91-52,
§§ 1 and 2, adopted 11-19-1991; Ord. 92-57, §§ 3 and 5, adopted 8-4-1992; Ord.
93-64, §§ 1 through 6, adopted 5-4-1993; Ord. 93-66, §§ 1 and 4 through 10,
adopted 7-6-1993; Ord. 93-67, § 3, adopted 9-7-1993; Ord. 94-76, § 1, adopted
8-16-1994; Ord. 95-86, §§ 2 and 4 through 6, adopted 12-5-1995; and from Ord.
98-100, §§ 4 through 7, adopted 3-17-1998.
§ 9-1-11 APPLICABILITY OF CODE.
   (A)   Compliance required. Except as specifically provided in this zoning
code, no uses or structures shall be established, substituted, expanded,
constructed, altered, moved, maintained or otherwise changed and no lot lines
shall be created or changed except in conformity with this code.
   (B)   Applicability to property. This code shall apply to all land within
the city except as otherwise provided by this section.
   (C)   Applicability to road rights-of-way.
      (1)   Within dedicated public and private road right-of-way, only the
following are subject to the land use regulations of this code:
         (a)   Signs not placed or maintained by public agencies. However, bus
bench and bus shelter signs in road rights-of-way are regulated by §§
7-1-120 et seq.;
         (b)   Walls or fences not erected or maintained by public agencies;
and
         (c)   Landscaping.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the preceding, all uses and structures within the
coastal zone may be subject to a coastal development permit.
   (D)   Applicability to land owned or leased by city. Except for road rights-
of-way, land owned in fee by the city or land leased to or used by the city is
exempt from all of the land use regulations of this code.
   (E)   Limitations on validity of permits. The issuance or granting of a
permit or approval of plans and specifications shall not be construed to be an
approval of any violation of any provision of this code. The issuance of such a
permit shall not prevent the city from thereafter requiring the correction of
violations of this code or of any other ordinance of the city.
   (F)   General relationship to other codes. The regulations of this title and
requirements or conditions imposed pursuant to this title shall not supersede
any other regulations or requirements adopted or imposed by the city, the state
or any federal agency that has jurisdiction by law over uses and development
authorized by this title. All uses and development authorized by this title
shall comply with all other such regulations and requirements. Where conflict
occurs between the provisions of this title and any other city ordinance,
title, chapter, resolution, guideline or regulation, the more restrictive
provisions shall control, unless otherwise specified, nor shall any provision
of this code be deemed to repeal or amend the city’s building regulations
(Title 8).
   (G)   Relationship to CEQA. When a project application pursuant to the
provisions of the zoning regulations is determined to be subject to the
provisions of CEQA, the application shall be reviewed in accordance with the
provisions of the zoning regulations, CEQA (California Public Resources Code,
§§ 21000 et seq.), the CEQA guidelines (California Code of Regulations, Title
14, §§ 15000 et seq.) and any environmental guidelines and other applicable
rules adopted by the city.
   (H)   Effect of code on private agreements. This code is separate from and
independent of any condition, covenant, restriction, easement or other
agreement between parties, except that where this code is more restrictive or
imposes a higher standard than that required by such agreement, this code shall
control.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-11) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, § 4,
passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-12 PRIOR AGREEMENTS AND APPROVALS.
   (A)   Development agreements. Notwithstanding any provision of this zoning
code, any development agreement which is valid as of the effective date of this
code shall remain in full force and effect until expiration of said agreement.
Permitted land uses, development standards and other zoning provisions referred
to in such a development agreement shall supersede the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Building permits. Any development project approved prior to the
effective date of this code for which a building permit has been issued within
180 days after the effective date of this code may be constructed in accordance
with the zoning regulations in effect at the time of its approval; provided all
other regulations are satisfied. Any project for which a building permit has
not been issued within 180 days after the effective date of this code shall
comply with this code.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses and lots. Any land use or lot approved prior to the
effective date of this code which does not conform to the provisions of this
code may nevertheless be established or recorded in accordance with approved
plans or maps; provided all other regulations in effect at the time of approval
are satisfied.
   (D)   Approved vesting maps. Any vesting tentative tract or parcel map which
was approved pursuant to earlier ordinances of the city which is now
inconsistent with this code may be continued and completed in accordance with
the provisions of its approval; provided it is completed within the time limit
in effect at the time of its approval without extension of time thereof and
provided it complies with all other ordinances and laws in effect at the time
of its approval.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-12) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-13 GENERAL PLAN DENSITY AND INTENSITY.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this zoning code, the limitations on
density, unit counts, square footages, floor area ratios and other similar
measures established in the general plan shall constitute the upper limit of
development intensity for all land in the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-13) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-14 CODE INTERPRETATIONS.
   Interpretations of the provisions of this zoning code shall be made by the
Director. Such interpretations may be referred to the Planning Commission for
review if the Director determines on a case-by-case basis that the public
interest would be better served by such referral.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-14) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-15 USE OF TERMS.
   (A)   Rules for construction of language. The following general rules of
construction shall apply to the textual provisions of this code.
      (1)   The specific shall supersede the general.
      (2)   The word “shall” is mandatory. The word “may” is discretionary. The
word “should” identifies a regulation or design guideline which must be
followed in the absence of compelling opposing considerations identified by the
city decision-making body.
      (3)   In the case of any difference of meanings or implication between
the text regarding a provision of the code and any title, heading, caption or
illustration, the text shall control.
      (4)   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, words used in the
present tense include the future, words used in the singular include the plural
and words used in the plural include the singular.
      (5)   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, certain
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows.
         (a)   “And” indicates that all connected items or provisions shall
apply.
         (b)   “Or” indicates that the connected items or provisions may apply
singly or in any combination.
         (c)   “Either ... or” indicates that the connected items or provisions
shall apply, but not in combination.
      (6)   Unless otherwise indicated, all public officials, bodies and
agencies to which reference is made are those of the city.
      (7)   DIRECTOR means the Community Development Director of the city or
the Director’s authorized agent or representative.
   (B)   Time periods. The use of the term DAYS to describe a specific time
period does not include the day the action was taken but does include all
subsequent days unless the last day falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or a legal
city holiday, in which case the next business day shall be the last day of the
time period.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-15) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-16 SEVERABILITY.
   The City Council hereby declares that each portion of this zoning code is
separate, distinct and independent and the invalidity of any portion shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions. The City Council further
declares that it would have enacted this code and each portion thereof
irrespective of the fact that any portion or portions are declared invalid or
ineffective. Therefore, in the event that any map, diagram, regulation or other
portion of this code is declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid or ineffective in whole or in part, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-16) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§§ 9-1-17—9-1-19 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 2. ZONING DISTRICTS **
§ 9-1-20 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The city is hereby divided into zoning districts which are consistent
with and implement the general plan.
   (B)   The following districts are established:
      (1)   RS-1: Rural Residential District;
      (2)   RS-2: Residential Estate District;
      (3)   RS-3: Single-Family District 3;
      (4)   RS-4: Single-Family District 4;
      (5)   RP: Planned Residential District;
      (6)   RA: Attached Residential District;
      (7)   RM: Multi-Family District;
      (8)   CN: Neighborhood Commercial District;
      (9)   CC: Community Commercial District;
      (10)   CO: Office Commercial District;
      (11)   BP: Business Park District;
      (12)   PI: Public Institutional District;
      (13)   PR: Parks and Recreation District;
      (14)   OS: Open Space District;
      (15)   MC: Managed Care Overlay District; and
      (16)   FP: Floodplain Overlay District.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-20) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-21 ADOPTION OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Adoption of map. The boundaries of the zoning districts established in
this zoning code shall be shown on that map entitled “City of Laguna Niguel
Official Zoning Map”, available for public examination at the City Community
Development Department.
   (B)   Interpretation of district boundaries. Where uncertainty exists
regarding the precise boundaries of districts on the official zoning map, the
following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets shall be construed as congruent with such centerlines. Boundaries
indicated as approximately following the right-of-way lines of streets shall be
construed as congruent with such right-of-way lines and shall further be
construed as moving with such right-of-way lines.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following lot lines shall be
construed as congruent with such lot lines.
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of the lines
described in division (B)(1) and (B)(2) above shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the official zoning map shall be determined by
the scale of the map.
      (4)   Where any public right-of-way is officially vacated or abandoned,
the zoning district regulations applied to abutting property shall thereafter
extend to the centerline of such vacated or abandoned right-of-way.
      (5)   In cases where uncertainty exists after application of rules in
divisions (B)(1) through (B)(4) above, the Director shall determine the
district boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-21) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-22 SPECIAL ZONING SYMBOLS.
   (A)   In any zoning district, the minimum lot size and setbacks and the
maximum building height and floor area ratio may be different from that set
forth in the district regulations if so specified on the official zoning map.
   (B)   Such alternate development standards shall supersede those in the
district regulations and shall be specified by means of the following zoning
map symbols.
      (1)   A number following the district designation and connected by a
colon (:) shall designate the minimum lot size. Where the number is greater
than 100, it shall indicate the minimum size in square feet; where the number
is less than 100, it shall indicate the minimum size in acres.
Example: “RS-2:10,000” (minimum lot size 10,000 square feet) or “RS-2:1”
(minimum lot size one acre)
      (2)   Numbers following the district designation and enclosed by
parentheses shall designate the minimum setbacks in feet. Within the
parentheses, setbacks shall be separated by a slash (/) and shall be shown in
the following order: (front/side/rear).
Example: “RS-2 (20/5/25)”
      (3)   A number shown below and separated from the district designation by
a horizontal line shall designate the maximum height of buildings or structures
in feet.
Example:
“CC”
   (4)   A number following the district designation and enclosed by brackets
shall designate maximum floor area ratio (FAR, the ratio of building square
footage to buildable site area).
Example: “CC [.35]”
      (5)   The preceding symbols may be used in any combination to show
minimum lot size, minimum setbacks, maximum floor area ratio or maximum height.
Example:
“RS-2 (20/5/25) [.35]:1”
(Prior Code, § 9-1-22) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-23 LAND USES NOT LISTED.
   (A)   (1)   Use not listed is not allowed. If a use of land is not
specifically listed in permitted uses section of the applicable zone, the use
shall not be allowed, except as provided below.
      (2)   Director’s determination.
         (a)   Because not every possible land use can be identified in this
zoning code and because new land uses evolve over time, this section
establishes the Director’s authority to determine if unlisted uses shall be
permitted outright, permitted with a use permit or not permitted in a zoning
district.
         (b)   In order to determine that a use is permitted outright or with a
use permit or use permit, the Director shall ensure consistency with the
following objectives:
            1.   The proposed use is consistent with the goals and policies of
the general plan;
            2.   The proposed use is consistent with the purpose and intent of
the district in which it is to be located;
            3.   The proposed use is similar to other uses which are permitted
in the district in which it is to be located; and
            4.   The proposed use will not adversely affect the health, safety
or welfare of residents or other persons in the vicinity of the use.
   (B)   Any determination on a proposed unlisted use may be referred to the
Planning Commission for review if the Director determines on a case-by-case
basis that the public interest would be better served by such referral.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-23) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, § 5,
passed 8-3-2021)
§§ 9-1-24—9-1-29 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 3. RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS **
§ 9-1-30 SUMMARY OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Section
9-1-32 specifies the land uses allowed in each residential district.
   (B)   Development standards. Section
9-1-33 specifies the development standards for each district.
   (C)   Supplemental regulations. Supplemental regulations for residential
districts are as follows:
      (1)   Parking and signs.....3-14;
      (2)   Fences and walls.....3-14;
      (3)   Accessory structures.....3-17;
      (4)   Garages, carports and driveways.....3-18;
      (5)   Swimming pools and spas.....3-20;
      (6)   Satellite dish and other antennas.....3-21;
      (7)   Second residential units.....3-24;
      (8)   Guest houses.....3-26;
      (9)   Garage sales.....3-27;
      (10)   Home occupations.....3-27;
      (11)   Horses and other animals.....3-29;
      (12)   Screening.....3-30;
      (13)   Landscaping and open area.....3-30;
      (14)   Tennis and other game courts.....3-32;
      (15)   Outdoor lighting.....3-33;
      (16)   Special outdoor events.....3-34;
      (17)   Manufactured housing and mobile homes.....3-35;
      (18)   Child daycare homes.....3-36;
      (19)   Residential care facilities.....3-38;
      (20)   Temporary construction and guard offices.....3-38;
      (21)   Relocatable buildings.....3-39;
      (22)   Trash and recyclable materials storage.....3-39;
      (23)   Noise control.....3-39;
      (24)   Model home complexes.....3-40; and
      (25)   Gate-guarded neighborhoods.....3-42.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-30) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-31 PURPOSE AND INTENT OF DISTRICTS.
   Subsections included: all references to §
9-1-31 include §§
9-1-31.1 through
9-1-31.6.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-31) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-31.1 RS-1 RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   Purpose and intent: to provide for large-lot rural estates with abundant
open space on each lot.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-31.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-31.2 RS-2 RESIDENTIAL ESTATE DISTRICT.
   Purpose and intent: to provide for low-density estates with ample setbacks.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-31.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-31.3 RS-3 AND RS-4 SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICTS.
   Purpose and intent: to provide for the development and preservation of low-
and medium-density neighborhoods with single-family residences on individual
lots.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-31.3) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-31.4 RP PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   Purpose and intent: to provide for the development and preservation of
medium-density planned unit developments with attached homes, detached homes or
a mixture of both. Setbacks and other development standards are to be tailored
specifically to each project by means of a precise development plan which is
approved with the project and incorporated into this zoning code as an
appendix.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-31.4) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-31.5 RA ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   Purpose and intent: to provide for the development and preservation of
medium-density neighborhoods composed primarily of attached development with
each unit attached to another unit on only one side.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-31.5) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-31.6 RM MULTI-FAMILY DISTRICT.
   Purpose and intent: to provide for the development and preservation of
developments containing multiple dwelling units on each lot, consisting of
either rental apartments or condominiums with individual ownership of units.
Each project will have ample common open space and recreation facilities.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-31.6) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-32 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Development permits required. Table 3.1 below specifies whether a use
or structure is permitted within a zoning district. In most cases, development
to establish a land use requires approval of a site development permit and/or
other permits as set forth in Subchapter 2, Article 11.
   (B)   Uses not listed in table. Land uses which are not listed in Table 3.1
below are not permitted, unless the Community Development Director or the
Planning Commission determines that such use is consistent with one of the
permitted use categories listed preceding (e.g., principal use, conditional use
and the like) in accordance with §
9-1-23.
   (C)   Table of permitted uses.
      (1)   Table 3.1, “Permitted residential uses”, below specifies those uses
and structures which are permitted within each residential district.
      (2)   The letters in the columns beneath the district designations mean
the following.
         (a)   P. The use is permitted as a principal use within the district.
         (b)   A. The use is permitted only if accessory to the principal
residential use on the site.
         (c)   U. The use is permitted as a principal or accessory use if a use
permit is approved.
         (d)   H. The home occupation is permitted if accessory to the
principal residential use and if a home occupation permit is approved.
         (e)   T. The use is permitted on a temporary basis if a temporary use
permit is approved.
         (f)   X. The use is prohibited in the district.
   (D)   Exemption. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this
section is not intended to apply to the retail sale by delivery of medicinal
cannabis as defined and regulated under Senate Bill 1186, known as the
“Medicinal Cannabis Patients’ Right of Access Act”.
Table 3.1: PERMITTED RESIDENTIAL USES.
P =
Permitted
use
T =
Temporary
use permit
A =
Accessory
use        DISTRICT
U = Use
permit
X =
Prohibited
use
H = Home
occupation
permit
                       RS-         RS-3/RS-
LAND USE   RS-1 Rural  2           4 Single- RP Planned  RA Attached RM Multi-
           residential Residential family    residential residential family
                       estate
Table 3.1: PERMITTED RESIDENTIAL USES.
P = Permitted use
T = Temporary use permit
A = Accessory use                                                          DISTRICT
U = Use permit
X = Prohibited use
H = Home occupation permit
                                                                                       RS-         RS-3/
                                                                           RS-1 Rural  2           RS-     RP Planned  RA Attached RM
LAND USE                                                                   residential Residential 4       residential residential Multi-
                                                                                       estate      Single-                         family
                                                                                                   family
ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
Accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units, subject to §A           A           A       A           A           A
9-1-35.26
Fences and walls, subject to §                                            A           A           A       A           A           A
9-1-35.2
Garages and carports, subject to §                                        A           A           A       A           A           A
9-1-35.4
Guest houses, subject to §                                                A           A           A       X           X           X
9-1-35.8
Home occupations, subject to §                                            H           H           H       H           H           H
9-1-35.10
Keeping of horses, subject to §                                           A           U           X       U           X           X
9-1-35.11
Keeping of household pets, subject to §                                   A           A           A       A           A           A
9-1-35.11
Other accessory uses and structures which are customarily associated with
and subordinate to the principal use on the premises are consistent with   A           A           A       A           A           A
the purpose and intent of the zoning district per §
9-1-23
Outdoor antennas and satellite dishes, subject to §                       U           U           U       U           U           U
9-1-35.6
Patio covers, decks and gazebos, subject to §                             A           A           A       A           A           A
9-1-35.3
Recreation vehicle parking                                                 A           A           A       A           A           A
Storage and other accessory buildings, subject to §                       A           A           A       A           A           A
9-1-35.3
Swimming pools, spas and other bodies of water, subject to §              A           A           A       A           A           A
9-1-35.5
AGRICULTURAL USES
Orchards/tree farming                                                      P           X           X       X           X           X
GROUP LIVING AND GROUP CARE USES
Group home, 6 or fewer persons                                             P           P           P       P           P           P
Managed care facilities, 7 or more persons, subject to §                  X           X           X       X           X           U
9-1-54.2. The site must be within the MC Overlay District
Small and large child daycare homes, subject to §                         P           P           P       P           P           P
9-1-35.18
OPEN SPACE AND RECREATIONAL USES
Bicycle, equestrian and hiking trails                                      P           P           P       P           P           P
Clubhouses and community pools/cabañas                                    P           P           P       P           P           P
Lighted tennis and other game courts on private property, subject to §    U           U           U       U           U           U
9-1-35.14
Public parks, playfields and open space, lighted or unlighted              P           P           P       P           P           P
Unlighted tennis and other game courts on private property, subject to §  A           A           U       P           P           P
9-1-35.14
OTHER USES
Adult-oriented businesses                                                  X           X           X       X           X           X
Any use prohibited by federal and/or state law                             X           X           X       X           X           X
Marijuana activities, including dispensing, cultivation and delivery       X           X           X       X           X           X
                                                                           Director or Planning Commission to determine whether use is
Other principal, accessory or temporary uses not listed above              permitted in accordance with §
                                                                           9-1-23
Public flood control facilities and devices                                P           P           P       P           P           P
Utility substations and facilities                                         U           U           U       U           U           U
RESIDENTIAL USES
Apartment projects (rental or condominium)                                 X           X           X       X           X           P
Bed and breakfast establishments                                           Prohibited in all residential districts
Group home                                                                 Permitted in accordance with §
                                                                           9-1-38
Manufactured homes, subject to §                                          P           P           P       X           X           X
9-1-35.17
Single-family detached dwellings                                           P           P           P       P           X           X
Single-family patio homes (i.e., “zero lot-line” detached)             X           X           X       P           X           X
Town home dwellings (typically three or more units per building)           X           X           X       P           X           P
Transitional and supportive housing                                        Permitted in accordance with §
                                                                           9-1-35.28
Two-unit attached dwellings (two units per building)                       X           X           X       P           P           P
TEMPORARY USES
Construction trailers and guard offices, subject to §                     T           T           T       T           T           T
9-1-35.20
Garage sales, subject to §                                                A           A           A       A           A           A
9-1-35.9
Mobile home residence during construction of a new dwelling, subject to § T           T           T       X           X           X
9-1-35.17
Model home complexes and sales offices, subject to §                      T           T           T       T           T           T
9-1-35.24
Special outdoor events, subject to §                                      T           T           T       T           T           T
9-1-35.16
Use of relocatable building, subject to §                                 T           T           T       T           T           T
9-1-35.21
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-32) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2004-134, §
3.A, passed 2-17-2004; Ord. 2011-163, § 3, passed 5-3-2011; Ord. 2016-184, § 2,
passed 10-4-2016; Ord. 2017-187, § 2, passed 6-6-2017; Ord. 2018-194, § 2,
passed 6-5-2018; Ord. 2021-210, § 6, passed 8-3-2021; Ord. 2024-228, passed 5-
21-2024)
§ 9-1-33 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All references to this §
9-1-33 shall include §§
9-1-33.1 through
9-1-33.7. These sections set forth standards for the development of property
within residential districts, such as minimum setbacks, maximum structure
heights and minimum lot sizes.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-33) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-33.1 TABLE OF DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   Table 3.2 below and Figures 3.1 and 3.2 below in §
9-1-34 specify standards for the development of property within residential
districts. However, alternate standards different from those in Table 3.2 below
shall apply if a building line plan has been adopted for a specific tract or
project (see official zoning map and/or Appendix A). RP District standards
marked with an asterisk shall be established by means of an approved precise
plan for each project and incorporated into this code in Appendix A. New or
amended precise plans for RP projects shall be added to Appendix A upon
approval by the city.
TABLE 3.2: RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
STANDARD
                        RS-         RS-     RS-                             RM
            RS-1 Rural  2           3       4       RP Planned  RA Attached Multi-
            residential Residential Single- Single- Residential residential family
                        estate      family  family
TABLE 3.2: RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
DEVELOPMENT        DISTRICT
STANDARD
                               RS-         RS-     RS-                             RM
                   RS-1 Rural  2           3       4       RP Planned  RA Attached Multi-
                   residential Residential Single- Single- Residential residential family
                               estate      family  family
Landscaping        Refer to § 9-1-35.13 for requirements.
Maximum structure  35          35          35      35      35          35          35
height (feet)
Minimum common
open area (% of    N/A         N/A         N/A     N/A     25 7        N/A         25 7
net site area)
Minimum driveway   20 6        20 6        20 6    20 6    *           20 6        20 6
length (feet) 6
Minimum front yard 20          17 1        17 1    17 1    *           17          N/A
setback (feet)
Minimum lot size   4 ac        8,000       3,000   3,000   *           2,000       N/A
(square feet)
Minimum perimeter  N/A         N/A         N/A     N/A     10/25 8     N/A         10/25
setbacks (feet)                                                                    8
Minimum rear yard  25          25          15 4    10 4    *           10 4        N/A
setback (feet)
Minimum Main       10          10          10      10      10          10          10
setback building
from    ADUs       4           4           4       4       4           4           4
tops
and
toes of
slopes
2:1 or  Accessory
steeper structures 3           3           3       3       3           3           3
and     5
over 10
feet
high
(feet)
5
Minimum side yard  8           8           5       5       *           0/5 3       N/A
setback (feet) 2
Parking            Refer to §
                   9-1-61 for requirements.
* RP standards shall be as shown on approved precise plan for each project. See Appendix
A.
1 For setbacks for side-entry type garages, the front setback may be reduced to 10 feet
for the garage portion only, in accordance with §
9-1-35.4 (Garages, carports and driveways).
2 Minimum side setback = 10 feet adjacent to streets.
3 For RA attached dwellings, 0 feet on attached side and 5 feet minimum on open side.
4 Where a rear yard abuts a street, the rear setback shall be a minimum 20 feet.
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-33.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
7, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-33.2 RP DISTRICT PRECISE PLANS.
   RP District setbacks and other development standards shall be established by
means of an approved precise plan for each project and incorporated into this
code in Appendix A. New or amended precise plans for RP projects shall be added
to Appendix A upon approval by the city. Precise plans shall be processed via a
site development permit.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-33.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-33.3 ROOF AND WALL PROJECTIONS.
   (A)   Roof projections. Notwithstanding the height standards of §
9-1-33.4, chimneys, roof vents, finials, spires and similar architectural
features not containing usable space are permitted to extend up to three feet
above the maximum structure height set forth in Table 3.2 above.
   (B)   Wall projections. The following architectural projections are
permitted to encroach into the required setbacks specified in Table 3.2 above.
      (1)   Roof overhangs, chimneys, awnings, canopies and similar projections
may encroach a maximum of two feet into any required setback; provided such
projections are no closer than three feet from any property line.
      (2)   Cantilevered seating windows, ledges and similar projections, which
are located a minimum of one foot above the floor and do not increase a
building’s usable floor area, may encroach a maximum of two feet into any
required setback provided such projections are no closer than three feet from
any property line.
      (3)   Subject to approval of a minor adjustment, second-story balconies,
elevated decks and exterior stairways may encroach a maximum of four feet into
required front and rear setbacks; provided such projections
are no closer than three feet from any property line. Such projections shall
not encroach into required side setbacks.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-33.3) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
8, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-33.4 MEASUREMENT OF BUILDING HEIGHT.
   (A)   Unless specifically stated otherwise, for purposes of this code, the
maximum height of buildings and other structures shall be defined as the
vertical distance from the ground to an imaginary plane above and parallel to
the ground. For residential districts, this imaginary plane shall be located at
a vertical distance of 35 feet from ground level, and the building shall not
penetrate that plane.
   (B)   GROUND LEVEL shall be defined by the Director as the lower of the
following alternatives (i.e., that which is the lowest level above sea level):
      (1)   The finish grades at the exterior walls of an existing or proposed
building; and
      (2)   The existing grades on the site.
   (C)   The preceding definition of maximum building height is illustrated on
the next page:
FIGURE 3.1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4315.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-33.4) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-33.5 MEASUREMENT OF SETBACKS.
   (A)   Measurement.
      (1)   SETBACK means the distance that a building or other structure or a
parking lot or other facility must be located from a lot line, property line or
other specified boundary. Setbacks for residential development are specified in
Table 3.2 in §
9-1-33.1, except where different setbacks are provided for special situations
in this and following sections.
      (2)   Setbacks are measured along a line drawn at a 90-degree angle to
whichever of the following results in the greatest setback:
         (a)   Front setbacks: the front lot line or the ultimate street right-
of-way;
         (b)   Rear setbacks: the rear lot line or the ultimate street right-
of-way; and
         (c)   Side setbacks: the side lot line or the ultimate street right-
of-way.
   (B)   Surface easements. Where a surface easement for recreation trail or
vehicular access has been granted across any portion of a lot, the building
setback shall be a minimum of five feet from the edge of that easement.
Setbacks from utility access easements shall be zero.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-33.5) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
10, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-33.6 SETBACKS FROM SLOPES.
   Lots that have slopes which are 2:1 or steeper and over ten feet in height
require all structures to meet the following setbacks.
   (A)   All main buildings and all accessory structures over 12 feet in height
shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from the tops and toes of such slopes.
   (B)   Accessory structures 12 feet in height or less shall be set back a
minimum of three feet from the tops and toes of such slopes.
   (C)   Accessory dwelling units shall be setback a minimum of four feet from
the tops and toes of such slopes.
   (D)   A main building, accessory dwelling unit or accessory structure may be
permitted on or cantilevered over such slopes if a minor adjustment is
approved; provided the structure conforms to the accessory structure standards
of §
9-1-35.3 and/or the accessory dwelling unit or junior accessory dwelling unit
standards of §
9-1-35.26. Notwithstanding other provisions of this code regarding height
measurement, height shall be measured via a plumb line from the top-most point
of the structure to the finish grade directly below the top-most point. In
addition to the findings required for approval of a minor adjustment, a finding
shall be made that there are special circumstances on the property, such as
unusual topography or lot configuration, which require the adjustment in order
for the subject property to enjoy the same ability to accommodate the structure
as other properties in the vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-33.6) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
11, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-33.7 IRREGULAR LOTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The setbacks specified in Table 3.2 in §
9-1-33.1 are based on rectangular lots. Nonrectangular lots, lots with three
sides or more than four sides and other nonstandard lots require special
measurement techniques in order to achieve the purpose of setback requirements
(i.e., the appropriate separation of structures from streets and other
properties). The purpose of this section is to provide standards for the
establishment and measurement of setbacks on irregular lots. (See Subchapter 2,
Article 14 for definition of lot lines.)
FIGURE 3.2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4317.jpg]
 
   (B)   Front setbacks. Front yard setbacks shall be measured from the
ultimate right-of-way of the public or private street or easement from which
the property takes access. However, if the property is a flag lot, the front
setback shall be measured in accordance with division (F) below.
   (C)   Rear setbacks. The rear yard lot line is the lot line parallel to and
most distant from the front lot line. In cases where the rear lot line is not
clearly identifiable, an imaginary line shall be drawn for purposes of
determining required setbacks and for interpretation of other provisions of
this code. The imaginary line shall measure ten feet in length, be parallel to
and most distant from the front lot line and connect the two side lot lines. If
the Community Development Director determines that placement of the imaginary
rear lot line causes hardship or creates inconsistencies with adjoining
properties, the Director shall determine the rear yard setback.
   (D)   Side setbacks. All lot lines which are not front or rear lot lines
shall be considered side lot lines for the purpose of measuring setbacks.
   (E)   Pie-shaped lot setbacks. Setbacks for pie-shaped lots shall be
measured at the closest point between the building and angled lot line.
   (F)   Panhandle or flag lot setbacks.
      (1)   Definition. For purposes of this code, PANHANDLE LOT, FLAG LOT,
PANHANDLE BUILDING SITE and FLAG BUILDING SITE all mean the following: a lot
having its only vehicular access by way of a narrow accessway which serves no
other property and which is less than 40 feet wide and more than 20 feet long.
      (2)   Setbacks. All building setbacks shall be a minimum of ten feet
measured from property lines, except that the property line adjacent and most
perpendicular to the “panhandle” portion of the lot shall be extended across
that portion and serve as the basis for measuring setbacks in that area. No
structures shall be permitted in the panhandle portion of the lot nor shall
that portion be credited to minimum lot area requirements.
FIGURE 3.3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4319.jpg]
 
   (G)   Determination by Director. Where a building site is situated such that
the front, side or rear property lines are not readily determinable by
reference to the drawing at the right, required setbacks shall be as determined
by the Director in compliance with the following criterion: required setbacks
shall not permit the placement of buildings on the site in a manner that will
constitute a grant of special privileges inconsistent with the limitations
placed on other properties in the vicinity and incompatible with surrounding
uses.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-33.7) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
12, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-34 ILLUSTRATION OF DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS, DOES NOT INCLUDE SETBACKS FROM
SLOPES PER § 9-1-33.6.
FIGURE 3.4
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR RS DISTRICTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4321.jpg]
 
FIGURE 3.5
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: RP, RA AND RM DISTRICTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4323.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-34) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, § 13,
passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-35 SUPPLEMENTAL RESIDENTIAL REGULATIONS.
   All references to this §
9-1-35 shall include §§
9-1-35.1 through
9-1-35.26. These sections set forth requirements for accessory structures,
fences and walls, swimming pools and other special aspects of land use in
residential districts. These requirements are in addition to the other
regulations for residential uses set forth in this article and elsewhere in
this zoning code.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-35.1 PARKING AND SIGNS.
   Refer to Subchapter 2, Article 6 for parking regulations and Article 7 for
sign regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-35.2 FENCES AND WALLS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, FENCE or WALL means any type of
fence, wall, retaining wall, sound attenuation wall, screen, windscreen, hedge
or thick growth of shrubs or trees or any combination of these. A building wall
shall not be considered a FENCE or WALL for the purposes of this section. The
terms FENCE and WALL are used interchangeably in this section to mean any or
all of the preceding structures or vegetation.
      (2)   HEDGE or THICK GROWTH OF SHRUBS OR TREES means vegetation at least
42 inches high which creates a screen blocking at least 50% of the view through
the vegetation measured over a horizontal distance of five feet or greater.
Exception: retaining walls located on a slope that is ten feet in height or
over and has a grade of 2:1 or steeper are considered “unenclosed accessory
structures” and are subject to §
9-1-35.3.
   (B)   Measurement of fence height.
      (1)   Fence heights shall be measured from finish grade at the base of
the fence to the top on that side which results in the greatest height, except
as otherwise specified in this section.
      (2)   Fences separated by 30 inches or more (as measured between their
closest surfaces) shall be considered separate structures and their heights
shall be measured independently. Fences less than 30 inches apart shall be
considered one structure and fence height shall be measured from the base of
the lower fence to the top of the higher fence.
FIGURE 3.6
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4325.jpg]
 
   (C)   Fence height standards. The construction and installation offences
shall be in compliance with the following height and related standards.
      (1)   Railings on top of retaining walls. Open railings, up to 48 inches
high, placed on top of a retaining wall may extend beyond the permitted wall
height limit for the purpose of pedestrian safety, with approval of the
Community Development Director. Approval shall only be granted in cases where
pedestrian access is located adjacent to the wall and either the wall is
existing and cannot be modified, or, as a result of site constraints,
construction of the wall would result in the need for a railing which exceeds
the wall height limit. This provision shall apply only to areas where fences
are permitted over 42 inches in height.
      (2)   Architectural features. For all fences, architectural features,
such as pilasters, finials and similar features, may extend an additional six
inches above the maximum fence height; provided such features do not comprise
more than 10% of the horizontal length of the fence.
      (3)   Within side and rear setbacks. The maximum fence height shall be
six feet within any required rear or side setback area, except that where a
difference in grade exists between two properties, the following rules shall
apply.
         (a)   Fence height shall be determined independently for each
property.
         (b)   No fence adjacent to a property line shall exceed eight feet in
height as measured from the property on which it is located.
         (c)   No fence adjacent to a property line shall exceed six feet in
height as measured from any adjacent property or street.
      (4)   Within front setbacks.
         (a)   Maximum fence height shall be 42 inches if located within the
front setback. In front yards and portions of street side yards, fences, walls
and hedges have a stricter height limit to maintain an open street scene,
preserve the visibility of primary structures, enhance neighborhood character
and provide unobstructed views of traffic to and from driveways.
         (b)   Where, because of the orientation of the lots, a property line
fence separates a front yard on one lot from a rear yard on an adjacent lot,
the maximum fence height shall be six feet within the front setback area,
except as limited by division (C)(6) below.
         (c)   Any portion of a building site where vehicular access is taken
shall conform to the requirements of division (C)(6) below.
FIGURE 3.7
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4327.jpg]
 
      (5)   Within main building area. In the area of a lot where a main
building may be constructed, the maximum fence height shall be 12 feet. Higher
fences may be permitted if a minor adjustment is approved per division (D)
below.
      (6)   Required sight distances. In regulating fences, it is necessary to
provide open “corner cutback” areas in order to preserve motorist sight
distances. Therefore, notwithstanding other provisions of this section, maximum
fence height shall be 18 inches within the triangular area formed by drawing a
straight line as follows:
FIGURE 3.8
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4329.jpg]
 
         (a)   Between two points located on the property line and 25 feet
distant from the point of intersection of two ultimate street right-of-way
lines; and
         (b)   Within five feet from the intersection of an ultimate street or
alley right-of-way and the edge of a driveway or another alley right-of-way.
      (7)   Swimming pool fencing. Fences enclosing swimming pools shall
conform to the height requirements of this section and to the provisions of §
9-1-35.5.
      (8)   Sound attenuation walls. City- or state-required sound attenuation
walls bordering freeways or arterial highways may exceed six feet in height, if
approved by the Director.
      (9)   Prohibited fencing materials. Barbed wire and razor fences are
prohibited in all zones, except when such materials are needed to restrict
access to public utility requirements such as high voltage transformers. In
residential zones, chain link shall not be visible from the public right-of-
way.
   (D)   Increases in allowed height.
      (1)   Fences higher than the maximums set forth in this section may be
permitted if a minor adjustment is approved by the Director per §
9-1-114. In addition to the findings required for approval of all site
development permits, the following findings shall also be made in conjunction
with approval of a fence height increase:
         (a)   The height and location of the fence as proposed will not result
in or create a traffic hazard; and
         (b)   The location, size, design and other characteristics of the
fence will not result in a material adverse effect on adjacent residents or
their properties, including, but not limited to, any views available to such
residents prior to construction of the proposed “over-height” fence.
      (2)   Any application for a fence height increase may be referred by the
Director to the Planning Commission for action if the Director determines, on a
case-by-case basis, that the public interest would be better served by such
referral.
   (E)   Fences adjacent to scenic highways. Adjacent to a scenic highway (as
identified in the general plan) and along Niguel Road between Crown Valley
Parkway and Alicia Parkway, fences shall not be placed below the top of slopes
which have a slope ratio of 2:1 or steeper and measure over ten feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
14, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-35.3 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, ACCESSORY STRUCTURE shall
mean a building or structure, the use of which is subordinate and incidental to
the main building or use on the same parcel. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES may be either
attached to or detached from the main building and may be either enclosed or
unenclosed. ENCLOSED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are those which are roofed and
contained on all sides by walls pierced only by windows, vents or customary
entrances and exits. All other accessory structures shall be considered
“unenclosed”. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include, but are not limited to, open and
solid patio covers, gazebos, trellises, arbors, play equipment, decks, patios,
storage sheds, greenhouses and other similar structures. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES
do not include:
      (1)   Second-story balconies or decks as they are considered part of the
main dwelling;
      (2)   Fences and walls as they are covered under §
9-1-35.2; or
      (3)   Accessory dwelling units or junior accessory dwelling units as they
are covered under §
9-1-35.26.
   (B)   Applicability. Accessory structures over six feet in height and patios
and decks over 18 inches in height above finish grade are subject to the
provisions of this section, except that freestanding fences and walls shall be
regulated by §
9-1-35.2. Exception: this section does not apply to accessory dwelling units or
junior accessory dwelling units which are regulated by §
9-1-35.26.
FIGURE 3.9
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4331.jpg]
 
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   Accessory structures shall be located on the rear 50% of the
building site, except that minor unenclosed accessory structures, such as
arbors, trellises, porte-cocheres, gazebos and similar minor structures, may be
located in the front yard setback on the front 50% of the building site. The
distance between the front and rear property lines shall be the basis for
determining the rear 50% of the property.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall be located at least ten feet from any
property line bordering a street.
      (3)   Unenclosed accessory structures shall be located at least three
feet from any property line not bordering a street and enclosed accessory
structures shall be located at least five feet from any such property line.
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be located at least three feet from the
top or toe of any slope which has a grade of 2:1 or steeper and is over ten
feet in height.
   (D)   Height.
      (1)   Unenclosed accessory structures that meet the minimum setback
requirements for the main building are permitted up to 15 feet in height; for
unenclosed accessory structures that encroach into the primary building minimum
setbacks, structures shall not exceed 12 feet in height.
      (2)   Enclosed accessory structures shall not exceed ten feet in height
or 150 square feet in floor area.
FIGURE 3.10
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4333.jpg]
 
   (E)   Coverage. Enclosed accessory structures, whether attached or detached,
shall not cover more than 50% of the rear yard setback area.
   (F)   Adjustments.
      (1)   Modifications to the height, size and location standards of this
section may be permitted with approval of a minor adjustment processed in
accordance with §
9-1-114 (refer to §
9-1-33.6 for applicable slope setback adjustment provisions).
      (2)   In addition to the findings required for approval of all such
permits, approval of an accessory structure adjustment shall include the
following findings:
         (a)   The height, size or location of the accessory structure will not
be unsightly or incompatible with the character of or uses in the neighborhood;
and
         (b)   The height, size or location of the accessory structure will not
have negative visual impacts upon the street scene or obstruct views of traffic
to and from driveways.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.3) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2019-197, §
3, passed 6-4-2019; Ord. 2021-210, § 15, passed 8-3-2021; Ord. 2021-211, § 6,
passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-35.4 GARAGES, CARPORTS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Garage and carport placement. Garages and carports include attached or
detached structures having direct access to a street or alley. Carports shall
be permitted only upon approval of a minor adjustment per division (B) below.
Standards for the placement of garages and carports are set forth in Table 3.3
below.
      (1)   Except as otherwise specified, detached garages and carports shall
conform to the development standards for main buildings.
      (2)   Garages and carports shall not be located within any corner cutback
areas for fences as set forth in §
9-1-35.2.
TABLE 3.3: GARAGE/CARPORT DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
DEVELOPMENT STANDARD DISTRICT
                     RS-1 RS-2 RS-3 RS-4 RP RA RM
TABLE 3.3: GARAGE/CARPORT DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
DEVELOPMENT STANDARD                          DISTRICT
                                              RS-1 RS-2 RS-3 RS-4 RP RA    RM
Maximum structure height (feet)               35   35   35   35   *  35    35
Minimum driveway length 4                     20   20   20   20   *  20    20
Minimum driveway widths and maneuvering areas See §
                                              9-1-63
Minimum front yard setback (feet)             20   17 1 17 1 17 1 *  17    N/A
Minimum rear yard setback (feet)              25   25   15   10   *  10    N/A
Minimum setback from tops and toes of slopes
2:1 or steeper and over 10 feet in height     10   10   10   10   10 10    10
(feet)
Minimum side yard setback (feet) 2            8    8    5    5    *  0/5 3 N/A
* RP standards shall be as shown on approved precise plan for each project.
See Appendix A.
1 For side-entry type garages, the front setback may be reduced to 10 feet for
the garage portion only if a minor adjustment is approved. However, no living
space shall be permitted over such reduced-front setback garages.
2 Minimum side setback = 10 feet adjacent to streets.
3 For RA attached dwellings, 0 feet on attached side and 5 feet minimum on
open side.
4 Measured from back of sidewalk.
 
      (3)   Upon approval of a minor adjustment, the minimum front building
setback for a side-entry garage may be reduced to ten feet in all detached
Single-Family Residential Districts, except the RS-1 District. As shown in the
illustration, such side entry garages shall provide a minimum of 20 feet from
the garage opening to the sidewalk (or to the edge of street pavement if there
is no sidewalk). No living space shall be permitted over such reduced-front
setback garages.
FIGURE 3.11
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4335.jpg]
 
      (4)   When alleys, private streets or common driveways are provided
specifically as vehicular access to garages and carports and when separate
access and circulation systems are provided for pedestrians, guests and
emergency vehicles, garages and carports may be placed up to a minimum of five
feet from such alley, private street or common driveway.
   (B)   Carport standards. Carports shall be permitted only upon approval of a
minor adjustment and shall conform to the following additional standards.
      (1)   Carports shall be constructed of materials and colors comparable to
those of the main dwelling and/or garage.
      (2)   Carports shall be located on the side of garages and shall not be
located in front of (in-line with) garages.
      (3)   Carports shall not be designed for side-entry.
   (C)   Driveway standards. Residential driveways and maneuvering areas shall
be provided in accordance with §
9-1-63.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.4) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
16, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-35.5 SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND OTHER BODIES OF WATER.
   (A)   Swimming pools. The provisions of this division (A) shall apply to all
swimming pools. Swimming pools are permitted as accessory uses in residential
districts subject to the provisions of this division (A).
      (1)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, SWIMMING POOL means
an artificial body of water containing or normally capable of containing water
to a depth of 18 inches or more at any point, designed, constructed and used
for swimming, dipping or immersion purposes by humans. This includes, but is
not limited to, in-ground, above-ground and on-ground pools; hot tubs; portable
and non-portable spas; and fixed in-place wading pools.
      (2)   Location. Pools shall be located at least three feet (measured from
water’s edge) from any side or rear property line. In no case shall pools be
located where the fence height is restricted to less than six feet by the
provisions of §
9-1-35.2, unless within the panhandle portion of a panhandle lot, or on slopes
which are 2:1 or steeper and over ten feet in height.
FIGURE 3.12
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4337.jpg]
 
      (3)   Fencing and screening. All pools shall be fenced in accordance with
the provisions of the city’s building and safety code, state law and other
applicable ordinances. All pool equipment shall be screened from view from the
street.
      (4)   Adjustments. Swimming pools may be located within the front yard
setback with the approval of a minor adjustment per §
9-1-114 for the pool and the required fencing. In addition to the findings
required for approval, the findings for increases in allowed fence height (§
9-1-35.2(D)) must be made.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.5) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
17, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-35.6 SATELLITE DISH AND OTHER ANTENNAS.
   (A)   Accessory use. Antennas consistent with the design and location
provisions of this section are permitted as accessory structures within any
residential district.
   (B)   Permitted noncommercial antennas. Noncommercial privately-owned
television and/or radio antennas shall be contained entirely within a building,
except for satellite dish antennas, amateur radio antennas and other antennas
which cannot function when completely enclosed by a building. Outdoor antennas
shall comply with the following design standards and requirements, except for
radio amateur antennas regulated per division (C) below.
      (1)   Number. No more than one of the following shall be permitted per
residential lot: one television antenna or one satellite dish.
      (2)   Location.
         (a)   Except for dish antennas with diameters of one meter or less,
antennas shall be ground-mounted and shall not be visible from the street.
Permitted antennas may be located within the rear yard or an interior side yard
provided there is no encroachment into the required side yard setback. Antennas
are prohibited from exterior street side yards, unless not visible from the
street.
         (b)   Dish antennas with diameters of one meter or less may be ground-
mounted or building-mounted anywhere on a lot except within the required front
setback.
      (3)   Height and diameter. Satellite dish antennas shall not exceed eight
feet in height measured from the grade at the base of the antenna and shall be
no more than eight feet in diameter.
      (4)   Screening. Satellite dish antennas over one meter in diameter and
non-dish television antennas shall be screened from view, including views from
adjacent yards, by landscaping or decorative structures (trellis, arbor, fence
and the like). The dish antenna shall be a single color that blends with its
surroundings (e.g., dark green, brown, gray or black).
FIGURE 3.13
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4339.jpg]
 
      (5)   Disguised antennas. An antenna which has the appearance of typical
backyard furniture or equipment (e.g., satellite dish antenna manufactured to
have the appearance of a patio umbrella) is not required to comply with the
preceding location and screening standards but shall comply with height and
size limits. Such an antenna may be placed on a patio or deck.
   (C)   Amateur radio antennas. Antennas serving stations of noncommercial
privately-owned and federally-licensed or recognized amateur radio operators
shall comply with the following standards and requirements:
      (1)   Amateur radio antennas permitted without a use permit. The
following amateur radio antennas are permitted without approval of a use
permit:
         (a)   Antennas completely enclosed within a building;
         (b)   A single antenna consisting of a wire one-fourths inch in
diameter is permitted. Such wire antennas may be located in setback areas;
provided the antenna does not extend above the top of the roof of the primary
residence on the site; and
         (c)   1.   A single vertical pole or whip antenna not exceeding 42
feet in height, measured from finish grade at the base of the antenna, and not
located in any required side, rear or front yard, is permitted. Such antennas
shall not be located in front of a residence or on the side of a residence
facing a roadway.
            2.   Guy wires and supports for such antennas shall conform to the
following.
               a.   Guy wires shall have a maximum outside diameter of one-
eighths of an inch and shall be a neutral color. A maximum of four guy wires
mounted at a height of up to 30 feet may be installed. Guy wires shall not be
located in required side yard setbacks or within five feet of the rear property
line.
               b.   Support structures or masts for pole or whip antennas shall
conform to standards set forth in the adopted 2025 California Building Code and
related codes. A building permit may be required for the support structure or
mast.
      (2)   Amateur radio antennas permitted with a use permit. Outdoor amateur
radio antennas, other than those listed in division (C)(1) above, may be
permitted if a use permit is approved. The following factors and findings shall
be considered in the review of such use permits.
         (a)   Factors to be considered. The decision-making authority shall
consider the following factors in reviewing use permit applications:
            1.   The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) requires that
local regulations provide reasonable accommodation for amateur radio
communications;
            2.   The city desires to allow amateur radio antennas in a manner
that reasonably accommodates amateur radio communications, while minimizing
potential impacts on neighboring properties;
            3.   The proposed height and design of the amateur radio station
antenna, and the technological necessity of that height and design to engage in
amateur radio service operations of the nature contemplated;
            4.   The proximity of the proposed amateur radio station antenna to
inhabited buildings and structures;
            5.   The nature of existing uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
            6.   The surrounding topography and landscaping, including trees
and other foliage, and their effect on the proposed height and design of the
amateur radio station antenna; and
            7.   The design of the proposed amateur radio station antenna, with
particular reference to design features that provide for retraction of the
antenna when not in use and design features that may reduce or eliminate visual
obtrusiveness, particularly in residential zones.
         (b)   Required findings. In addition to the standard findings required
for approval of a use permit, the decision-making authority shall make the
following findings for approval of use permits for amateur radio antennas:
            1.   The height, design and configuration of the proposed antenna
is technologically necessary to engage in amateur radio communications of the
nature contemplated;
            2.   Topographic or other constraints limit the feasibility of
engaging in amateur radio communications with antennas permitted under division
(C)(1) above;
            3.   The installation of the antenna is necessary to reasonably
accommodate amateur radio communications; and
            4.   The placement and design of the antenna minimizes potential
visual impacts on surrounding property owners to the extent possible while
reasonably accommodating amateur radio communications.
   (D)   No preemption of private covenants. No provision contained in this
section shall preempt or void any more restrictive private covenant regulating
outdoor antennas.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.6) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
18, passed 8-3-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Applicable related codes, see §
8-1-12
§ 9-1-35.7 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2021-211, § 3, adopted 8-3-2021, repealed § 9-1-35.7, which pertained
to second residential units and derived from Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999;
Ord. 2004-134, § 3.B, passed 2-17-2004.
§ 9-1-35.8 GUEST HOUSES.
   (A)   Purpose. This section provides standards and criteria for the
establishment of guest houses within residential districts.
   (B)   Definition. For the purposes of this code, GUEST HOUSE means an
attached or detached dwelling unit which has sanitary facilities, but no
cooking facilities, and which is used primarily for sleeping purposes by
members of the family occupying the main residence and their non-paying guests
or domestic employees.
   (C)   Limitations. Only one guest house may be established on any lot in
addition to the primary residence.
   (D)   Where permitted. A guest house may be constructed as an accessory use
in the RS-1, RS-2, RS-3 and RS-4 Districts subject to conformance with the
standards of this section.
   (E)   Guest house standards. All guest houses shall conform to the following
standards.
      (1)   Guest houses shall conform to all applicable building code
standards and all development and design standards of the zoning district in
which they are located. In addition, the height of the guest house shall not
exceed the height of the primary residence.
      (2)   Guest houses shall be architecturally compatible with the primary
residence.
      (3)   The floor area of a guest house shall not exceed 640 square feet.
      (4)   Guest houses may contain independent access and sanitation
facilities.
      (5)   Guest houses shall not contain cooking facilities separate from the
primary residence.
      (6)   A guest house shall be used only by the occupants of the primary
residence, their non-paying guests or domestic employees. The guest house shall
not be rented or otherwise occupied separately from the primary residence.
      (7)   A minimum of one additional enclosed or unenclosed off-street
parking space shall be provided for the guest house. (See §
9-1-63 for residential parking space design standards.) Tandem parking spaces
shall not be credited toward meeting this requirement and no variance or other
deviation shall be granted to allow substandard parking spaces or locations.
      (8)   A deed restriction shall be required for recordation against the
property to prohibit the use or conversion of the guest house to a rental unit
or to a unit for sale.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.8) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2004-134, §
3.C, passed 2-17-2004)
§ 9-1-35.9 GARAGE SALES.
   (A)   Definition. GARAGE SALES include the display of household goods for
sale in the garage and/or driveway of a single dwelling unit. This section also
applies to neighborhood or community garage sales.
   (B)   Standards. Garage sales shall be permitted as temporary accessory uses
in residential districts subject to the following regulations.
      (1)   Garage sales may be conducted a maximum of eight days per calendar
year per residence.
      (2)   The hours of the sale shall be no earlier than 7:00 a.m. to no
later than 8:00 p.m.
      (3)   No item for sale shall obstruct the public right-of-way or any
sidewalk, street, parkway or driveway.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any person to exchange, barter, trade or sell
any of the following at a garage sale: firearms, ammunition, explosives,
animals and livestock; any item of personal property from which the serial
number has been removed; or any other item prohibited by city, county, state or
federal law.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.9) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
19, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-35.10 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The regulations set forth in this section are provided so
that certain incidental and accessory uses may be established in residential
neighborhoods under conditions that will ensure their compatibility with the
neighborhood.
   (B)   Exemption for domestic employees. This section shall not apply to
employees providing domestic help for the household, such as childcare,
gardening, cooking, cleaning, medical, disability or other personal assistance,
or similar duties.
   (C)   Permit required. Establishment and conduct of a home occupation shall
require approval of a home occupation permit processed in accordance with §
9-1-114. An application to conduct a home occupation shall be submitted to the
Community Development Department, together with a fee established by the City
Council for this permit. Information shall be provided to ensure that the
proposed home occupation complies with the requirements of this section.
Additional information necessary to make the findings required for approval may
be required by the director.
   (D)   Approval of permit. The Director shall approve an application for a
home occupation permit for a home occupation if the Director finds the permit
application consistent with the performance and development standards listed in
division (E) below.
   (E)   Standards. In addition to the requirements for each residential
district, the following performance and development standards shall apply to
the establishment and operation of home occupations in any district in which
they are permitted.
      (1)   The establishment and conduct of a home occupation shall be an
incidental and accessory use and shall not change the principal character or
use of the dwelling unit involved.
      (2)   Only residents of the dwelling unit may be engaged in the home
occupation.
      (3)   A home occupation shall be conducted only within the enclosed
living area of the dwelling unit or within the garage; provided the home
occupation does not limit or prevent the use of the garage for required off-
street parking. The home occupation shall not occupy more than 25% of the
combined floor area of the house and garage.
      (4)   A home occupation shall not be conducted within a detached
accessory structure, although materials may be stored in such a structure.
      (5)   There shall be no signs, outdoor storage, parked customer vehicles
or other exterior evidence of the conduct of the home occupation. Neither the
dwelling nor the lot shall be altered in appearance so that it appears other
than a residence, either by color, materials, construction, lighting, sounds,
vibrations or other characteristics.
      (6)   Electrical or mechanical equipment which creates interference in
radio, television or telephone receivers or causes fluctuations in line voltage
outside the dwelling unit shall be prohibited. Also, the home occupation shall
not cause increased use of utilities or communication facilities beyond that
normal to the use of the property for residential purposes.
      (7)   The home occupation shall not include the storage of hazardous
materials, nor shall it create dust, noise, glare or odors in excess of that
normally associated with residential use.
      (8)   No sales activity shall be conducted from the dwelling except for
mail order sales. The dwelling unit shall not be the point of customer pickup
or delivery of products or services, nor shall a home occupation create greater
vehicular or pedestrian traffic than normal for the district in which it is
located.
      (9)   The following uses are prohibited as home occupations:
         (a)   Medical, dental or similar occupations in which patients are
seen in the home;
         (b)   Automotive repair or other automobile service or sales uses;
         (c)   Junkyards;
         (d)   Cleaning of major equipment;
         (e)   Food processing (excluding cottage food operations consistent
with state law);
         (f)   Barber or beauty shops;
         (g)   Carpentry or cabinet making;
         (h)   Welding; and
         (i)   Other occupations which do not meet the standards of this
section.
      (10)   All conditions of approval attached to the home occupation permit
shall be fully complied with at all times.
      (11)   Home occupations which provide instructional services to a limited
number of students may be permitted, if a minor use permit is approved.
   (F)   Revocation or suspension of permit. The Director may revoke or suspend
any permit for a home occupation if the Director determines that any of the
performance and development standards listed in division (D) above have been or
are being violated, that the occupation authorized by the permit is or has been
conducted in violation of any state statute or city law or that the home
occupation has changed or is different from that authorized when the permit was
issued.
   (G)   Permit nontransferable. No permit issued for a home occupation shall
be transferred or assigned, nor shall the permit authorize any person other
than that named in the permit, to commence or carry on the home occupation for
which the permit was issued.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.10) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
20, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-35.11 ANIMALS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section regulates the keeping of animals within
residential districts.
   (B)   Household pets. Household pets shall be regulated pursuant to Title 10
of the municipal code, pertaining to animals.
   (C)   Horses.
      (1)   Horses are permitted in the RS-1 District as an accessory use and
are permitted in the RS-2 District east of Street of the Golden Lantern, and
the RP District on lots at least four acres in size, subject to approval of a
use permit in accordance with §
9-1-114.
      (2)   The following standards shall apply to the keeping of horses.
         (a)   All pens, corrals, stables, barns and other structures
specifically for keeping horses overnight shall not encroach into the required
setbacks for the main building and shall be located at least 75 feet from the
buildable portion (main building envelope) of an adjoining lot.
         (b)   Pastures, arenas or any other areas for horses, which are not
used to keep horses overnight, may extend to the property line.
   (D)   Other animals. The types, number and manner in which pets and animals
are kept shall be regulated, pursuant to Title 10 of the municipal code,
pertaining to animals.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.11) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
21, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-35.12 SCREENING.
   All projects within the RM District shall conform to the nonresidential
screening requirements of §
9-1-45.4.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.12) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-35.13 LANDSCAPING AND OPEN AREA.
   (A)   Landscaping in the front yard setback of single-family zones. In order
to maintain attractive front yards, all setback areas visible from a public
street, with the exception of the minimum areas necessary for entry sidewalks,
decorative hardscape and parking (including required parking spaces and
associated driveways) shall have a surface that remains permeable and is to be
landscaped and permanently maintained.
   (B)   RM and RP zoning district requirements.
      (1)   Open area requirement. All projects within the RM and RP districts
shall include common open area equal to at least 25%of the buildable project
area. For purposes of this section, BUILDABLE PROJECT AREA means the horizontal
area within the boundaries of a development project, less slope areas with a
ratio of 2:1 or steeper and less perimeter rights of-way and easements and
areas set aside for public schools, parks and other public uses.
      (2)   Open area standards. Required common open area shall consist of
passive landscaped and active recreation areas established and maintained in
accordance with the following standards.
         (a)   Excluded areas. Rights-of-way, parking areas, private patios,
private yards and slopes steeper than 20% shall not be credited toward the
common open area requirement.
         (b)   Passive landscaped area.
            1.   Design guidelines. This section sets forth basic landscaping
requirements. In addition, Article 9 of Subchapter 2 contains landscaping
standards and guidelines relating to project entry landscaping, pedestrian area
landscaping, tree preservation, plant selection and other items.
            2.   Landscaping standards. A landscape plan shall be prepared,
approved and implemented for all projects through the landscape review process.
Landscaping consisting of trees, shrubs, vines, groundcover, water features or
any combination thereof shall be installed and maintained in accordance with
the following standards.
               a.   Height of landscaping along all streets and boundaries
shall comply with §
9-1-35.2.
               b.   Boundary landscaping abutting arterial highways shall be
required to an average depth of 15 feet with a minimum depth often feet,
measured from the street right-of-way. However, along arterial highways
designated as Scenic Highways in the general plan (i.e., Crown Valley Parkway,
Alicia Parkway, La Paz Road, Moulton Parkway, Street of the Golden Lantern,
Pacific Island Drive, Camino del Avian and Niguel Road south of Crown Valley
Parkway), plus Niguel Road north of Crown Valley Parkway, landscaping shall be
provided to a minimum depth of 25 feet at all points, measured from the curb.
               c.   Boundary landscaping abutting public streets other than
arterial highways shall be required to an average depth of ten feet with a
minimum depth of five feet, measured from the street right-of-way.
               d.   All landscaped areas shall be separated from adjacent
parking or vehicular areas by a curb or other barrier at least six inches
higher than the parking or vehicular area to prevent vehicular damage to the
landscaped area.
               e.   Permanent automatic irrigation facilities shall be provided
for all landscaped areas. All irrigation systems shall be maintained in proper
operating condition. Waterline breaks, head/emitter ruptures, overspray or
runoff conditions and other irrigation system failures shall be repaired
immediately.
               f.   All landscaping shall be maintained in an orderly,
attractive and healthy condition, including proper pruning, mowing of lawns,
weeding, removal of litter, fertilizing, replacement of plants (including
trees) when necessary and the regular application of appropriate quantities of
water to all landscaped areas.
               g.   Modification to an approved landscape plan, or any
significant modification to existing landscaped areas, removal or substantial
thinning of landscaping, shall first require the review and approval of a
changed plan permit or a discretionary permit amendment as determined by the
Community Development Director.
FIGURE 3.14
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4341.jpg]
 
      (3)   Active recreation area requirement.
         (a)   Minimum area. At least 10% of the buildable project area shall
be devoted to active recreational uses. This may be part of the required
project common open area.
         (b)   Size and slope standards. Active recreation area shall be at
least 15 feet wide and 300 square feet in area, with slopes no greater than 5%.
         (c)   Recreation facilities. Facilities may include swimming pools,
spas and related facilities; clubhouses; tot lots with play equipment; court
game facilities, such as tennis, basketball or racquetball; improved softball
or other playfields; or similar facilities for active recreational use.
FIGURE 3.15
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4343.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.13) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
22, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-35.14 TENNIS AND OTHER GAME COURTS.
   (A)   Permits required. Construction of tennis and other permanent game
court facilities, including fencing, may be permitted subject to a finding by
the Director that the standards set forth in this section have been satisfied.
All lighted tennis and other game courts shall require approval of a use permit
by the Planning Commission processed in accordance with §
9-1-114.
   (B)   Hours of use. No tennis or game court shall be used before 7:00 a.m.
or after 10:00 p.m.
   (C)   Unlighted tennis courts. Unlighted tennis courts shall meet the
following development standards.
      (1)   Fences. A maximum 12-foot high fence (measured from the finished
grade of the court) shall be allowed. Fences may be covered with a dark non-
reflective screening material.
      (2)   Setbacks. Tennis courts shall maintain setbacks equal to the
setbacks for the main building for the applicable zoning district, as defined
in §
9-1-33, except that side yard setbacks shall be ten feet in all zoning
districts.
      (3)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be installed and maintained between
the court fence and property line. A landscape plan shall be submitted,
reviewed and approved by the city landscape architect, and implemented at the
same time as court construction.
   (D)   Other unlighted game courts.
      (1)   Other game courts include permanent facilities used in conjunction
with a particular recreational activity, such as basketball, badminton and
other sports.
      (2)   Setbacks for such unlighted game courts shall be:
         (a)   1.   Front yard: 20 feet;
            2.   Side yard: 10 feet; and
            3.   Rear yard: 10 feet.
         (b)   1.   A maximum 12-foot high fence (measured from the finished
grade of the court) shall be allowed; provided the fence maintains the setbacks
for the main building for the applicable zoning district, as defined in §
9-1-33.
            2.   Exception: one, unlighted, basketball standard, including
backboard and rim, shall be permitted in the front yard; provided a setback of
five feet is maintained from the front property line.
   (E)   Lighted tennis and game courts.
      (1)   Lighted tennis and game courts shall require approval of a use
permit.
      (2)   Such lighted courts shall conform to the preceding standards for
unlighted courts and shall also meet the following standards.
         (a)   Lighting design.
            1.   A maximum of eight lights (i.e., eight individual light
sources) are permitted, with mounting height not to exceed 22 feet.
            2.   Prior to issuance of a building permit, all lights and
lighting fixtures shall be certified by a qualified lighting engineer to be
designed, constructed and mounted such that:
               a.   The light source and direct rays are not visible from any
point five feet above grade at the lot line; and
               b.   The light sources and the tennis or game court is at least
30 feet from the buildable portion of the adjacent lot(s) and the maximum
intensity of illumination attributable to the tennis or game court lighting
measured at the closest point of the buildable portion of the adjacent lot(s)
does not exceed 0.2 footcandle more than ambient light conditions.
FIGURE 3.16
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4345.jpg]
 
         (b)   Glare. The surface area of any game court shall be designed,
painted, colored and/or textured to reduce the reflection from any light
source.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.14) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
23, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-35.15 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is intended to provide standards for outdoor
lighting which allows adequate lighting for public safety while minimizing the
adverse effects of excessive lighting on neighbors and the community.
   (B)   Outdoor game courts. Any lighted outdoor recreation use shall be
subject to the provisions of §
9-1-35.14 for lighted game courts.
   (C)   Residential lighting requirements. All properties zoned for
residential use shall be subject to the outdoor lighting standards of this
section. The regulations apply to both security and purely decorative lighting.
Outdoor lighting which complies with these standards shall be permitted as an
accessory use while deviation from the standards shall require approval of a
minor adjustment permit.
   (D)   Intensity and design. Exterior lighting shall be shielded or recessed
so that direct glare and reflections are contained within the boundaries of the
parcel, and shall be directed downward and away from adjoining properties and
public rights-of-way. No lighting shall be of unusually high intensity or
brightness. All lighting fixtures shall be appropriate in scale, intensity and
height to the use.
   (E)   Height. Building-mounted lights shall be installed below the eave
line. Pole or fence-mounted lights shall be located no more than eight feet
above grade, except in residential parking lots.
   (F)   Location. Lighting shall only be installed adjacent to buildings,
walkways, driveways or activity areas (decks, patios, spas and pools and
similar use areas) and focal landscape areas close to the residence or activity
area.
   (G)   Residential parking lots. The lighting intensity within parking lots
and adjacent areas shall conform to the standards of Subchapter 2, Article 9;
that is, lighting intensity shall be at least 1.0 footcandle at all points, but
shall not exceed an average of 3.0 footcandles over the entire parking lot.
Overall height of light standards shall be no more than 22 feet above finish
grade.
   (H)   Common area lighting. For all new residential developments, lighting
plans (including photometric analysis) may be required for common recreational
areas and pedestrian walkways within common open space. Outdoor lighting in
these areas should be the minimum needed to ensure safety and security so that
impacts on surrounding residential areas are minimized. The Director may
require lighting plans for existing developments should concerns arise about
the health, safety or welfare for residents of the area.
   (I)   Holiday and decorative lighting. Lighting and decorations with lights
which are related to a specific holiday period shall be permitted in
residential districts. Decorative lighting not associated with a holiday period
shall not be the type that flashes, blinks, moves or otherwise draws attention.
   (J)   Enforcement. If the Director determines through complaints received
and/or site visits that any outdoor lighting may not be designed consistent
with the provisions of this section and may cause an adverse impact on
neighboring properties, the Director may require a photometric analysis by a
licensed engineer to allow continued use of the lighting.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.15) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
24, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-35.16 SPECIAL OUTDOOR EVENTS.
   (A)   Definition. Within residential districts, SPECIAL OUTDOOR EVENTS may
include, but are not limited to, pageants, fairs, carnivals, religious or
entertainment events, block parties and neighborhood or community gatherings.
   (B)   Requirements. Special outdoor events are permitted in all residential
districts provided the following requirements are met.
      (1)   Approval of a temporary use permit shall be required for all
special outdoor events.
      (2)   Activities conducted on property owned by or leased to the city or
on public rights-of-way may require an encroachment permit issued by the Public
Works Director.
      (3)   The event may be permitted for a period not to exceed ten
consecutive days. Events conducted more than four times in a calendar year are
not considered temporary and shall not be eligible for a temporary use permit.
      (4)   A cash bond or other guarantee may be required to be posted with
the city to ensure removal of the temporary use and cleanup and restoration of
the activity site within seven days of the conclusion of the event.
      (5)   Applications for permits or certificates required by this section
shall be referred by the Community Development Department to other affected
departments, cities or public agencies as may be appropriate for review and
comment.
      (6)   Related issues, including, but not limited to, police and security,
food and water supply, use of tents and canopies, sanitation facilities,
medical services, noise, signage, fire protection and traffic control, shall be
satisfactorily addressed by the applicant, as required by the Director,
Sheriff, Fire Chief or health officer in their administration of other city
codes. Such other codes may require the applicant to obtain permits such as
building, electrical, health, tent and other permits.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.16) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
25, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-35.17 MANUFACTURED HOUSING AND MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this zoning code, the terms
MANUFACTURED HOME and MOBILE HOME shall mean the same thing (i.e., a
residential building transportable in one or more sections which has been
certified under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Act of 1974). For purposes of simplicity, the term mobile home is
used in this section.
   (B)   Where permitted. Mobile homes may be permitted on single-family lots
within the RS-1, RS-2, RS-3 and RS-4 Districts as permanent or temporary
residences, subject to the requirements of this section and provided the mobile
home is certified under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and
Safety Standards Act of 1974 and meets the requirements of the Manufactured
Housing Act of 1980 (California Health and Safety Code for Manufactured
Housing, § 18000).
   (C)   Permanent mobile home residence. Each mobile home installed as a
permanent residence on a single-family lot shall comply with the following
standards.
      (1)   District standards. The mobile home shall conform to all setback,
height and other standards of the district in which it is located.
      (2)   Foundation. The mobile home shall be placed on a solid concrete
slab foundation.
      (3)   Exterior siding. The exterior siding shall be wood or other
material customarily used in conventionally built single-family dwellings.
      (4)   Roofs. Roofs shall be constructed of fire-retardant composition
shingles or tile. Roof pitch shall be similar to those of roofs of the same
material on conventionally-built single-family dwellings in the neighborhood,
but in no case less than a ratio of 3:12.
      (5)   Roof overhangs. Roofs shall have eave and gable-end overhangs of
not less than 12 inches, measured perpendicularly from the exterior wall.
      (6)   Garages. Permanent mobile homes shall have garages with the same
minimum dimensions and number of parking spaces as required for single-family
homes in §
9-1-63.
   (D)   Temporary mobile home residence during construction. A mobile home,
motor home or travel trailer may be permitted as a temporary residence during
the construction of an owner-built (custom) house within the RS-1, RS-2, RS-
3 and RS-4 Districts, subject to approval of a temporary use permit and the
following standards.
      (1)   Time limitations. A temporary mobile home may be located on the
same lot as a permanent residence under construction. The temporary mobile home
may be maintained on the lot for a maximum of one year or until issuance of a
certificate of use and occupancy for the permanent residence, whichever occurs
first. During that time, the mobile home may be occupied only by the owner of
the subject lot and the owner’s immediate family. The mobile home shall be
removed from the site on or before a date one year after its placement on the
lot regardless of whether the permanent residence is completed.
      (2)   Setbacks. The mobile home shall be set back a minimum ten feet from
all property lines.
      (3)   Utility and health requirements. Temporary mobile homes shall meet
all Health Department standards for a permanent residence and shall be
connected to electric, water and sewer services in accordance with city and
utility company standards.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.17) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
26, 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-35.18 CHILD DAYCARE HOMES.
   (A)   Purpose. The use of a residence as a small family daycare home or
large family daycare home shall be considered a residential use of property
under this subchapter and shall be permitted in a legal dwelling unit in any
residential district. The purpose of this section is to provide standards for
the establishment and operation of child daycare homes within residential
districts. These standards are intended to be consistent with California Health
and Safety Code, Division 2, Chapters 3.4 and 3.6 and shall be so construed.
   (B)   Small family daycare homes.
      (1)   Small family daycare homes are permitted in all residential
districts. Small family daycare homes shall provide care for six or fewer
children.
      (2)   However, such small family daycare homes may provide care for more
than six and up to and including eight children, without an additional adult
attendant, if all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   At least one child is enrolled in and attending kindergarten or
elementary school and a second child is at least six years of age;
         (b)   No more than two infants are cared for during any time when more
than six children are cared for;
         (c)   The licensee notifies each parent that the facility is caring
for two additional school age children and that there may be up to seven or
eight children in the home at one time; and
         (d)   The licensee obtains the written consent of the property owner
when the family daycare home is operated on property that is leased or rented.
   (C)   Large family daycare homes.
      (1)   Family daycare homes are permitted in all residential districts.
Large family daycare homes may provide care for seven to 12 children.
      (2)   However, such large family daycare homes may provide care for up to
and including 14 children if all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   At least one child is enrolled in and attending kindergarten or
elementary school and a second child is at least six years of age;
         (b)   No more than three infants are cared for during any time when
more than 12 children are cared for;
         (c)   The licensee notifies each parent that the facility is caring
for two additional school age children and that there may be up to 13 or 14
children in the home at one time; and
         (d)   The licensee obtains the written consent of the property owner
when the family daycare home is operated on property that is leased or rented.
   (D)   Standards for family daycare homes. Family daycare homes shall conform
to the following requirements.
      (1)   All facilities shall be operated and maintained in accordance with
state and local health, safety and other regulations.
      (2)   All parking and outdoor lighting shall comply with the applicable
regulations set forth in §§
9-1-63 and
9-1-35.15, respectively.
      (3)   All facilities shall comply with the development standards of the
residential district in which they are located, as set forth in §
9-1-33.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.18) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
27, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-35.19 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2021-210, § 28, adopted 8-3-2021, repealed § 9-1-35.19, which pertained
to residential care facilities and derived from Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-
1999.
§ 9-1-35.20 TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION AND GUARD OFFICES.
   Construction offices, security quarters, storage yards, large containers,
temporary fencing and similar structures on the site of an active construction
project may be conditionally permitted with a temporary use permit, subject to
the following regulations.
   (A)   The temporary structure shall not be moved onto the site nor otherwise
established until issuance of a precise grading permit or, if there is no
grading permit, issuance of a building permit.
   (B)   Any temporary structure shall be removed from the site prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the last new building on the site.
If the associated project is for grading only, the office shall be removed
within 30 days of expiration of the grading permit.
   (C)   Any permanent structure or portion of a permanent structure devoted to
temporary use as a construction or guard office shall be converted to a
permanent permitted use prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for
the last new building on the site.
   (D)   The office shall be supplied with an electric meter and sewer and
water facilities.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.20) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
29, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-35.21 RELOCATABLE BUILDINGS.
   A relocatable building or trailer may be permitted as a temporary structure
for any permitted nonresidential and noncommercial use in any residential
district, subject to the approval of a temporary use permit processed in
accordance with §
9-1-114 and the following additional provisions.
   (A)   The temporary use permit application shall include the following:
      (1)   A description of the proposed uses and operating characteristics
for all uses on the site, both temporary and permanent;
      (2)   A plot plan showing the location of all uses and structures, both
temporary and permanent; and
      (3)   Supplementary exhibits, as required by the Director to adequately
review the proposal, such as building elevations, landscaping, grading, access
and utility service.
   (B)   A temporary use permit for a relocatable building or trailer may be
conditionally approved. Failure to comply with the required conditions shall be
grounds for the revocation of the permit.
   (C)   A cash bond of an amount as established by resolution of the City
Council per each relocatable building or trailer shall be posted with the
Director to guarantee removal of each from the site upon expiration of the
temporary use permit.
   (D)   A temporary use permit for a relocatable building or trailer shall be
approved for a maximum of one year from the date of approval.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.21) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-35.22 TRASH AND RECYCLABLE MATERIALS STORAGE.
   All townhome, condominium and apartment projects shall conform to the
nonresidential trash and recyclable materials storage requirements of §
9-1-45.19.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.22) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-35.23 NOISE CONTROL.
   Noise in residential districts shall be regulated by the city’s noise
control ordinance (Title 6, Chapter 6), which provides noise control standards
for all districts in the city in order to prevent excessive sound levels which
are detrimental to the public health, welfare and safety, or which are contrary
to the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.23) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-35.24 MODEL HOME COMPLEXES.
   (A)   Model home complexes and sales offices. Temporary model home
complexes, real estate sales offices and related signage may be established if
a temporary use permit is approved in accordance with §
9-1-114 and the following requirements are satisfied:
      (1)   The complex is used solely for the first sale of homes or the first
rental of apartments in projects of 20 or more units;
      (2)   The complex is located within the area of the project for which it
is established. The temporary office shall not be located within 50 feet of an
existing dwelling unit which is not a part of the new project;
      (3)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this code, the parcel of land
on which a temporary real estate office is established is not required to be a
building site provided the parcel is precisely described; and
      (4)   The following structures and facilities are permitted in
conjunction with the establishment of a temporary real estate office in
conformance with an approved temporary use permit:
         (a)   Model homes in compliance with the zoning regulations applicable
to the properties that are being sold;
         (b)   Garages, attached and detached, in compliance with the zoning
regulations applicable to the properties that are being sold;
         (c)   Temporary sales office buildings or relocatable buildings;
         (d)   Accessory buildings and structures in compliance with the zoning
regulations applicable to the properties that are being sold;
         (e)   Recreational facilities that will become a permanent portion of
the project in compliance with the zoning regulations applicable to the
properties that are being sold;
         (f)   Permanent streets and driveways that will be part of the project
after the closure of the real estate office use;
         (g)   Temporary children’s playgrounds;
         (h)   Temporary and permanent fencing, walks and structural amenities;
         (i)   Temporary vehicle parking and maneuvering areas to provide off-
street parking as necessary for employees and guests; and
         (j)   Temporary vehicular accessways.
   (B)   Requirements for approval.
      (1)   Any approving action shall include those conditions and
requirements deemed by the decision-making authority to be necessary or
advisable to protect the public safety and the general welfare, together with
adequate guarantees that the structures and facilities will be removed or made
consistent with applicable zoning regulations within 90 days after the
expiration of the permit.
      (2)   In addition to those findings required for the approval of an
application, any approving action for a temporary real estate office shall also
include the following findings:
         (a)   The access, parking and circulation facilities will not result
in excess traffic congestion or traffic safety hazards; and
         (b)   The operation of the real estate office and associated
activities will not conflict with adjacent and nearby residential uses.
   (C)   Time limitations. A temporary use permit for a real estate office may
be approved for a maximum time period of two years from the date of approval.
   (D)   Signs and flags. Signs and flags in connection with a temporary real
estate office shall be permitted within a tract on the following conditions.
      (1)   The sign copy shall be limited to matters relating to the project
within which the signs are located.
      (2)   Such signs shall have a time limit of existence concurrent with the
use of the permitted temporary offices.
      (3)   Temporary project identification signs up to 64 square feet in area
and ten feet in height are permitted at each street entrance, subject to the
provisions of §
9-1-74.
      (4)   Additional signage exclusive of that permitted under division (D)
(3) above may be permitted, but shall not exceed a total of 100 square feet in
area nor shall any sign exceed ten feet in height.
      (5)   The number of flags permitted shall be two for the overall complex
plus two per each model home, not to exceed a total of eight flags per model
complex.
      (6)   The following advertising devices or activities are expressly
prohibited within or outside the project: banners, balloons, portable trailer
signs or human indicators, except as specifically approved in a temporary use
permit and in compliance with §
9-1-74.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.24) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-35.25 GATE-GUARDED NEIGHBORHOODS.
   (A)   Application for approval. A gate-guarded neighborhood for new or
existing residential development areas may be established with the approval of
a site development permit.
   (B)   Required information for neighborhood plan.
      (1)   In addition to the required submittal items for a site development
permit, any person or entity desiring a gate-guarded neighborhood shall submit
a detailed gate-guarded neighborhood plan.
      (2)   The neighborhood plan shall include the following:
         (a)   Evidence of identifiable area to be served. A proposed gate-
guarded neighborhood submitted pursuant to this section shall present evidence
demonstrating that the control gates will serve a well-defined neighborhood.
         (b)   Evidence of neighborhood support.
            1.   Survey. The plan shall include a survey evidencing majority
support for the concept. As a minimum, signatures of 51% of the owners of
property within the neighborhood establishing written support for the plan
shall be utilized by the city in determining whether there is majority support
for the plan, with each buildable lot or dwelling unit to be tabulated as one
vote. This criterion shall not apply to new development, with the exception of
those developments under construction for which 25% or more of the units have
been sold.
            2.   Impact report. After receipt of the survey, city staff shall
prepare a report which outlines all potential impacts of the action should it
be implemented. The report shall also identify the city’s current interest in
any rights-of-way, easements or other property within the proposed gate-guarded
neighborhood which would be vacated or otherwise affected by the approval and
designate any such interest which is proposed to be transferred to the
homeowners, either to an association or to individuals. If there is any
question as to the city’s ownership or interest in such facilities, the
Director may require the applicant to provide a title report on the property in
question.
            3.   Petition. The report prepared by city staff shall be
circulated as a petition to all owners of record within the impacted
neighborhood. The resultant tabulation of the petitions in support of the issue
must total at least 75% of all of the property owners, with each buildable lot
or dwelling unit to be tabulated as one vote.
            4.   Utility/public facility coordination. The plan shall show the
layout of adjacent utility and/or public facilities. Any facilities which are
in conflict with the proposed gate system shall be relocated at the applicant’s
expense to locations approved by the affected utility and/or other public
agency. The gate design, including the setback of all gates, shall be approved
by the Public Works Director.
            5.   Financial plan. The plan shall include a financial analysis
establishing that the gate-guarded facility shall be adequately maintained on a
permanent basis. The financial plan shall also address maintenance funding for
public facilities to be transferred to the homeowners (e.g., streets,
sidewalks, curb and gutter, local drainage facilities and the like).
            6.   Access by contract services. The applicant submitting the plan
shall contact all contract services, i.e., trash pickup and street cleaning,
and provide assurance of access to the gated community to allow for continued
service.
   (C)   Design and access standards. Plans for establishment of a gate-guarded
neighborhood shall incorporate the following design and access standards.
      (1)   Key system for gates. The plan shall provide for the installation
of a master key override switch system as prescribed by the city for emergency
access or other public access. Keys shall be provided to the city in the event
of approval. If the gate operates by way of a telephone system, a ring-through
feature shall be provided in order that cars waiting at the gate entrance will
not cause waiting or queuing problems should a telephone line be in use, or a
pull-out area outside of traffic lanes shall be provided to allow telephoning
without blocking access.
      (2)   Gate setback. The setback of all gates shall be approved by the
Public Works Director. The setback shall be evaluated by considering the number
of dwelling units within a gated neighborhood, internal and external traffic
patterns, number of gated entries, the number of lanes at each entry point,
type of gate control at each entry and type of street from which access is
being taken.
      (3)   Turnaround. There shall be a minimum of a 38-foot radius turnaround
area located on the public street side of the gate to ensure unrestricted
access to and from the gate area and public street system. This required
turnaround area may include a rolled curb and sidewalk; provided there are no
obstructions to vehicles on the sidewalk. This requirement shall be treated as
a general standard which may be modified based upon site and public health and
safety considerations at the sole discretion of the city.
FIGURE 3.17
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4347.jpg]
 
      (4)   Review by Fire Authority. The Fire Authority shall be asked to make
its review and recommendations on any proposed plan.
      (5)   Other topographical considerations. The Community Development
Department shall review the plan for other site and topographical layout
considerations to ensure that the design of the gate system does not create
health and safety hazards.
      (6)   Access to public facilities. The proposal shall not result in the
blockage or inhibition of access by the public to public or quasi-public
facilities, whether existing or planned, such as parks, schools, hiking and
biking and equestrian trails and the like, which serve more of the community
than the proposed gated neighborhood.
      (7)   Private streets. Any public streets proposed to be vacated within
the neighborhood shall be maintained for access and parking as they were
previously as public streets. All such streets shall be considered “public” for
the purposes of implementing development standards, such as setbacks, screening
requirements or other standards.
   (D)   Exceptions to design standards. Notwithstanding the standards set
forth in division (C) above, the decision-making authority may make exceptions
to one or more of the design standards set forth above if it finds that:
      (1)   There would be no health or safety hazard created by the waiver of
the design standard; and
      (2)   Unique topographical features, including size of the neighborhood,
justify waiver of one or more of the design standards.
   (E)   Plans entailing vacation of public streets.
      (1)   Reservation of easements. The city shall reserve easements for
franchised utility/service providers to allow access, maintenance, operation
and placement of public utility and service systems.
      (2)   Vacation procedure. Where a gate-guarded neighborhood plan includes
a request that the city vacate a public street, the city’s street vacation
procedures, as stipulated in City Council Resolution 90-71, shall address the
following additional provisions.
         (a)   In determining whether to vacate a public street as a part of a
gate-guarded neighborhood plan, the City Council will take into consideration
the aesthetic and financial impact on the city and social impacts arising from
the proposed vacation of the public streets, as part of the specified request
under review.
         (b)   Prior to consideration by the City Council, the Planning
Commission shall review the vacation request and shall make a recommendation to
the City Council.
         (c)   In order to ensure consistency, street vacation requests shall
be processed concurrently with the gate-guarded neighborhood plan and related
site development permit.
      (3)   Revocation of vacation of public streets. The City Council reserves
the right to conditionally approve a vacation of a public street in a manner
that will allow the city to revoke the vacation of the street if the plan
proponent fails to abide by conditions of approval, or the plan implementation
is otherwise found to create a public health or safety hazard. If there is a
revocation, the gates must be removed.
   (F)   Review procedure. The gate-guarded neighborhood request shall be
subject to review and approval of a site development permit, which shall be
processed in accordance with §
9-1-114. If the gate-guarded neighborhood request includes the proposed
vacation of public streets or public easements, the administrative site
development permit approval shall be conditioned upon City Council approval of
the proposed street or easement vacation, and recordation of the Council
resolution approving the vacation.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35.25) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
30, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-35.26 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS AND JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to allow and regulate
accessory dwelling units (ADUs) and junior accessory dwelling units (JADUs) in
compliance with of the California Government Code, Title 7, Division 1, Chapter
13.
   (B)   Effect of conforming. An ADU or JADU that conforms to the standards in
this section will not be:
      (1)   Deemed to be inconsistent with the city’s general plan and zoning
designation for the lot on which the ADU or JADU is located;
      (2)   Deemed to exceed the allowable density for the lot on which the ADU
or JADU is located;
      (3)   Considered in the application of any local ordinance, policy or
program to limit residential growth; and
      (4)   Required to correct a nonconforming zoning condition, as defined in
division (C) below. This does not prevent the city from enforcing compliance
with applicable building standards in accordance with California Health and
Safety Code, § 17980.12.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT or ADU. An attached or a detached residential
dwelling unit that provides complete independent living facilities for one or
more persons and is located on a lot with a proposed or existing primary
residence. An ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT also includes the following:
         (a)   An efficiency unit, as defined by California Health and Safety
Code, § 17958.1; and
         (b)   A manufactured home, as defined by California Health and Safety
Code, § 18007.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure that is accessory and incidental to a
dwelling located on the same lot.
      COMPLETE INDEPENDENT LIVING FACILITIES. Permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation on the same parcel as the single-
family or multi-family dwelling is or will be situated.
      EFFICIENCY KITCHEN. A kitchen that includes all of the following:
         (a)   A cooking facility with appliances; and
         (b)   A food preparation counter and storage cabinets that are of a
reasonable size in relation to the size of the JADU.
      JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT or JADU. A residential unit that satisfies
all of the following:
         (a)   It is no more than 500 square feet of interior livable space in
size;
         (b)   It is contained entirely within an existing or proposed single-
family structure. An enclosed use within the residence, such as an attached
garage, is considered to be a part of and contained within the single-family
structure;
         (c)   It includes its own separate sanitation facilities or shares
sanitation facilities with the existing or proposed single-family structure;
         (d)   If the unit does not include its own separate bathroom, then it
contains an interior entrance to the main living area of the existing or
proposed single-family structure in addition to an exterior entrance that is
separate from the main entrance to the primary dwelling; and
         (e)   It includes an efficiency kitchen, as defined above.
      LIVABLE SPACE. A space in a dwelling intended for human habitation,
including living, sleeping, eating, cooking or sanitation.
      LIVING AREA. The interior habitable area of a dwelling unit, including
basements and attics, but does not include a garage or any accessory structure.
      NONCONFORMING ZONING CONDITION. A physical improvement on a property that
does not conform with current zoning standards.
      PASSAGEWAY. A pathway that is unobstructed clear to the sky and extends
from a street to one entrance of the ADU or JADU.
      PROPOSED DWELLING. A dwelling that is the subject of a permit application
and that meets the requirements for permitting.
      PUBLIC TRANSIT. A location, including, but not limited to, a bus stop or
train station, where the public may access buses, trains, subways and other
forms of transportation that charge set fares, run on fixed routes and are
available to the public.
      TANDEM PARKING. Two or more automobiles are parked on a driveway or in
any other location on a lot, lined up behind one another.
   (D)   Approvals. The following approvals apply to ADUs and JADUs created
under this section.
      (1)   Ministerial ADU and building permits required. Every ADU and JADU
requires an ADU permit and a building permit. The city will review and approve
permit applications in accordance with division (D)(3) below.
      (2)   Processing fee. The city may charge a fee to reimburse it for costs
incurred in processing ADU permits, including the costs of adopting or amending
this section. The ADU-permit processing fee is determined by the Director of
Community Development and approved by the City Council by resolution.
      (3)   Process and timing.
         (a)   Completeness.
            1.   Determination in 15 days. The city will determine whether an
application to create or serve an ADU or JADU is complete and will provide
written notice of the determination to the applicant within 15 business days
after the city receives the application submittal.
            2.   Incomplete items. If the city’s determination under division
(D)(3)(a)1. above is that the application is incomplete, the city’s notice must
list the incomplete items and describe how the application can be made
complete.
            3.   Cure. After receiving a notice that the application is
incomplete, the applicant may cure and address the items that were deemed by
the city to be incomplete.
            4.   Subsequent submittals. If the applicant submits additional
information to address incomplete items within 15 business days of the
subsequent submittal, the city will determine in writing whether the additional
infonnation remedies all the incomplete items that the city identified in its
original notice. The city may not require the application to include an item
that was not included in the original notice.
            5.   Deemed complete. If the city does not make a timely
determination as required by this division (D)(3)(a), the application or
resubmitted application is deemed complete for the purposes of division (D)(3)
(c) below.
            6.   Appeal of incompleteness. An applicant may appeal the city’s
determination that the application is incomplete by submitting a written appeal
to the City Clerk. The Planning Commission will review the written appeal and
affirm or reverse the completeness determination and provide a final written
determination to the applicant within 60 business days after receipt of the
appeal.
         (b)   No discretion or hearing. Ministerial permits for an ADU or JADU
are considered and approved without discretionary review or a hearing.
         (c)   Deadline to approve or deny ministerial approvals. The city must
approve or deny an application to create an ADU or JADU within 60 days from the
date that the city receives a complete application. If the city has not
approved or denied the complete application within 60 days, the application is
deemed approved unless either:
            1.   The applicant requests a delay, in which case the 60-day time
period is tolled for the period of the requested delay; or
            2.   When an application to create an ADU or JADU is submitted with
a permit application to create a new single-family or multi-family dwelling on
the lot, the city may delay acting on the permit application for the ADU or
JADU until the city acts on the permit application to create the new single-
family or multi-family dwelling, but the application to create the ADU or JADU
will still be considered ministerially without discretionary review or a
hearing.
         (d)   Denial. If the city denies an application to create an ADU or
JADU, the city must provide the applicant with comments that include, among
other things, a list of all the defective or deficient items and a description
of how the application may be remedied by the applicant. Notice of the denial
and corresponding comments must be provided to the applicant within the 60-day
time period established by division (D)(3)(c) above.
         (e)   Appeal of denial. An applicant may appeal the city’s denial of
the application by submitting a written appeal to the City Clerk. The Planning
Commission will review the written appeal and affirm or reverse the denial and
provide a final written determination to the applicant within 60 business days
after receipt of the appeal.
         (f)   Deadline to approve or deny CDP. Nothing in state ADU and JADU
laws or this code supersedes or in any way alters or lessens the effect or
application of the California Coastal Act of 1976, except that:
            1.   If a coastal development permit (CDP) is required for the ADU
or JADU, a complete CDP application must be included for the ADU or JADU
application to be complete;
            2.   The CDP application must be approved or denied within 60 days
of receiving the complete application; and
            3.   If the city does not have a certified local coastal plan or
program when the complete ADU or JADU application is received, the city will
immediately notify the California Coastal Commission of the complete
application.
         (g)   Concurrent review of demolition. A demolition permit for a
detached garage that is to be replaced with an ADU is reviewed with the
application for the ADU and issued at the same time.
   (E)   Classes.
      (1)   Class 1: statutorily regulated. Class 1 ADUs and JADUs are approved
under California Government Code, § 66323. If an ADU or JADU complies with each
of the general requirements in division (F) below, it is allowed in each of the
scenarios provided in this division (E)(1). An ADU and JADU approved under
division (E)(1)(a) below may be combined with an ADU approved under division
(E)(1)(b) below, and ADUs approved under division (E)(1)(c) below may be
combined with ADUs approved under division (E)(1)(d) below.
         (a)   Converted on lot with single-family. One ADU as described in
this division (E)(1)(a) and one JADU on a lot with a proposed or existing
single-family dwelling on it, where the ADU or JADU:
            1.   Is either: within the space of a proposed single-family
dwelling, within the existing space of an existing single-family dwelling or
(in the case of an ADU only) within the existing space of an accessory
structure, plus up to 150 additional square feet if the expansion is limited to
accommodating ingress and egress;
            2.   Has exterior access that is independent of that for the
single-family dwelling;
            3.   Has side and rear setbacks sufficient for fire and safety, as
dictated by applicable building and fire codes; and
            4.   The JADU complies with the requirements of California
Government Code, §§ 66333 through 66339.
         (b)   Limited detached on lot with single-family. One detached, new
construction ADU on a lot with a proposed or existing single-family dwelling,
if the detached ADU satisfies each of the following limitations:
            1.   The side- and rear-yard setbacks are at least four feet;
            2.   The total floor area is 800 square feet of livable space or
smaller; and
            3.   The peak height above grade does not exceed the applicable
height limit in division (F)(2) below.
         (c)   Converted on lot with multi-family. One or more ADUs within
portions of existing multi-family dwelling structures that are not used as
livable space, including, but not limited to, storage rooms, boiler rooms,
passageways, attics, basements or garages, if each converted ADU complies with
state building standards for dwellings. Under this division (E)(1)(c), at least
one converted ADU is allowed within an existing multi-family dwelling, up to a
quantity equal to 25% of the existing multi-family dwelling units.
         (d)   Limited detached on lot with multi-family. No more than two
detached ADUs on a lot with a proposed multi-family dwelling, or up to eight
detached ADUs on a lot with an existing multi-family dwelling, if each detached
ADU satisfies all of the following:
            1.   The side- and rear-yard setbacks are at least four feet. If
the existing multi-family dwelling has a rear or side yard setback of less than
four feet, the city will not require any modification to the multi-family
dwelling as a condition of approving the ADU;
            2.   The peak height above grade does not exceed the applicable
height limit provided in division (F)(2) below; and
            3.   If the lot has an existing multi-family dwelling, the quantity
of detached ADUs does not exceed the number of primary dwelling units on the
lot.
      (2)   Class 2: locally regulated. Class 2 ADUs are approved under
California Government Code, §§ 66314 through 66322. Except for Class 1 ADUs
approved under division (E)(1) above, all ADUs are subject to the standards set
forth in divisions (F) and (G) below.
   (F)   General requirements. The following requirements apply to all Class 1
and Class 2 ADUs and JADUs.
      (1)   Zoning.
         (a)   A Class 1 ADU approved under division (E)(1) above may be
created on a lot in a residential or mixed-use zone.
         (b)   A Class 2 ADU approved under division (E)(2) above may be
created on a lot that is zoned to allow single-family dwelling residential use
or multi-family dwelling residential use.
         (c)   In accordance with California Government Code, § 66333(a), a
JADU may only be created on a lot zoned for single-family residences.
      (2)   Height.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided by divisions (F)(2)(b) and (F)(2)
(c) below, a detached ADU created on a lot with an existing or proposed single-
family or multi-family dwelling unit may not exceed 16 feet in height.
         (b)   A detached ADU may be up to 18 feet in height if it is created
on a lot with an existing or proposed single family or multi-family dwelling
unit that is located within one-half mile walking distance of a major transit
stop or high quality transit corridor, as those terms are defined in the
California Public Resources Code, § 21155, and the ADU may be up to two
additional feet in height (for a maximum of 20 feet) if necessary to
accommodate a roof pitch on the ADU that is aligned with the roof pitch of the
primary dwelling unit.
         (c)   A detached ADU created on a lot with an existing or proposed
multi-family dwelling that has more than one story above grade may not exceed
18 feet in height.
         (d)   An ADU that is attached to the primary dwelling may not exceed
25 feet in height or the height limitation imposed by the underlying zone that
applies to the primary dwelling, whichever is lower. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, ADUs subject to this division (F)(2)(d) may not exceed two stories.
         (e)   For purposes of this division (F)(2), height is measured from
existing legal grade or the level of the lowest floor, whichever is lower, to
the peak of the structure.
      (3)   Fire sprinklers.
         (a)   Fire sprinklers are required in an ADU or JADU if sprinklers are
required in the primary residence.
         (b)   The construction of an ADU or JADU does not trigger a
requirement for fire sprinklers to be installed in the existing primary
dwelling.
      (4)   Rental term. No ADU or JADU may be rented for a term that is
shorter than 30 days. This prohibition applies regardless of when the ADU or
JADU was created.
      (5)   No separate conveyance. An ADU or JADU may be rented, but, except
as otherwise provided in California Government Code, § 66341, no ADU or JADU
may be sold or otherwise conveyed separately from the lot and the primary
dwelling (in the case of a single-family lot) or from the lot and all of the
dwellings (in the case of a multi-family lot).
      (6)   Septic system. If the ADU or JADU will connect to an onsite
wastewater-treatment system, the owner must include with the application a
percolation test completed within the last five years or, if the percolation
test has been recertified, within the last ten years.
      (7)   Owner occupancy.
         (a)   ADUs. ADUs are not subject to an owner-occupancy requirement.
         (b)   JADUs.
            1.   Generally. As required by state law, JADUs are generally
subject to an owner-occupancy requirement. A natural person with legal or
equitable title to the property must reside on the property, in either the
primary dwelling or JADU, as the person’s legal domicile and permanent
residence.
            2.   Exceptions. The owner-occupancy requirement in this division
(F)(7)(b) does not apply in either of the following situations:
               a.   The JADU has separate sanitation facilities (i.e., does not
share sanitation facilities with the existing primary dwelling unit structure);
or
               b.   The property is entirely owned by another governmental
agency, land trust or housing organization.
      (8)   Deed restriction. Prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy
for an JADU, a deed restriction must be recorded against the title of the
property in the County Recorder’s office and a copy filed with the Director of
Community Development. The deed restriction must run with the land and bind all
future owners. The form of the deed restriction will be provided by the city
and must provide that:
         (a)   The JADU may not be sold separately from the primary dwelling;
         (b)   The JADU is restricted to the approved size and to other
attributes allowed by this section;
         (c)   The deed restriction runs with the land and may be enforced
against future property owners;
         (d)   The deed restriction may be removed if the owner eliminates the
JADU, as evidenced by, for example, removal of the kitchen facilities. To
remove the deed restriction, an owner may make a written request of the
Director, providing evidence that the JADU has in fact been eliminated. The
Director may then determine whether the evidence supports the claim that the
JADU has been eliminated. Appeal may be taken from the Director’s determination
consistent with other provisions of this code. If the JADU is not entirely
physically removed, but is only eliminated by virtue of having a necessary
component of an JADU removed, the remaining structure and improvements must
otherwise comply with applicable provisions of this code; and
         (e)   The deed restriction is enforceable by the Director or their
designee for the benefit of the city. Failure of the property owner to comply
with the deed restriction may result in legal action against the property
owner, and the city is authorized to obtain any remedy available to it at law
or equity, including, but not limited to, obtaining an injunction enjoining the
use of the JADU in violation of the recorded restrictions or abatement of the
illegal unit.
      (9)   Building and safety.
         (a)   Must comply with building code. Subject to division (F)(9)(b)
below, all ADUs and JADUs must comply with all local building code
requirements.
         (b)   No change of occupancy. Construction of an ADU does not
constitute a Group R occupancy change under the local building code, as
described in § 310 of the California Building Code, unless the Building
Official or code enforcement division officer makes a written finding based on
substantial evidence in the record that the construction of the ADU could have
a specific, adverse impact on public health and safety. Nothing in this
division (F)(9)(b) prevents the city from changing the occupancy code of a
space that was uninhabitable space or that was only permitted for
nonresidential use and was subsequently converted for residential use in
accordance with this section.
      (10)   Certificate of occupancy timing.
         (a)   Generally. No certificate of occupancy for an ADU or JADU may be
issued before the certificate of occupancy is issued for the primary dwelling
unit.
         (b)   Limited exception for state-declared emergencies.
Notwithstanding division (F)(10)(a) above, a certificate of occupancy for an
ADU may be issued before a certificate of occupancy for the primary dwelling if
each of the following requirements are met.
            1.   The county is subject to a proclamation of a state of
emergency made by the California Governor on or after February 1, 2025.
            2.   The primary dwelling was substantially damaged or destroyed by
an event referenced in the Governor’s state of emergency proclamation.
            3.   The ADU has been issued construction permits and has passed
all required inspections.
            4.   The ADU is not attached to the primary dwelling.
   (G)   Specific ADU requirements. The following requirements apply only to
Class 2 ADUs approved under division (E)(2) above. This division (G) does not
apply to Class 1 ADUs or JADUs approved under division (E)(1) above.
      (1)   Maximum size.
         (a)   The maximum size of a detached or attached ADU subject to this
division (G) is 850 square feet of interior livable space for a studio or one-
bedroom unit and 1,000 square feet of interior livable space for a unit with
two or more bedrooms.
         (b)   An attached ADU that is created on a lot with an existing
primary dwelling is further limited to 50% of the floor area of the existing
primary dwelling.
         (c)   Application of other development standards in this division (G),
such as FAR or lot coverage, might further limit the size of the ADU, but no
application of the percent-based size limit in division (G)(1)(b) above or of a
FAR, front setback, lot coverage limit or open-space requirement may require
the ADU have less than 800 square feet of interior livable space.
      (2)   Setbacks.
         (a)   ADUs that are subject to this division (G) must conform to four-
foot side and rear setbacks. ADUs that are subject to this division (G) must
conform to 20-foot front setbacks, subject to division (G)(1)(c) above.
         (b)   No setback is required for an ADU that is subject to this
division (G) if the ADU is constructed in the same location and to the same
dimensions as an existing structure.
      (3)   Passageway. No passageway, as defined by division (C) above, is
required for an ADU.
      (4)   Parking.
         (a)   Generally. One off-street parking space is required for each ADU
or bedroom, whichever is less. The parking space may be provided in setback
areas or as tandem parking, as defined by division (C) above.
         (b)   Exceptions. No parking under division (G)(4)(a) is required in
the following situations:
            1.   The ADU is located within one-half mile walking distance of
public transit, as defined in division (C) above;
            2.   The ADU is located within an architecturally and historically
significant historic district;
            3.   The ADU is part of the proposed or existing primary residence
or an accessory structure;
            4.   When on-street parking permits are required but not offered to
the occupant of the ADU;
            5.   When there is an established car share vehicle stop located
within one block of the ADU; and
            6.   When the permit application to create an ADU is submitted with
an application to create a new single-family or new multi-family dwelling on
the same lot; provided that the ADU or the lot satisfies any other criteria
listed in divisions (G)(4)(b)1. through (G)(4)(b)5. above.
         (c)   No replacement. When a garage, carport, covered parking
structure or uncovered parking space is demolished in conjunction with the
construction of an ADU or converted to an ADU, those off-street parking spaces
are not required to be replaced.
      (5)   Architectural requirements.
         (a)   The materials and colors of the exterior walls, roof and windows
and doors must be the same as those of the primary dwelling.
         (b)   The roof slope must match that of the dominant roof slope of the
primary dwelling. The dominant roof slope is the slope shared by the largest
portion of the roof.
         (c)   The exterior lighting must be limited to down-lights or as
otherwise required by the building or fire code.
         (d)   The ADU must have an independent exterior entrance, apart from
that of the primary dwelling.
         (e)   The interior horizontal dimensions of an ADU must be at least
ten feet wide in every direction, with a minimum interior wall height of seven
feet.
         (f)   No window or door of the ADU may have a direct line of sight to
an adjoining residential property. Each window and door must either be located
where there is no direct line of sight or screened using fencing, landscaping
or privacy glass to prevent a direct line of sight.
         (g)   All windows and doors in an ADU less than 30 feet from a
property line that is not a public right-of-way line must either be (for
windows) clerestory with the bottom of the glass at least six feet above the
finished floor or (for windows and for doors) utilize frosted or obscure glass.
      (6)   Landscape requirements. Evergreen landscape screening must be
planted and maintained between the ADU and the public right-of-way as follows.
         (a)   At least one 15-gallon size plant must be provided for every
five linear feet of exterior ADU wall. Alternatively, at least one 24 inch box
size plant must be provided for every ten linear feet of exterior ADU wall.
         (b)   Plant specimens must be at least six feet tall when installed.
As an alternative, a solid fence of at least six feet in height may be
installed.
         (c)   All landscaping must be drought-tolerant.
         (d)   All landscaping must be from the city’s approved plant list.
      (7)   Historical protections. An ADU that is on or within 600 feet of
real property that is listed in the California Register of Historic Resources
must be located entirely behind the rear-most exterior wall of the primary
dwelling and directly behind the primary dwelling.
      (8)   Allowed stories. No ADU subject to this division (G) may have more
than one story, except that an ADU that is attached to the primary dwelling may
have the stories allowed under division (F)(2)(d) above.
   (H)   Fees. The following requirements apply to all Class 1 ADUs and JADUs
and Class 2 ADUs that are approved under divisions (E)(1) or (E)(2) above.
      (1)   Impact fees.
         (a)   No impact fee is required for a JADU or for an ADU that has less
than 750 square feet of interior livable space. For purposes of this division
(H)(1), IMPACT FEE means a “fee” under the Mitigation Fee Act (California
Government Code, § 66000(b)) and a fee under the Quimby Act (California
Government Code, § 66477). IMPACT FEE here does not include any connection fee
or capacity charge for water or sewer service.
         (b)   A JADU or ADU with less than 500 square feet of interior livable
space does not increase assessable space by 500 square feet for purposes of
California Education Code, § 17620(a)(1)(C), and is, therefore, not subject to
school fees under California Education Code, § 17620.
         (c)   Any impact fee that is required for an ADU that has 750 square
feet or more of interior livable space must be charged proportionately in
relation to the square footage of the primary dwelling unit (e.g., the floor
area of the ADU, divided by the floor area of the primary dwelling, times the
typical fee amount charged for a new dwelling.)
      (2)   Utility fees.
         (a)   If an ADU or JADU is constructed with a new single-family home,
a separate utility connection directly between the ADU or JADU and the utility
and payment of the nonnal connection fee and capacity charge for a new dwelling
are required.
         (b)   Except as described in division (H)(2)(a) above, JADUs and
converted ADUs on a single-family lot that are created under division (E)(1)(a)
above are not required to have a new or separate utility connection directly
between the JADU or ADU and the utility, nor is a connection fee or capacity
charge required. Notwithstanding the rest of this division (H)(2)(b), a direct
utility connection is required for separate conveyance of an ADU when separate
conveyance is allowed under this code.
         (c)   Except as described in division (H)(2)(a) above, all ADUs that
are not covered by division (H)(2)(b) require a new, separate utility
connection directly between the ADU and the utility for any utility that is
provided by the city. All utilities that are not provided by the city are
subject to the connection and fee requirements of the utility provider.
            1.   The connection is subject to a connection fee or capacity
charge that is proportionate to the burden created by the ADU based on either
the floor area or the number of drainage-fixture units (DFU) values, as defined
by the Uniform Plumbing Code, upon the water or sewer system.
            2.   The portion of the fee or charge that is charged by the city
may not exceed the reasonable cost of providing this service.
   (I)   Nonconforming zoning code conditions, building code violations and
unpermitted structures.
      (1)   Generally. The city will not deny an ADU or JADU application due to
a nonconforming zoning condition, building code violation or unpermitted
structure on the lot that does not present a threat to the public health and
safety and that is not affected by the construction of the ADU or JADU.
      (2)   Unpermitted ADUs and JADUs constructed before 2020.
         (a)   Permit to legalize. As required by state law, the city may not
deny a permit to legalize an existing but unpermitted ADU or JADU that was
constructed before January 1, 2020, if denial is based on either of the
following grounds:
            1.   The ADU or JADU violates applicable building standards; or
            2.   The ADU or JADU does not comply with state ADU or JADU law or
this section.
         (b)   Exceptions.
            1.   Notwithstanding division (I)(2)(a) above, the city may deny a
permit to legalize an existing but unpermitted ADU or JADU that was constructed
before January 1, 2020, if the city makes a finding that correcting a violation
is necessary to comply with the standards specified in California Health and
Safety Code, § 17920.3.
            2.   Division (I)(2)(a) above does not apply to a building that is
deemed to be substandard in accordance with California Health and Safety Code,
§ 17920.3.
   (J)   Nonconforming ADUs and discretionary approval. Any proposed ADU or
JADU that would otherwise be allowed under this section but that does not
conform to the objective design or development standards set forth in divisions
(A) through (I) above may be allowed by the city with a site development permit
for alternate development standards in accordance with the other provisions of
this title.
(Ord. 2023-223, § 3, passed 6-20-2023; Ord. 2024-232, passed 1-21-2025; Ord.
2026-239, § 4, passed 2-17-2026)
§ 9-1-35.27 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 9-1-35.28 TRANSITIONAL AND SUPPORTIVE HOUSING.
   (A)   Transitional housing. In accordance with California Government Code, §
65583(c)(3), transitional housing is considered a residential use of property
and is subject to those restrictions that apply to other residential dwellings
of the same type in the same zone.
   (B)   Supportive housing.
      (1)   Generally. In accordance with California Government Code, § 65583
(c)(3), supportive housing is considered a residential use of property and is
subject to those restrictions that apply to other residential dwellings of the
same type in the same zone.
      (2)   In zones allowing multi-family. Supportive housing that complies
with the requirements of California Government Code, §§ 65650 et seq. is
considered a use by right in all zones where multifamily uses are permitted,
including mixed-use zones. In accordance with California Government Code, §
65651(b)(1), a supportive housing development must comply with all development
standards and policies that apply to other multi-family developments within the
same zone, unless preempted by state law.
(Ord. 2024-228, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 9-1-36 CONDOMINIUM CONVERSIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to:
      (1)   Provide standards and criteria for regulating the conversion of
rental housing to residential condominium, community apartment or stock
cooperative types of ownership and for determining when such conversions are
appropriate;
      (2)   Mitigate any hardship to tenants caused by their displacement; and
      (3)   Provide for the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to all
conversions of rental housing into condominiums, community apartments or stock
cooperatives, notwithstanding any other provision of this zoning code or of any
planned community ordinance.
   (C)   Use permit and subdivision required. All conversion projects subject
to this section shall require approval of a use permit in accordance with §
9-1-114 and approval of tentative and final subdivision maps.
   (D)   Zoning and subdivision standards. Conversion projects shall conform
to:
      (1)   The applicable standards and requirements of the zoning district in
which the project is located at the time of approval; and
      (2)   The applicable provisions of the subdivision code.
   (E)   Tenant notification. Applicants for conversion projects shall be
responsible for notifying existing and prospective rental tenants as follows.
      (1)   Existing tenants. At least 60 days prior to the filing of an
application for conversion of rental or lease property, the applicant or the
applicant’s agent shall give notice of such filing in the form set forth in §
66452.18 of the California Subdivision Map Act to each tenant of the subject
property. Further, if the conversion project is approved, the applicant shall
give all tenants a minimum of 180 days’ advance notice of the termination of
their tenancy.
      (2)   Prospective tenants. At least 60 days prior to the filing of an
application for conversion of rental or lease property, the applicant or the
applicant’s agent shall give notice of such filing in the form set forth in §
66452.17 of the Subdivision Map Act to each person applying after such date for
rental or lease of a unit of the subject property. Pursuant to the Subdivision
Map Act, failure of an applicant to provide such notice shall not be grounds to
deny the conversion but shall make the applicant subject to the penalties
specified in § 66452.8 of the Subdivision Map Act.
      (3)   Evidence of tenant notification. Each application for conversion
shall include evidence to the satisfaction of the Director that the
notification requirements specified in divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) above have
been or will be satisfied.
   (F)   Tenant purchase option. The property owner shall provide tenants with
a 90-day preemptive right to purchase a unit or a right of exclusive occupancy
upon more favorable terms and conditions than those on which such unit or share
will be initially offered to the general public. Such right shall be
irrevocable for a period of 90 days after the commencement of sales and
notification of the tenant of such right.
   (G)   Application requirements. Each application for a conversion project
shall be accompanied by the following in addition to the standard filing
requirements for use permit and subdivision applications.
      (1)   Engineering report. An engineering report on the general condition
of all structural, electrical, plumbing and mechanical elements of the existing
development, including noise insulation, and the estimated cost of repair or
improvements, if any. The report shall be completed to the satisfaction of the
Director, signed and dated by the Director and made available to prospective
buyers if the conversion is completed.
      (2)   List of tenants. A complete mailing list of all tenants occupying
the subject property and two corresponding sets of stamped addressed envelopes.
Within ten days after the filing of the application, the Director shall notify
each tenant of the application, forward a copy of the engineering report
required by division (G)(1) above and list the procedures to be followed. The
Director shall mail a notice of public hearing at least ten days before the
hearing to each tenant on the mailing list.
      (3)   Housing program.
         (a)   Each application for a conversion project shall be accompanied
by a housing program.
         (b)   The program shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
            1.   The means by which the provision of affordable rental housing
will be achieved (e.g., by maintaining affordable rental condominium units
within the converted project or by providing affordable rental units elsewhere
in the city);
            2.   A housing report addressing housing affordability within the
general plan community profile area, including vacancy rates and other
available housing of similar type and rent, the current rents and estimated
monthly payments and fees of the units to be converted and all improvements and
renovations contemplated;
            3.   A survey of existing tenants as to their length of occupancy
and the number of those who express the intention of purchasing one of the
units; and
            4.   A relocation plan which identifies the steps which will be
taken to ensure the successful relocation of each tenant if the conversion is
completed. The relocation plan shall also state what specific relocation
assistance existing tenants will be given, such as costs relating to physically
moving tenants and their possessions, first months’ rent in the tenant’s new
unit, security and cleaning deposits and phone connection and utility deposits.
Particular consideration shall be given to the needs of elderly and disabled
individuals, families with children and other tenants who may encounter
difficulty in finding a new residence.
   (H)   Affordable units in condominium conversions. The provision of
affordable dwelling units in connection with the conversion of apartments to
condominiums shall be governed by the provisions of this section and of §
9-1-37.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-36) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-37 DENSITY BONUSES AND RELATED AFFORDABLE HOUSING INCENTIVES.
   The density bonuses and related affordable housing incentives required by
state law, including, but not limited to, California Government Code, §§ 65915
et seq., are available to applicants on the terms and conditions specified in
state law.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-37) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2013-173, § 3,
passed 2-19-2013; Ord. 2024-228, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 9-1-38 GROUP HOMES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purposes of this section are to further the purposes of
state and federal disability and fair housing laws by, among other things:
accommodating the needs of the disabled in a manner that is reasonable and that
facilitates the use and enjoyment of a dwelling the same as for non-disabled
individuals; and to provide living environments that will enhance the
opportunity for the disabled.
   (B)   Standards for group homes. Group homes, which are distinguished from
other boarding houses by the disabled status of their clientele, are permitted
in all zones that allow residential uses, subject to the following.
      (1)   Structure. The structure in which and the lot on which a group home
is established must comply with all standards that apply to a residential
dwelling structure and lot in the same zone.
      (2)   Group home permit. An application for a ministerial, streamlined
administrative permit is submitted to the Community Development Director, or
designee, by the property owner and, if the owner is not also the operator, by
the operator of the group home. The application must provide the following:
         (a)   The name, address, phone number and driver’s license number of
the property owner, operator and house manager;
         (b)   A copy of the group home rules and regulations, the maximum
number of occupants (may not exceed two persons per legal bedroom, including
the house manager), intake procedures and relapse policy;
         (c)   A signed and notarized copy of the city’s resident verification
form, including affirmation by the operator that only residents (other than the
house manager) who are disabled, as defined by state and federal law, shall
reside at the group home;
         (d)   If the operator is not the property owner, a signed and
notarized copy of the city’s property owner consent form for operation of a
group home at the property;
         (e)   Blank copies of all forms that all residents and potential
residents are required to complete;
         (f)   A fee for the cost of processing the application as set by
resolution of the City Council;
         (g)   No person shall open a group home or begin employment with a
group home until this information has been provided and such persons shall be
responsible to for updating any of this information to keep it current; and
         (h)   A detailed and labeled floor plan that clearly shows all
bedrooms and areas intended for common use.
(Ord. 2024-228, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 9-1-39 REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   It is the city’s policy to provide reasonable accommodation in
accordance with federal and state fair housing laws (42 U.S.C. §§ 3600 et seq.
and California Government Code, §§ 12900 et seq.) for persons with disabilities
seeking fair access to housing in the application of the city’s zoning laws.
      (2)   The term DISABILITY, as used in this subchapter, shall have the
same meaning as the terms DISABILITY and HANDICAPPED as defined in the federal
and state fair housing laws.
      (3)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the procedure by
which a person may request reasonable accommodation and how the request is to
be processed.
   (B)   Applicability. Any person seeking approval to construct and/or modify
residential housing for person(s) with disabilities, and/or operate a
residential care facility, group home or referral facility, which will
substantially serve persons with disabilities may apply for a reasonable
accommodation to obtain relief from a zoning code provision, regulation, policy
or condition which causes a barrier to equal opportunity for housing.
   (C)   Application required.
      (1)   An application for a reasonable accommodation shall be filed and
processed with the Planning Division.
      (2)   The application shall be made in writing and shall include the
following information and be subject to the determinant factors required by
this section:
         (a)   The zoning code provision, regulation, policy or condition from
which accommodation is being requested;
         (b)   The basis for the claim that the individuals are considered
disabled under state or federal law, and why the accommodation is necessary to
provide equal opportunity for housing and to make the specific housing
available to the individuals;
         (c)   Any other information that the Director reasonably determines is
necessary for evaluating the request for reasonable accommodation;
         (d)   Documentation that the applicant is an individual with a
disability, applying on behalf of one or more individuals with a disability or
a developer or provider of housing for one or more individuals with a
disability;
         (e)   The specific exception or modification to the zoning code
provision, regulation, policy or condition requested by the applicant;
         (f)   Documentation that the specific exception or modification
requested by the applicant is necessary to provide one or more individuals with
a disability an equal opportunity to use and enjoy the residence; and
         (g)   Any other information that the hearing officer reasonably
concludes is necessary to determine whether the findings required by division
(G) below can be made, so long as any request for information regarding the
disability of the individuals benefitted complies with fair housing law
protections and the privacy rights of the individuals affected.
   (D)   Fees. No application fee is required.
   (E)   Director action. Within 60 days of receipt of a completed application,
the Community Development Director shall issue a written determination to
approve, conditionally approve or deny a request for reasonable accommodation,
and the modification or revocation thereof in compliance with this section. Any
appeal to reasonable accommodation request denial or conditional approval shall
be heard with, and subject to, the notice, review, approval and appeal
procedures prescribed for any other discretionary permit.
   (F)   Grounds for reasonable accommodation. The following factors shall be
considered in determining whether to grant a reasonable accommodation.
      (1)   (a)   Is the requested accommodation necessary to afford a disabled
person an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling?
         (b)   To determine whether the accommodation is necessary, the
Director may consider, among other things: the nature of the disability,
including the special needs created by the disability; the physical attributes
and setting of the property and structures; the potential benefit that can be
accomplished by the requested accommodation; and alternative accommodations
that may provide a comparable level of benefit.
      (2)   (a)   Is the requested accommodation reasonable?
         (b)   A requested accommodation is not reasonable if it would impose
an undue financial or administrative burden on the city. It is also not
reasonable if it would fundamentally alter a city program, such as the city’s
zoning scheme.
         (c)   In considering the financial or administrative burden on the
city, the Director may consider, among other things, the extent to which the
city would have to dedicate resources, such as staff time and funds, to grant
the request and other requests like it.
         (d)   In considering the potential alteration to a city program, such
as the city’s zoning scheme, the Director may consider, among other things,
whether granting the request would be consistent with the city’s general plan,
with the purpose and nature of the particular zoning district, and with nearby
uses. The Director may also consider whether the requested accommodation would
potentially have adverse external impacts on properties in the vicinity.
   (G)   Findings.
      (1)   The written decision to approve, conditionally approve or deny a
request for reasonable accommodation shall be based on the following findings,
all of which are required for approval.
      (2)   In making these findings, the Director may approve alternative
reasonable accommodations which provide an equivalent level of benefit to the
applicant:
         (a)   The requested accommodation is requested by or on the behalf of
one or more individuals with a disability protected under the fair housing
laws;
         (b)   The requested accommodation is necessary to provide one or more
individuals with a disability an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling;
         (c)   The requested accommodation will not impose an undue financial
or administrative burden on the city, as “undue financial or administrative
burden” is defined in fair housing laws and interpretive case law;
         (d)   The requested accommodation is consistent with whether or not
the residents would constitute a single housekeeping unit;
         (e)   The requested accommodation will not, under the specific facts
of the case, result in a direct threat to the health or safety of other
individuals or substantial physical damage to the property of others;
         (f)   The requested accommodation is necessary to make facilities of a
similar nature or operation economically viable in light of the particularities
of the relevant market and market participants;
         (g)   The existing supply of facilities of a similar nature and
operation in the community is sufficient to provide individuals with a
disability an equal opportunity to live in a residential setting; and
         (h)   The requested accommodation will not result in a fundamental
alteration in the nature of the city’s zoning program.
   (H)   Additional considerations. The city may consider, but is not limited
to, the following factors in determining whether the requested accommodation
would require a fundamental alteration in the nature of the city’s zoning
program:
      (1)   Whether the requested accommodation would fundamentally alter the
character of the neighborhood;
      (2)   Whether the accommodation would result in a substantial increase in
traffic or insufficient parking;
      (3)   Whether granting the requested accommodation would substantially
undermine any express purpose of either the city’s general plan or an
applicable specific plan;
      (4)   Whether the requested accommodation would create an
institutionalized environment due to the number of and distance between
facilities that are similar in nature or operation; and
      (5)   Any other factors that would cause a fundamental alteration in the
city’s zoning program, as may be defined in the fair housing law.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-39) (Ord. 2018-194, § 2, passed 6-5-2018)
** ARTICLE 4. NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS **
§ 9-1-40 SUMMARY OF NONRESIDENTIAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Section
9-1-42 specifies the land uses allowed in each nonresidential district.
   (B)   Development standards. Section
9-1-43 specifies development standards for nonresidential districts.
   (C)   Supplemental regulations. Supplemental regulations for nonresidential
districts are as follows:
      (1)   Parking and signs.....4-16;
      (2)   Fences and walls.....4-16;
      (3)   Landscaping.....4-16;
      (4)   Screening.....4-17;
      (5)   Detached accessory structures.....4-20;
      (6)   Satellite dish and other antennas.....4-21;
      (7)   Christmas tree sales.....4-22;
      (8)   Halloween pumpkin sales.....4-22;
      (9)   Produce stands.....4-23;
      (10)   Outdoor vendors.....4-24;
      (11)   Permanent outdoor display and storage.....4-24;
      (12)   Sidewalk sales and center-wide events.....4-26;
      (13)   Special outdoor events.....4-28;
      (14)   Outdoor lighting.....4-28;
      (15)   Caretaker residences.....4-29;
      (16)   Temporary construction and guard offices.....4-30;
      (17)   Relocatable buildings.....4-31;
      (18)   Vending machines and recycling facilities.....4-31;
      (19)   Trash and recyclable materials storage.....4-33;
      (20)   Noise control.....4-35;
      (21)   Operational standards for nonresidential uses.....4-35;
      (22)   Hazardous waste and materials.....4-36;
      (23)   Service station standards.....4-38;
      (24)   Child daycare centers.....4-39;
      (25)   Single room occupancy (SRO) hotels.....4-40; and
      (26)   Bus stop benches and shelters.....4-40.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-40) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-41 PURPOSE AND INTENT OF DISTRICTS.
   All references to §
9-1-41 include §§
9-1-41.1 through
9-1-41.6.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-41) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-41.1 CN NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   Purpose and intent: to provide for the development and maintenance of small-
scale commercial centers, generally between one and ten acres in size, which
provide day to day convenience goods and services for surrounding residential
neighborhoods.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-41.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-41.2 CC COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   Purpose and intent: to provide for the development and maintenance of medium
and large scale commercial areas located on arterial highways and serving the
entire community. The CC District is intended to serve a greater trade area
than neighborhood centers and provide a broader range of goods and services,
including retail, office, service, lodging and entertainment uses.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-41.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-41.3 CO OFFICE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   Purpose and intent: to provide for the development and maintenance of office
uses, such as professional offices, corporate headquarters and administrative
offices, plus limited retail and service businesses which are compatible with
and complimentary to office development.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-41.3) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-41.4 BP BUSINESS PARK DISTRICT.
   Purpose and intent: to provide for the development and maintenance of
office, research, wholesaling, light industrial and associated support uses
within well-landscaped master planned projects.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-41.4) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-41.5 PI PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT.
   Purpose and intent: to allow a wide range of public, semi-public and
special-purpose private facilities in order to provide a variety of government
and social services to the community.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-41.5) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-41.6 MIXED-USE TOWN CENTER.
   Purpose and intent: to provide for the development and maintenance of
community serving commercial uses within the town center area. To further
expand and support local business opportunities, the MU-TC District allows for
potential additive multi-family residential development where baseline
commercial thresholds have been achieved. The resulting Mixed-Use District
character is intended to add to the city’s housing stock and create pedestrian
activity and a vibrant city center featuring a range of shopping, restaurant,
service, employment, civic and entertainment and leisure activities and uses.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-41.6) (Ord. 2022-216, § 4, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 9-1-42 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Development permits required. Table 4.1 below specifies whether a use
or structure is permitted within a zoning district. In most cases, development
to establish a land use requires approval of a site development permit and/or
other permits as set forth in Subchapter 2, Article 11.
   (B)   Uses not listed in table. Land uses which are not listed in Table 4.1
below are not permitted, unless the Community Development Director or the
Planning Commission determines that such use is consistent with one of the
permitted use categories listed (e.g., principal use, conditional use and the
like) in accordance with §
9-1-23.
   (C)   Table of permitted uses.
      (1)   Table 4.1, “Permitted nonresidential uses”, below specifies those
uses and structures which are permitted within each nonresidential district.
      (2)   If a use or structure is not listed as permitted, it is prohibited,
unless specifically determined to be permitted in accordance with §
9-1-23.
      (3)   All uses listed shall be conducted within a completely enclosed
building unless specifically provided otherwise in this article.
      (4)   The letters in the columns beneath the district designations mean
the following.
         (a)   P. The use is permitted as a principal use within the district.
         (b)   A. The use is permitted only if accessory to the principal use
on the site.
         (c)   U. The use is permitted as a principal or accessory use if a use
permit is approved.
         (d)   T. The use is permitted on a temporary basis if a temporary use
permit is approved.
         (e)   X. The use is prohibited in the district.
   (D)   Exemption. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this
section is not intended to apply to the retail sale by delivery of medicinal
cannabis as defined and regulated under Senate Bill 1186, known as the
“Medicinal Cannabis Patients’ Right of Access Act”.
TABLE 4.1: PERMITTED NONRESIDENTIAL AND MIXED USES
P =
Permitted
use
T =
Temporary
use permit
A =        DISTRICT
Accessory
use
U = Use
permit
X =
Prohibited
use
           CN           CC                    BP                     MU-TC
LAND USE   Neighborhood Community  CO Office  Business PI Public     Mixed Use
           Commercial   Commercial Commercial Park     Institutional Town
                                                                     Center
TABLE 4.1: PERMITTED NONRESIDENTIAL AND MIXED USES
P = Permitted use
T = Temporary use permit
A = Accessory use                                                             DISTRICT
U = Use permit
X = Prohibited use
                                                                                                                                        MU-TC
                                                                              CN           CC         CO Office  BP       PI Public     Mixed
LAND USE                                                                      Neighborhood Community  Commercial Business Institutional Use
                                                                              Commercial   Commercial            Park                   Town
                                                                                                                                        Center
ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
Antennas and satellite dishes, subject to §                                  A            A          A          A        A             A
9-1-45.6
Dancing or live entertainment as an accessory use                             See Dining, Drinking and Entertainment Uses
Fences and walls, subject to §                                               A            A          A          A        A             A
9-1-45.2
Game machines as an accessory use                                             See Recreation Uses
Incidental products or services for employees or businesses, such as child    A            A          A          A        A             A
daycare, cafeterias and business support uses
Other accessory uses and structures which are customarily associated with and
subordinate to the principal use on the premises and are consistent with the  A            A          A          A        A             A
purpose and intent of the zoning district
Outdoor display and sale of merchandise, subject to §                        U            U          X          X        X             U
9-1-45.11
Outdoor vending machines, subject to §                                       U            U          U          U        U             U
9-1-45.18
Outdoor vending stands (such as flower stands, hotdog stands and the like) as U            U          U          U        U             U
an accessory use
Parking lots and facilities as an accessory use                               A            A          A          A        A             A
Recycling dropoff bins, subject to §                                         U            U          U          A        A             U
9-1-45.19
Signs, subject to Subchapter 2, Article 7                                     A            A          A          A        A             A
Swimming pools as an accessory use                                            X            U          U          U        U             U
ASSEMBLY USES
Churches, temples and other places of worship                                 U            U          X          U        P             U
Lodges, union halls, social clubs and senior citizen centers                  U            U          X          U        P             U
Mortuaries and funeral homes                                                  X            U          X          U        X             U
AUTOMOTIVE USES
(Subject to §
9-1-45.11)
Auto and motorcycle sales and rentals, new                                    X            U          X          U        X             X
Auto and motorcycle sales and rentals, used                                   X            X          X          U        X             X
Auto body repair and painting; major engine and transmission repair           X            X          X          X        X             X
Auto or truck storage yards, not including dismantling                        X            X          X          X        X             X
Auto parts stores                                                             X            P          X          X        X             P
Auto repair specialty shops as a principal use: providing minor auto
maintenance: tire sales/service, muffler, brake, lube and tune-up services -  X            X          X          X        X             X
not including major engine or drivetrain repair
Auto repair specialty shops same as above, but as an accessory use,
subordinate to a principal use such as a discount store, warehouse store or   X            A          X          X        X             X
other permitted principal use
Gas and service stations                                                      X            U          X          U        X             X
Car washes                                                                    X            U          X          U        X             X
Parking lots/garages as a principal use, subject to Subchapter 2, Article 6   X            U          U          U        U             U
Truck and/or equipment rentals                                                X            X          X          X        X             X
Truck, recreation vehicle and boat sales                                      X            X          X          U        X             X
GENERAL SERVICES
Barber shops, beauty, nail and tanning salons and similar uses                U            U          U          U        X             U
Laundromats and dry cleaners - except central cleaning plants                 P            P          P          P        X             P
Miscellaneous services, such as travel services, photo developing, rental     P            P          P          P        X             P
stores, shoe repair, appliance repair and similar uses
Pet grooming - without overnight boarding                                     U            U          X          U        X             U
Printing, blueprinting and copy services                                      U            P          P          P        X             P
Telecommuting centers                                                         U            U          U          U        X             U
Tutorial services and learning centers                                        U            U          U          U        X             U
DINING, DRINKING AND ENTERTAINMENT USES
Bars, taverns and cocktail lounges                                            U            U          U          U        X             U
Dancing or live entertainment as a principal use                              X            U          X          U        X             U
Dancing or live entertainment as an accessory use                             U            U          U          U        X             U
Restaurants, drive-thru                                                       U            U          U          X        X             X
Restaurants or retail food with the sale of alcohol                           U            U          U          U        X             U
Restaurants without the sale of alcohol *                                     P            P          P          P        X             P
Retail food *                                                                 P            P          P          P        X             P
Theaters, live or motion picture                                              X            U          X          X        X             U
* Operations outside the hours of 5:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. shall require a use permit to ensure there are no adverse negative impacts to the
surrounding area
INDUSTRIAL AND RESEARCH USES
Bottling plants                                                               X            X          X          X        X             X
Manufacture and assembly of components or finished products from materials
such as cloth, fiber, fur, glass, leather, stone, paper (except milling),     X            X          X          P        X             X
plastics, metal and wood, includes commercial kitchens
Off-site hazardous waste facilities, subject to §                            X            X          X          U        X             X
9-1-45.22
Recording studios                                                             X            P          P          P        X             P
Recycling centers as a principal use, collection and sorting only, subject to
§                                                                            X            X          X          U        X             X
9-1-45.19
Research and development                                                      X            U          U          P        X             U
Sign manufacturing, including sandblasting                                    X            X          X          U        X             X
Sign painting, except sandblasting                                            X            X          X          P        X             X
Welding, machine and metal plating shops                                      X            X          X          X        X             X
OFFICE USES AND HEALTH SERVICES
Banks                                                                         P            P          P          P        X             P
Employment agencies                                                           P            P          P          P        X             P
General and professional offices                                              P            P          P          P        X             P
Medical and other practitioner offices 4 clinics and surgicenters 5,000       U            U          U          U        X             U
square foot or more aggregate floor area in one building
Medical and other practitioner offices 4, clinics and surgicenters under      P            P          P          U        X             P
5,000 square foot aggregate floor area in one building
4 Offices for physicians, dentists, optometrists, chiropractors, physical therapists and similar professionals
Hospitals and convalescent hospitals                                          X            U          U          X        U             X
Veterinary clinics/animal hospitals, with pet boarding (indoor only)          X            U          U          U        X             U
Veterinary clinics/animal hospitals, without pet boarding                     U            U          U          U        X             U
OTHER USES
Adult-oriented businesses                                                     See Subchapter 2, Article 5
Any use prohibited by federal and/or state law                                X            X          X          X        X             X
Fortune telling and palmistry                                                 X            X          X          X        X             X
Marijuana activities, including dispensing, cultivation and delivery          X            X          X          X        X             X
                                                                              Director or Planning Commission to determine whether uses
Other principal, accessory or temporary uses not listed above                 permitted in accordance with §
                                                                              9-1-23
PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC USES
Colleges and universities, including primary and satellite campuses and       X            U          U          U        U             U
classrooms
Fire stations                                                                 P            P          P          P        P             P
Government offices and police stations                                        P            P          P          P        P             P
Helicopter pads                                                               X            X          U          U        U             X
Private elementary, intermediate and high schools                             U            U          X          U        U             U
Public flood control facilities and devices                                   P            P          P          P        P             P
Public or private kennels and animal shelters (with indoor or outdoor pet     X            X          X          U        U             X
boarding)
Public schools                                                                X            X          X          X        P             X
Public utility facilities                                                     P            P          P          P        P             P
Train, bus and taxi stations                                                  X            U          U          U        U             U
Vocational schools (e.g., barber, beauty and similar)                         X            U          U          U        U             U
RECREATION USES
Bicycle, equestrian and hiking trails                                         P            P          P          P        P             P
Bowling alleys and pool or billiard halls as a principal use                  X            U          X          X        X             U
Game machine arcades as a principal use                                       X            U          X          X        X             U
Game machines as an accessory use (four machines or more)                     U            U          X          X        X             U
Game machines as an accessory use (three machines or less)                    A            A          A          A        A             A
Health clubs, martial arts studios and dance studios, over 5,000 square foot  U            U          U          U        X             U
floor area
Health clubs, martial arts studios and dance studios, under 5,000 square foot U            U          U          U        A             U
floor area
Indoor commercial recreation centers and uses, roller hockey and other        X            U          X          U        X             U
facilities; with same types of facilities as “Outdoor” below
Indoor pistol or rifle ranges                                                 X            X          X          U        X             X
Libraries and museums                                                         U            P          P          U        P             P
Outdoor commercial recreation centers and uses, including such facilities as
miniature golf, go-karts, batting cages, kiddie rides, rock climbing and      X            U          X          X        X             U
similar attractions, lighted or unlighted
Outdoor commercial roller hockey, skateboard and “stunt” bike facilities, X            U          X          X        X             U
lighted or unlighted
Pool or billiard tables as an accessory use (three tables or less)            A            A          A          A        A             A
Private swim schools                                                          X            X          U          U        U             U
Public parks, playfields and open space; lighted or unlighted                 P            P          P          P        P             P
Tennis clubs, golf courses and similar recreational uses with both indoor and
outdoor facilities, lighted or unlighted (see also PR regulations, Subchapter X            U          X          X        X             U
2, Article 5)
RESIDENTIAL, LODGING AND CHILD CARE USES
Boarding houses, large (3 or more tenants or rented rooms)                    X            X          X          X        U             X
Boarding houses, small (2 or fewer tenants/rented rooms)                      X            X          X          X        X             X
Caretaker residences                                                          U            U          U          U        U             U
Child daycare facilities, centers and preschools as a principal use, subject
to §                                                                         U            U          U          U        U             U
9-1-45.24
Emergency shelters, subject to §                                             P            P          P          P        P             P
9-1-45.27
Group home                                                                    Permitted in accordance with §
                                                                              9-1-38
Group homes, 6 or fewer persons (excluding house manager)                     X            X          X          X        X             X
Group homes, 7 or more persons (excluding house manager)                      X            X          X          X        U             X
Hotels and motels                                                             X            U          U          U        X             U
Low barrier navigation centers                                                Permitted in accordance with §
                                                                              9-1-45.28
Managed care facilities. Property must be in the MC Overlay District per §   U            U          X          X        U             U
9-1-54.2
Multi-family dwellings, additive                                              X            X          X          X        X             U
Referral facilities                                                           X            X          X          X        U             X
Single room occupancy (SRO) hotels, subject to § 9-45.25                     X            X          X          X        U             X
Transitional and supportive housing                                           Permitted in accordance with §
                                                                              9-1-35.28
Transitional shelters                                                         X            X          X          X        U             X
RETAIL USES
Convenience stores 2 open 18 or more hours/day                                U            U          X          X        X             U
Convenience stores 2 open less than 18 hours/day                              U            P          X          X        X             P
2 Defined as retail stores under 10,000 square feet selling primarily food, beer, wine and beverage items for off-site consumption, but not
distilled spirits
Liquor stores 3 - with no consumption of alcohol on the premises              U            U          X          X        X             U
3 Defined as retail stores selling primarily beer, wine, distilled spirits and other beverages, plus some food items, all for off-site
consumption only
Outdoor vending stands (such as flower stands, hotdog stands and the like) as
a principal use, subject to §                                                U            U          U          X        X             U
9-1-45.10
Plant nurseries and garden supply stores, subject to §                       X            P          X          X        X             P
9-1-45.11
Retail stores 1, under 30,000 square foot floor area                          P            P          X          U        X             P
Retail stores 1, 30,000—60,000 square foot floor area                       U            P          X          U        X             P
Retail stores 1, over 60,000 square feet floor area                           X            U          X          U        X             U
1 Such as supermarkets, warehouse stores, discount stores, stores selling apparel, furniture, appliances, hardware, building materials (except
lumber yards) and similar stores selling merchandise to the general public
Showroom - catalog stores, without substantial on-site inventory              P            P          X          P        X             P
                                                                                                                                         
TEMPORARY USES
Christmas tree sales, subject to §                                           T            T          X          T        T             T
9-1-45.7
Construction trailers and guard offices, subject to                           T            T          T          T        T             T
9-1-45.16
Halloween pumpkin sales, subject to §                                        T            T          X          T        T             T
9-1-45.8
Produce stand, subject to §                                                  T            T          X          T        X             T
9-1-45.9
Sidewalk sales and center-wide events, subject to §                          T            T          T          T        X             T
9-1-45.12
Special outdoor events, subject to §                                         T            T          T          T        T             T
9-1-45.13
Use of relocatable building, subject to §                                    T            T          T          T        T             T
9-1-45.17
WAREHOUSING AND HEAVY COMMERCIAL USES
(Subject to §
9-1-45.11)
Central cleaning or laundry plants                                            X            U          X          U        X             X
Communication or relay facilities and/or antennas as a principal use, subject
to §                                                                         U            U          U          U        U             U
9-1-45.6. Such facilities shall be considered a principal use if not
associated with and incidental to another principal use on the premises
Contractor, public utility and similar equipment/storage yards                X            X          X          U        U             X
General warehouses, with no sales to consumers                                X            X          X          P        X             X
Lumber yards, outdoor (see retail stores for indoor lumber sales)             X            X          X          X        X             X
Mini-storage warehouses                                                       X            X          X          X        X             X
Pest control services                                                         X            X          X          U        X             X
Plumbing repair shops                                                         X            X          X          U        X             X
Wholesaling/distribution centers, with no sales to consumers                  X            X          X          P        X             X
a.   Defined as retail stores under 10,000 square feet selling primarily food, beer, wine and beverage items for off-site consumption, but not
distilled spirits.
b.   Defined as retail stores selling primarily food, beer, wine, distilled spirits and other beverages, plus some food items, all for off-
site consumption.
c.   Offices for physicians, dentists, optometrists, chiropractors, physical therapists and similar practitioners.
d.   Property must also be within AB (Adult Business) Overlay District per §
9-1-54.4.
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-42) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2011-163, § 3,
passed 5-3-2011; Ord. 2016-184, § 2, passed 10-4-2016; Ord. 2018-194, § 2,
passed 6-5-2018; Ord. 2019-197, § 3, passed 6-4-2019; Ord. 2021-210, § 31,
passed 8-3-2021; Ord. 2022-216, § 2, passed 7-19-2022; Ord. 2024-228, passed 5-
21-2024)
§ 9-1-43 NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All references to this §
9-1-43 shall include §§
9-1-43.1 through
9-1-43.4. These sections set forth standards for the development of property
within nonresidential districts, such as minimum setbacks, maximum structure
heights and minimum lot sizes.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-43) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, § 32,
passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-43.1 TABLE OF DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   Table 4.2 below and Figures 4.1 and 4.2 in §
9-1-44 set forth standards for development of property within nonresidential
districts. (See §
9-1-33.7 for setbacks for irregular-shaped lots.)
TABLE 4.2: NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
DEVELOPMENT CN           CC         CO         BP            PI
STANDARD
DISTRICT    Neighborhood Community  Office     Business Park Public
            Commercial   Commercial Commercial               Institutional
TABLE 4.2: NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
DEVELOPMENT STANDARD  CN           CC         CO         BP       PI
DISTRICT              Neighborhood Community  Office     Business Public
                      Commercial   Commercial Commercial Park     Institutional
Fences and walls      See §
                      9-1-45.2
Landscaping and open  See §
area                  9-1-45.3
Maximum structure     35           35         65*        45*      35
height (feet)
Minimum lot size      No minimum
(square feet)
          From street
          right- of-  20           20         20         20       20
          way
          From
          residential
          districts   20           20         20         20       15/20**
Minimum   and PI, PR
perimeter and OS
setbacks  Districts
(from     From
abutting  abutting
property  commercial, 0            0          0          10       0
line in   office and
feet)     industrial
          projects
          From
          interior
          property    0            0          0          0        0
          lines
          within same
          project
Screening             See §
                      9-1-45.4
Signs and parking     See Subchapter 2, Articles 6 and 7
* All minimum perimeter setbacks shall be increased one foot for every foot in
height above 35 feet (except for setbacks from interior property lines).
** Mixed-Use Town Center perimeter setbacks to residential districts and Pl, PR
and OS Districts shall be a minimum of 15 feet at any point and a minimum
average of 20 feet.
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-43.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2022-216, §
4, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 9-1-43.2 ROOF AND WALL PROJECTIONS.
   (A)   Architectural projections. The following architectural projections are
permitted to encroach into the required setbacks specified in Table 4.2 in §
9-1-43.1: roof overhangs, chimneys, awnings and canopies may encroach a maximum
of two feet into any required setback; provided such projections do not extend
over the property line. Seating windows, balconies, exterior stairways and
similar features shall not encroach into required setbacks.
   (B)   Roof projections.
      (1)   Notwithstanding §
9-1-43.3, architectural features not containing usable space, such as chimneys,
towers, gables and spires, are permitted to extend ten feet above the maximum
structure height set forth in Table 4.2 in §
9-1-43.1, if approved as part of a site development permit.
      (2)   Satellite dish or other antennas shall not extend above the maximum
structure height specified in Table 4.2 in §
9-1-43.1. (See §
9-1-45.6 for other antenna regulations.)
(Prior Code, § 9-1-43.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-43.3 MEASUREMENT OF BUILDING HEIGHT.
   (A)   (1)   Unless specifically stated otherwise, for purposes of this code,
the maximum height of buildings and other structures shall be defined as the
vertical distance from the ground to an imaginary plane above and parallel to
the ground.
      (2)   This imaginary plane shall be located at a vertical distance equal
to the maximum height for the district measured from ground level, and the
building shall not penetrate that plane.
   (B)   GROUND LEVEL shall be defined by the Director as that of the following
alternatives which results in the imaginary plane being located at the lowest
elevation above sea level:
      (1)   The finish grades at the exterior walls of an existing or proposed
building; and
      (2)   The existing grades on the site.
   (C)   The preceding definition of maximum building height is illustrated
below:
FIGURE 4.1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4349.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-43.3) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
33, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-43.4 IRREGULAR LOTS.
   (A)   The setback distances specified in §
9-1-43.1 are based on rectangular lots.
   (B)   Nonrectangular lots, lots with three sides or more than four sides and
other nonstandard lots require special measurement of setbacks in order for the
purpose of setback requirements, i.e., the separation of structures from
streets and other properties, to be achieved.
   (C)   Rules for measurement of nonstandard lots in nonresidential districts
shall be the same as those for residential districts as set forth in §
9-1-33.7.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-43.4) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-44 ILLUSTRATION OF DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
FIGURE 4.2
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: CN AND CC DISTRICTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4351.jpg]
 
FIGURE 4.3
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: CO, BP AND Pl DISTRICTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4353.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-44) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, § 34,
passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-45 SUPPLEMENTAL NONRESIDENTIAL REGULATIONS.
   All references to this §
9-1-45 shall include §§
9-1-45.1 through
9-1-45.26. These sections set forth requirements for specialized aspects of
land use in nonresidential districts such as fences and walls, sidewalk sales,
service stations and the like. These requirements are in addition to the other
regulations set forth in this article.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-45.1 PARKING AND SIGNS.
   Refer to Subchapter 2, Article 6 for parking regulations and Subchapter 2,
Article 7 for sign regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-45.2 FENCES AND WALLS.
   Fence regulations for nonresidential districts shall be the same as those
for residential districts as set forth in §
9-1-35.2.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-45.3 LANDSCAPING AND OPEN AREA.
   (A)   Landscape plans. A landscape plan shall be prepared, approved and
implemented for all development projects. Landscaping shall consist of trees,
shrubs, vines, groundcover or a combination thereof.
   (B)   Design guidelines. This section contains basic landscaping
requirements. In addition, Subchapter 2, Article 9 contains landscaping
standards and guidelines relating to project entry landscaping, pedestrian area
landscaping, tree preservation, plant selection and other items.
   (C)   Landscaping standards. Landscaping shall be installed and maintained
in accordance with the following standards.
      (1)   Height of landscaping along all streets and boundaries shall comply
with §
9-1-45.2.
      (2)   Boundary landscaping abutting arterial highways shall be provided
to a minimum average depth of 15 feet with a minimum depth of ten feet,
measured from the street right-of-way. However, along arterial highways
designated as Scenic Highways in the general plan (i.e., Crown Valley Parkway,
Alicia Parkway, La Paz Road, Moulton Parkway, Street of the Golden Lantern,
Pacific Island Drive, Camino del Avion and Niguel Road south of Crown Valley
Parkway), plus Niguel Road north of Crown Valley Parkway, landscaping shall be
provided to a minimum depth of 25 feet, measured from the curb.
Figure 4.4
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4355.jpg]
 
      (3)   Boundary landscaping abutting public streets other than arterial
highways and abutting land zoned for residential use or PR, PI or OS shall be
provided to a minimum average depth of ten feet with a minimum depth of five
feet, measured from the street right-of-way.
      (4)   Interior landscaping shall be provided over at least 5% of the
buildable project area (i.e., area of parcel remaining after deducting all
required setbacks and meeting any requirements regarding maximum lot coverage
or minimum open area). At least half that amount (minimum of 2.5%) shall be
located in parking areas. The remainder shall be located in other interior
portions of the project such as next to buildings. Boundary landscaping shall
not be credited toward the interior landscaping requirement.
Figure 4.5
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4357.jpg]
 
      (5)   All landscaped areas shall be separated from adjacent parking or
vehicular areas by a curb at least six inches higher than the parking or
vehicular area to prevent damage to the landscaped area.
      (6)   Permanent automatic irrigation facilities shall be provided for all
landscaped areas. All irrigation systems shall be maintained in proper
operating condition. Waterline breaks, head/emitter ruptures, overspray or
runoff conditions and other irrigation system failures shall be repaired
immediately.
      (7)   All landscaping shall be maintained in an orderly, attractive and
healthy condition, including proper pruning, mowing of lawns, weeding, removal
of litter, fertilizing, replacement of plants (including trees) when necessary
and regular application of appropriate quantities of water to all landscaped
areas.
      (8)   Modification to an approved landscape plan, or any significant
modification to existing landscaped areas, removal or substantial thinning of
landscaping, shall first require the review and approval of a changed plan
permit or a discretionary permit amendment as determined by the Community
Development Director.
   (D)   Mixed-Use Town Center Zoning District additional requirements.
      (1)   Mixed-Use Town Center landscape requirements. Mixed-Use Town Center
development projects shall contain an additional 10% of landscaping for the
entire buildable project area. For purposes of this section, BUILDABLE PROJECT
AREA means the horizontal area within the boundaries of a development project,
less slope areas with a ratio of 2:1 or steeper and less minimum boundary
landscape requirements.
      (2)   Active and/or passive recreation area requirements.
         (a)   Active recreation and/or passive leisure space shall be provided
for each mixed-use project containing residential uses. The required minimum
amount of qualifying space for a mixed-use project is 300 square feet per
residential unit.
         (b)   The usable open space may be common space accessible to more
than one dwelling unit or may be private space for the exclusive use of
individual units, subject to the following.
            1.   Private outdoor living area. Private usable open space at
ground level (e.g., fenced yards, patios) or above ground level (e.g.,
balconies) shall have a minimum area of 50 square feet and shall have no
dimension less than five feet. Private open space must be directly accessible
from the individual dwelling.
            2.   Common active and/or passive recreation area. Common active
and/or passive recreation areas for residents located on the ground level shall
be no less than 15 feet wide and 300 square feet in area, with slopes no
greater than 5%. Common upper-story decks shall be no less than ten by ten feet
in dimension. Roof decks shall be no less than 15 by 15 feet in dimension. No
more than 20% of the total area required for active and/or passive recreation
area may be provided on a roof.
            3.   Recreation facilities. Facilities may include swimming pools,
spas and related facilities; clubhouses; tot lots with play equipment; court
game facilities, such as tennis, basketball or racquetball; improved softball
or other playfields; fitness/gym facilities; or similar facilities for active
recreational use.
            4.   Outdoor passive leisure space. In order for outdoor passive
leisure space to qualify toward the minimum square footage requirement, these
outdoor common areas must include resident amenities, such as shaded seating
areas or dining courtyards, gathering space with outdoor barbeques, firepits
and/or fireplaces or other similar improvements to enhance the outdoor
environment of the development.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.3) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
35, passed 8-3-2021; Ord. 2022-216, § 3, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 9-1-45.4 SCREENING.
   (A)   Screening required. Screening shall be provided for all nonresidential
uses in accordance with this section. The decision-making authority may also
require screening beyond that required in this section as a condition of
approval for a development project if it determines that such measures are
necessary to mitigate adverse visual impacts created by the project.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, FENCE or WALL means any
type of fence, wall, retaining wall, sound attenuation wall, screen,
windscreen, hedge or thick growth of shrubs or trees, other than a building
wall. The terms FENCE and WALL are used interchangeably in this section to mean
any or all of the preceding structures or vegetation. HEDGE or THICK GROWTH OF
SHRUBS OR TREES means vegetation at least 42 inches high which creates a screen
blocking at least 50% of the view through the vegetation measured over a
horizontal distance of five feet or greater.
   (C)   Screening of property. Screening of property shall be installed in
accordance with the following standards.
      (1)   Height standards. All fence and wall screening shall comply with
the height standards of §
9-1-45.2.
      (2)   Abutting residential and open space areas. Screening shall be
installed along all building site boundaries where the premises abut areas
zoned for residential or open space uses. Such screening shall be sufficient to
provide adequate visual buffering as determined by the Director.
      (3)   Parking along public streets. Screening shall be installed to
shield views of parking areas from public streets. Screening walls or fences
may include open portions (tubular steel, wrought iron and the like) if the
decision-making authority determines that the desired screening of parking and
circulation areas is still achieved. Screening shall be at least three feet in
height at all points but shall be no more than three and one-half feet in
height where required for sight distance safety at entries and intersections.
FIGURE 4.6
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4359.jpg]
 
      (4)   Allowance for grade differential. In order to take into account the
effect of grade differentials on visibility, the city decision-making authority
may require increased or decreased screening than that set forth in this
section if the finished elevation of the adjacent property within five feet of
the site boundary is different from that of the building site.
FIGURE 4.7
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4361.jpg]
 
      (5)   Wall articulation. Long straight stretches of wall or fence shall
be avoided because of the resulting monotonous appearance and lack of visual
interest. Walls and fences shall be varied by the use of such design features
as offsets (i.e., jogs), open panels (e.g., containing wrought iron) at
selected locations, periodic variations in materials, texture or colors and
similar measures.
      (6)   Wall planting. Shrubs and/or vines shall be planted on one or both
sides of perimeter walls to add visual softening except where determined
infeasible or unnecessary by the decision-making authority. Plant spacing shall
be appropriate to the growth habits of the selected plant species and shall be
designed to provide interest and variety along the wall rather than creating a
complete covering of the entire wall surface. Where the decision-making
authority determines that screening is not required, walls may incorporate
tubular steel, wrought iron or other open design.
      (7)   Screening materials. Screening shall consist of one or a
combination of the following types.
         (a)   Walls. A wall shall consist of concrete, stone, brick, tile or
similar type of solid masonry material a minimum of six inches thick. Walls
shall utilize durable materials, finishes and colors consistent with project
buildings.
         (b)   Solid fences. A solid fence shall be constructed of wood or
other materials with a minimum nominal thickness of two inches and shall form
an opaque screen. Fences shall be painted or otherwise weather-treated with
colors consistent with project buildings.
         (c)   Open fences. An open weave or mesh-type fence shall be combined
with plant materials to form an opaque screen.
         (d)   Plant screens. Plant materials, when used as a screen, shall
consist of compact evergreen plants. Such planting shall be of a kind or used
in such a manner so as to provide screening with a minimum thickness of two
feet within 18 months after initial installation. Permanent automatic
irrigation shall be provided. If, 18 months after installation, plant materials
have not formed an opaque screen or if an opaque screen is not maintained, a
wall, solid fence, berms or other landscaping shall be installed.
         (e)   Berms. A berm shall not be more than 20 feet in width at the
base. It shall be constructed of earthen materials, and it shall be landscaped.
      (8)   Signs. No signs or sign supports except those specifically allowed
in Subchapter 2, Article 7 shall be permitted on any required screening.
   (D)   Screening of facilities and equipment. Facilities and equipment shall
be screened as follows.
      (1)   Storage areas. All storage, including cartons, containers,
materials or equipment, shall be screened from public view as required by §
9-1-45.11.
      (2)   Trash areas. All outdoor trash and waste bins shall be enclosed by
a solid wall not less than six feet in height in accordance with §
9-1-92.2. Decorative overhead structures such as trellises shall be integrated
into the enclosure design if the trash area is visible from higher terrain.
      (3)   Loading areas. Loading platforms and areas shall be screened from
view from adjacent streets and residential, open space and recreation areas.
      (4)   Mechanical equipment. Roof-mounted mechanical equipment, such as
air conditioning, heating or ventilating units or ducting, shall be screened
from a horizontal line of sight. Also, if the building roof is visible from
surrounding hillside areas, all roof equipment shall be screened from above.
Such screening shall be an integral part of the roof design and not appear as
an afterthought. For flat roofs, a screened enclosure behind the parapet wall
may be used if it is made to appear as an integral part of the building.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.4) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
36, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-45.5 DETACHED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Permitted accessory structures. Detached accessory structures are
permitted on nonresidential parcels containing a principal use subject to the
requirements of this section.
   (B)   Height and placement. Except as specified in division (C) below,
detached accessory structures shall not exceed 15 feet in height and shall not
be placed or constructed in the following locations:
      (1)   Within a required setback;
      (2)   Accessory structures shall be located on the rear 50% of the
building site, except that minor unenclosed accessory structures, such as
arbors, trellises, porte-cocheres, gazebos and similar minor structures, may be
located on the front 50% of the building site. The distance between the front
and rear property lines shall be the basis for determining the rear 50% of the
property;
      (3)   Where fences and walls are limited to a maximum height of three and
one-half feet as specified in §
9-1-45.2; and
      (4)   Within the panhandle portion of a panhandle building site.
   (C)   Setback reductions. The perimeter setback from abutting commercial,
office or industrial property for a detached accessory structure may be reduced
to five feet if the structure is screened from both street and public parking
area views subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   Height. The height limit for buildings which are less than ten feet
from the property line shall be ten feet.
      (2)   Screening. The accessory structure shall be screened from adjacent
properties so that there is adequate visual buffering as determined by the
Director.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.5) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-45.6 SATELLITE DISH AND OTHER ANTENNAS.
   (A)   Permits required. The following permit requirements apply to antennas
in nonresidential districts.
      (1)   All antennas require issuance of a building permit.
      (2)   Any antenna which is the principal use on a lot shall comply with
the district setback standards for main buildings and shall require a use
permit.
      (3)   Any ground-mounted antenna, which does not exceed eight feet in
height, meets the setback requirements for a main building and the screening
and color requirements of division (B) below may be permitted as an accessory
structure without a use permit. All other antennas require approval of a use
permit.
   (B)   Development standards. Antennas within nonresidential districts may be
ground-mounted or building-mounted provided the following requirements are met.
      (1)   A ground-mounted antenna which is an accessory use shall be located
within the rear yard or may be located within a side yard if not within the
required side yard setback. Ground-mounted antennas are prohibited from
exterior (street) side yards, unless not visible from the street.
      (2)   Antennas, including roof-mounted antennas, shall not exceed the
building height standards for the district in which they are located.
      (3)   All antennas shall be screened from both horizontal and vertical
line of sight. Decorative overhead structures, such as trellises, may be
required if the antenna is visible from surrounding higher terrain.
      (4)   Antennas shall be a single color that blends with the immediate
surroundings (e.g., off-white, dark green, brown, gray or black).
FIGURE 4.8
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4363.jpg]
 
FIGURE 4.9
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4365.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.6) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
37, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-45.7 CHRISTMAS TREE SALES.
   A temporary Christmas tree sales facility may be permitted subject to the
approval of a temporary use permit and the following requirements.
   (A)   The facility shall not be opened for business prior to the day after
Thanksgiving in any calendar year, and no structure shall be installed on the
site more than ten days before such opening for business.
   (B)   Such a facility shall not engage in the sale of any merchandise not
directly associated with Christmas trees and Christmas decorations.
   (C)   The applicant shall secure an electrical permit if the facility is to
be energized.
   (D)   The facility shall be removed and the premises shall be cleared of all
debris and restored to the condition existing prior to the establishment of the
facility by the January 8 following the applicable Christmas holiday. A cash
bond or other guarantee may be required to be posted prior to establishment of
the facility to ensure cleanup.
   (E)   Each facility shall comply with fire prevention standards as approved
and enforced by the Fire Chief.
   (F)   Off-street parking and vehicular access shall be provided to the
satisfaction of the Director.
   (G)   Signs shall be restricted to one banner sign per street frontage, each
sign not exceeding 32 square feet. Other signs and advertising devices, such as
pennants, flags and A-frame signs, are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.7) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
38, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-45.8 HALLOWEEN PUMPKIN SALES.
   A temporary Halloween pumpkin sales facility may be permitted subject to the
approval of a temporary use permit and the following requirements.
   (A)   The facility shall not be opened for business prior to October 1 in
any calendar year, and no structure shall be installed on the site more than
ten days before such opening for business.
   (B)   Such a facility shall not engage in the sale of any merchandise not
directly associated with pumpkins and Halloween decorations.
   (C)   The applicant shall secure an electrical permit if the facility is to
be energized.
   (D)   The facility shall be removed and the premises shall be cleared of all
debris and restored to the condition existing prior to the establishment of the
facility by the November 14 following the applicable Halloween holiday. A cash
bond or other guarantee may be required to be posted prior to establishment of
the facility to ensure cleanup.
   (E)   Each facility shall comply with fire prevention standards as approved
and enforced by the Fire Chief.
   (F)   Off-street parking and vehicular access shall be provided to the
satisfaction of the Director.
   (G)   Signs shall be restricted to one banner sign per street frontage, each
sign not exceeding 32 square feet. Other signs and advertising devices, such as
pennants, flags and A-frame signs, are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.8) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
39, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-45.9 PRODUCE STANDS.
   A temporary fresh produce sales facility may be permitted during the harvest
season subject to the approval of a temporary use permit and the following
requirements.
   (A)   A fresh produce sales facility shall be open for business only during
the season when locally grown produce is harvested and available for sale. The
temporary use permit for a fresh produce stand shall include permitted dates of
operation, up to a maximum of 90 days.
   (B)   Such a facility may not sell items not directly associated with fresh
produce.
   (C)   The applicant shall secure an electrical permit if the facility is to
be energized.
   (D)   The facility shall be removed and the premises cleared of all debris
and restored to the condition prior to the establishment of the facility by the
date indicated on the temporary use permit. A cash bond or other guarantee
shall be posted prior to establishment of the facility to ensure cleanup.
   (E)   Each facility shall comply with fire prevention standards as approved
and enforced by the Fire Chief.
   (F)   Off-street parking and vehicular access shall be provided to the
satisfaction of the Director.
   (G)   Signs shall be restricted to one banner sign per street frontage, each
sign not exceeding 32 square feet. Other signs and advertising devices, such as
pennants, flags, A-frame signs and light strings, are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.9) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-45.10 OUTDOOR VENDORS.
   (A)   Definition. Outdoor vendors include flower stands, hotdog stands, ice
cream carts and similar retail uses which utilize a movable or relocatable
stand or cart for walk-up sales. The stand or cart must be of a size and design
which does not interfere with pedestrian movement, vehicle parking or site
circulation. This section applies to outdoor venders on private property only;
for outdoor venders on public property, please refer to Title 5, Chapter 7.
   (B)   Use permit required.
      (1)   An outdoor vendor use may be established where permitted per §
9-1-42 upon approval of a use permit pursuant to §
9-1-114.
      (2)   All such uses shall comply with the following standards.
         (a)   The location of the outdoor vending use shall not interfere with
access to adjacent buildings or with pedestrian circulation. No portion of the
vending use shall be located in a parking lot, street or other area intended
for vehicular parking, access or circulation.
         (b)   The outdoor vending site shall not exceed 150 square feet. The
vending site includes all areas separated from pedestrian access and used for
vending activities, including storage.
         (c)   The operator/owner shall obtain other necessary licenses and
permits required for such activities by city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.10) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
40, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-45.11 PERMANENT OUTDOOR DISPLAY AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Purpose. This section provides regulations for outdoor display and
storage in nonresidential districts.
   (B)   Where permitted. The display and/or storage of any items outside of an
enclosed building is prohibited except where permitted in accordance with this
section, §§
9-1-42,
9-1-45.10 and
9-1-45.12, where permitted by a use permit, or where otherwise permitted by
this code.
   (C)   Incidental retail displays. Incidental outdoor displays associated
with retail businesses may be permitted in the CN and CC Districts, subject to
the following requirements.
      (1)   A use permit shall be approved per §
9-1-114 prior to the establishment of any outdoor display.
      (2)   Displays shall focus primarily on decorative items which assist in
the identification of a retail business to the public as opposed to the
presentation of merchandise for sale. For example, a bookstore’s display of
selected individual books on a small ornamental handcart might be approvable
under this section, but a table of books for sale would not. (The latter type
of display might instead be permitted under the temporary sidewalk sale
provisions of §
9-1-45.12.)
      (3)   (a)   Signs associated with the outdoor display may be allowed in
addition to the identification signs permitted in Subchapter 2, Article 7, but
only if approved as part of the use permit.
         (b)   Such signs shall:
            1.   Be integrated into the display;
            2.   Not exceed four feet in height or 12 square feet in aggregate
area; and
            3.   Be illuminated only if specifically approved as part of the
use permit. Signs shall conform to the sign design criteria of §
9-1-71.4.
      (4)   Displays shall be small-scale and pedestrian-oriented; that is, a
maximum of five feet in height and 20 square feet in area.
      (5)   Displays shall not impede pedestrian or handicap circulation or
access and shall not be located in any parking area, driveway or vehicular
circulation area.
      (6)   Displays shall be attractive in appearance and well-maintained,
using, for example, ornamental carts, pots, artwork and similar decorative
elements. Displays shall not include clothes racks, cardboard boxes, card
tables or large items, such as furniture, mattresses, washers, dryers,
refrigerators or other large appliances.
   (D)   Nurseries and similar uses. Permanent outdoor sales areas in
conjunction with retail uses such as nurseries and stores with garden supply
and similar “outdoor” departments shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Fencing. The outdoor sales and display area shall be enclosed by a
permanent wall or fence at least four feet high. The color and materials used
to fence the area shall be complementary to the color and materials used in
buildings on-site. Chain link fencing is not permitted.
      (2)   Building design. When the outdoor sales area is an extension of
retail uses within an adjacent building, it shall be enclosed by a wall which
is, by exterior appearance, an extension of the adjacent building. The design
of the building and outdoor area shall appear as a single structure.
   (E)   Equipment, lumber and storage yards. Any uncovered equipment and/or
materials storage area, including vehicle storage, shall comply with the
following regulations.
      (1)   Use permit. The establishment of any outdoor equipment or materials
storage use shall require approval of a use permit pursuant to §
9-1-114.
      (2)   Location. An equipment, material or storage yard use shall only be
located where a main building is permitted by the applicable district
regulations.
      (3)   Screening.
         (a)   Outdoor storage yards shall be screened whenever they abut the
boundary of the building site or are located between a building and an abutting
street. The screening materials shall be not less than five feet high and shall
be in compliance with §
9-1-45.2.
         (b)   Screening may consist of one or a combination of the following
types.
            1.   Walls. A wall shall consist of concrete, stone, brick, tile or
similar type of solid masonry material a minimum of four inches thick.
            2.   Solid fences. A solid fence shall be constructed of wood or
other materials to form an opaque screen.
            3.   Open fences. An open-weave or mesh-type fence shall be
combined with plant materials to form an opaque screen.
            4.   Planting. Plant materials, when used as a screen, shall
consist of compact evergreen plants. They shall be of a kind, or used in such a
manner, as to provide screening having a minimum thickness of two feet within
18 months after initial planting.
   (F)   Vehicle sales. The outdoor display and sales of vehicles shall be
subject to the approval of a use permit in accordance with §
9-1-114. The use permit shall establish standards for each such facility.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.11) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-45.12 SIDEWALK SALES AND CENTER-WIDE EVENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section provides regulations for:
      (1)   Special outdoor center-wide events within commercial center; and
      (2)   The temporary outdoor sale of merchandise by individual retail
businesses.
   (B)   Center-wide events.
      (1)   Special center-wide events include the temporary outdoor display
and sale of merchandise, arts and crafts shows, fairs, entertainment or similar
events within a commercial center.
      (2)   Commercial centers may conduct such events subject to the following
requirements.
         (a)   Events may be held up to four times a year over a maximum of
three consecutive days per event. Centers may apply for approval for each event
on an individual basis, approval of more than one event on a single application
or approval of an ongoing “special events program” specifying the dates,
activities and signage for each event throughout the year.
         (b)   Events shall be subject to approval of a temporary use permit.
Applications shall be submitted by the commercial center owner or manager.
         (c)   The application shall include provision for removal of temporary
facilities and cleanup and restoration of the activity site within 24 hours of
the conclusion of the event, unless another time limit is specified in the
temporary use permit. The city may require a cash bond or other guarantee to be
posted to ensure cleanup within the specified time limit.
         (d)   The application shall be reviewed by the Fire Chief and the
event shall comply with fire prevention standards and emergency access
requirements as specified by the Fire Chief.
   (C)   Sidewalk sales by individual businesses.
      (1)   Sidewalk or parking lot sales include the temporary outdoor display
and sale, by a retail business, of merchandise which is normally displayed
indoors at the same location as the outdoor sale. These sale events are
separate from the permanent outdoor display of merchandise provided for in §
9-1-45.11.
      (2)   In addition to the center-wide events provided for elsewhere in
this section, individual businesses may conduct sidewalk or parking lot sales.
Subject to prior written consent of the center management (if applicable) and
approval of a temporary use permit, such sales may be conducted up to six times
a year over a maximum of three consecutive days per sale. However, in no case
shall the combined total of center-wide events, plus individual sales for any
business, exceed six during any calendar year. Businesses may apply for
approval of more than one event on a single application or for each event on an
individual basis.
   (D)   Signs. Temporary signs for special center-wide events and sidewalk/
parking lot sales may be permitted as part of the temporary use permit as
follows.
      (1)   Placement. Signs shall be building-mounted, unless otherwise
approved by the Director as part of the temporary use permit.
      (2)   Center-wide events. For center-wide events, non-illuminated special
event signs advertising the special event are permitted with a total aggregate
sign area of up to 30 square feet. Signs shall be displayed no longer than ten
days per approved event.
      (3)   Individual sales. For sidewalk sales by individual businesses, non-
illuminated special event signs advertising the sale are permitted with a total
aggregate sign area of up to 12 square feet. Signs shall be displayed only on
the three days allowed for each approved sale.
      (4)   Sign copy. Special event signs shall relate only to the business
being conducted on the premises where they are placed.
   (E)   General requirements. Sidewalk sales and special center-wide events
are permitted only with approval of a temporary use permit and compliance with
the following provisions.
      (1)   The application for a temporary use permit for a sidewalk sale or a
special center-wide event shall specify the location of the temporary uses and
show provision for adequate parking, site circulation and emergency access.
      (2)   Adequate pedestrian and vehicular access shall be maintained around
merchandise or displays placed on a sidewalk, walkway or in parking areas.
      (3)   All signs and other materials placed in outdoor areas shall be
removed within 24 hours after the close of business on the last day of the
event unless otherwise specified by the Director in the temporary use permit.
The temporary use permit shall specify the event’s expiration date and the
removal date of all associated materials.
      (4)   Flood, laser or search lights are not permitted, unless approved as
part of the temporary use permit.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.12) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-45.13 SPECIAL OUTDOOR EVENTS.
   (A)   Definition. SPECIAL OUTDOOR EVENTS are events of a predominantly
noncommercial nature, including, but not limited to, pageants, fairs,
carnivals, religious or entertainment events and large community gatherings in
temporary outdoor facilities.
   (B)   General requirements. Special outdoor events are permitted in all
nonresidential districts provided the following requirements are met.
      (1)   Activities conducted on property owned by or leased to the city and
on public road rights-of-way may require an encroachment permit issued by the
Public Works Director.
      (2)   Events shall not to exceed ten consecutive days. Events recurring
more than four times in a calendar year are not considered temporary and shall
not be eligible for a temporary use permit.
   (C)   Temporary use permit for large events. A temporary use permit shall be
required for special outdoor events of 200 people or more, including spectators
and participants.
      (1)   Applications for temporary use permits shall be referred by the
Community Development Department to other affected departments or public
agencies for review and comment. Issues, including, but not limited to,
security, food and water supply, use of tents and canopies, sanitation
facilities, medical services, noise, signage, fire protection and traffic
control, shall be satisfactorily addressed by the applicant, as required by
Director, Police Chief, Fire Chief or health officer in their administration of
other city regulations. Such other regulations may require the applicant to
obtain permits, such as building, electrical, health and tent permits.
      (2)   A cash bond or other guarantee for removal of the temporary use and
cleanup and restoration of the activity site within seven days of the activity
conclusion may be required as a condition of the temporary use permit.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.13) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-45.14 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Purpose. This section provides standards for outdoor lighting which
allow adequate lighting for public safety while minimizing the adverse effects
of excessive lighting on adjacent properties and the community. Any artificial
lighting installed for any purpose shall be arranged to substantially confine
all direct illumination to the subject property and away from streets and
adjacent properties.
   (B)   Outdoor recreation uses. Any lighted outdoor recreation use shall be
subject to the provisions of §
9-1-35.14 for lighted recreational courts.
   (C)   Nonresidential uses.
      (1)   All properties zoned for nonresidential use shall be subject to the
outdoor lighting standards of this section. The regulations apply to both
security and purely decorative lighting. Outdoor lighting which complies with
the following standards shall be permitted as an accessory use. Lighting plans
shall include a photometric analysis demonstrating compliance with these
lighting intensities and shielding standards.
      (2)   Deviation from the following standards shall require approval of a
minor adjustment.
         (a)   Intensity. The proposed lighting plan shall represent a minimum
level of illumination necessary to meet the aesthetic and security needs of the
property. The lighting intensity within parking lots and adjacent areas shall
be at least 1.0 footcandle (FC) at all points but shall not exceed an average
of 3.0 FC over the entire parking lot, consistent with §
9-1-92.2.
         (b)   Height. Building-mounted lights shall be installed below the
eave line; pole or fence mounted lights shall be located no more than 24 feet
above finish grade.
         (c)   Location. Lighting shall only be installed adjacent to
buildings, walkways, driveways or activity areas (fountains, patios, seating
areas and the like) and focal landscape areas close to the building entrance or
activity area.
         (d)   Shielding. All light sources shall be shielded or recessed so
that direct glare and reflections are contained within the boundaries of the
parcel, and shall be directed downward and away from adjoining properties and
public rights-of-way. All light sources shall be designed, constructed, mounted
and maintained such that the maximum intensity of illumination, measured 20
feet beyond the project boundary, does not exceed 0.2 footcandle more than
ambient conditions.
FIGURE 4.10
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4367.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.14) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
41, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-45.15 CARETAKER RESIDENCES.
   Caretaker residences may be developed in any nonresidential district for the
exclusive use of personnel employed for the maintenance and security of the
principal use subject to the approval of a use permit pursuant to §
9-1-114 and the following standards.
   (A)   The caretaker residence shall be located in a building which complies
with all building setbacks established for the district in which it is located.
   (B)   The residence shall be no more than 800 square feet in floor area.
   (C)   The residence may be a portion of a building primarily devoted to
nonresidential uses or may be a separate building. If it is a separate
building, the location, design and materials of the residence shall be
consistent and integral with the site plan and building design for the
principal use.
   (D)   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided in addition to the
parking required for the principal use(s).
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.15) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-45.16 TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION AND GUARD OFFICES.
   Construction offices, security quarters, storage yards, large containers,
temporary fencing and similar structures on the site of an active construction
project may be conditionally permitted with a temporary use permit, subject to
the following regulations.
   (A)   Placement. The temporary structures shall not be moved onto the site
nor otherwise established until issuance of a precise grading permit or, if
there is no grading permit, issuance of the building permit.
   (B)   Removal. Any trailer or temporary building or structure shall be
removed from the site prior to the issuance of a certificate of use and
occupancy for the last new building on the site. If the associated project is
for grading only, the office shall be removed within 30 days of expiration of
the grading permit.
   (C)   Conversion. Any permanent structure or portion of a permanent
structure devoted to temporary uses shall be converted to a permitted use prior
to the issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy for the last new building
on the site.
   (D)   Use of existing building during construction. The use of an existing
lawfully established building may continue during construction or relocation of
another building on the same building site upon approval of a temporary use
permit and compliance with the following provisions.
      (1)   Prior to occupancy of a new building, the existing building shall
be brought into conformity with any additional regulation rendered applicable
by the placement of any new building on the site. Conformity shall be
accomplished by removal, reconstruction, relocation, conversion, change of use
or any combination thereof.
      (2)   The Director shall require the landowner to provide a guarantee,
which may include a bond, to ensure full compliance with the zoning regulations
upon completion of the new building or sooner if, in the Director’s opinion,
work pertaining to the completion of all facilities required by law is not
being diligently pursued.
   (E)   Utilities. The office shall be supplied with an electric meter and
sewer and water facilities.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.16) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
42, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-45.17 RELOCATABLE BUILDINGS.
   A relocatable building or trailer may be permitted to serve as any use
permitted in the applicable zoning district, subject to the approval of a
temporary use permit application and the following additional provisions.
   (A)   The temporary use permit application shall include the following:
      (1)   A description of the proposed uses and operating characteristics
for all uses on the site, both temporary and permanent;
      (2)   A plot plan showing the location of all uses and structures, both
temporary and permanent; and
      (3)   Supplementary exhibits, as required by the Director, to adequately
review the proposal, such as building elevations, landscaping, grading, access
and utility service.
   (B)   A temporary use permit for a relocatable building or trailer may be
conditionally approved and failure to comply with the required conditions shall
be grounds for the revocation of the permit.
   (C)   A cash bond for each relocatable building or trailer shall be posted
with the Director to guarantee removal of each coach from the site upon
expiration of the temporary use permit.
   (D)   A temporary use permit for a relocatable building shall be approved
for a maximum of two years from date of approval.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.17) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-45.18 VENDING MACHINES AND RECYCLING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Vending machines and reverse vending machines.
      (1)   Vending machines for the dispensing of soft drinks, bottled water,
candy and other items, and reverse vending machines for the collection of non-
hazardous household materials (e.g., cans, bottles, paper and the like) for
recycling purposes may be established as accessory uses to existing principal
uses in any nonresidential district. If located outside of a building, a use
permit, approved pursuant to §
9-1-114, shall be required for all such machines in all districts.
      (2)   All such outdoor facilities shall comply with the following
standards.
         (a)   Machines shall be located adjacent to the main building on the
site and shall not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular circulation.
         (b)   Machines shall not occupy any parking spaces required by the
principal use.
         (c)   Reverse vending machines shall be clearly signed to identify the
type of material to be deposited, operating instructions and the identity and
phone number of the operator or responsible person to call, if the machine is
inoperative. Sign area shall be limited to four square feet per machine,
located on the machine.
         (d)   Reverse vending machines shall be maintained on a daily basis
and kept free of litter, odor and other nuisances. A trash receptacle shall be
located adjacent to the machine(s) for disposal of containers used to carry
materials to the facility and materials unacceptable for recycling. Trash and
recyclables shall be collected from the recycling facility at least once every
week.
   (B)   Drop-off bins.
      (1)   Drop-off bins for the collection of non-hazardous household
materials (e.g., cans, bottles, paper and the like) for recycling purposes may
be established as an accessory use to an existing principal use in any
nonresidential district. If located outside of a building, a use permit,
approved pursuant to §
9-1-114, shall be required for drop-off bins in the CN, CC and CO Districts.
      (2)   All such outdoor facilities shall comply with the following
standards.
         (a)   The drop-off facility shall be no larger than 500 square feet,
not including space that is periodically used to remove materials or replace
containers. It shall comply with the building setbacks for the district and
shall not occupy parking spaces required by the principal use.
         (b)   The facility shall be screened from view from public streets,
primary parking areas and property zoned for residential use.
         (c)   The facility shall not obstruct pedestrian, vehicular and
emergency access.
         (d)   The containers (bins) shall be constructed and maintained with
durable waterproof and rustproof materials, covered and secured from
unauthorized entry or removal of materials when the facility is closed, and
shall be large enough to accommodate the materials collected and the collection
schedule. Any deposit or storage of materials outside of the containers is
prohibited.
         (e)   The installation shall be maintained on a daily basis and kept
free of litter, odor and other nuisances. A trash receptacle shall be located
adjacent to the drop-off facility for disposal of containers used to carry
materials to the facility and materials unacceptable for recycling. Trash and
recyclables shall be collected from the drop-off facility at least once a week.
         (f)   Facilities within 100 feet of a property zoned or occupied by
residential uses shall operate only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 7:00
p.m.
         (g)   Containers shall be clearly marked to identify the type of
materials which may be deposited; the facility shall be clearly identified with
the name and telephone number of the operator and hours of operation, and
display a notice that no material shall be left outside the recycling enclosure
or containers. Total signage shall not exceed 16 square feet and shall not be
illuminated.
   (C)   Recycling collection centers.
      (1)   Recycling collection centers may be permitted in the BP District
with approval of a use permit pursuant to §
9-1-114. Such facilities may accommodate nonhazardous recyclable materials
collection and packaging for bulk transport only. Any activity involving
hazardous materials or waste shall be subject to the provisions of §
9-1-45.22. No reprocessing or recycling of materials into new products shall be
permitted.
      (2)   All such facilities shall comply with the following standards.
         (a)   The collection center shall be screened from public view via
placement in an enclosed building or a screened outdoor yard on a site which
complies with the screening standards of §
9-1-45.4.
         (b)   The facility shall comply with the setback requirements of the
base zoning district pursuant to §
9-1-43.
         (c)   All exterior storage of materials shall be in sturdy containers
and the facility shall be secured from unauthorized entry or removal of
materials when the facility is closed. Any containers provided for after-hours
drop-off shall comply with the standards for drop-off facilities set forth in
division (B) above.
         (d)   The facility shall be maintained free of odor, litter and other
nuisances at all times.
         (e)   If the facility accommodates public drop-off of materials,
separate access routes and parking/unloading areas shall be provided for public
drop-off and for commercial truck traffic.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.18) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-45.19 TRASH AND RECYCLABLE MATERIALS STORAGE.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is intended to implement the provisions of
California Public Resources Code, §§ 42900 et seq., which requires local
jurisdictions to provide regulations governing adequate areas for collection
and loading of recyclable materials in multiple-family residential and
nonresidential development projects. This section also addresses the related
subject of common trash areas in such projects.
   (B)   Recycling containers required. In addition to standard trash
receptacles, recyclable materials receptacles of sufficient volume to meet the
needs of the project shall be provided by the following developments:
      (1)   Any new multiple-family residential with five or more units and a
common solid waste collection area;
      (2)   Any new single-family residential area with a common solid waste
collection area serving five or more units;
      (3)   Any new nonresidential project; and
      (4)   Any existing multiple-family project of five or more units, or
nonresidential project which expands by 30% or more in floor area.
   (C)   Recycling plan required. Each nonresidential development which is
required to provide recycling containers under the provisions of this section
shall submit a recycling plan to be processed in conjunction with the site
development permit pursuant to §
9-1-114. The recycling plan shall include a description of the anticipated
materials and volumes to be recycled and a description of the facilities to be
provided for collecting general refuse and recyclable materials.
   (D)   Trash enclosure required.
      (1)   Attached and multi-family residential projects with common trash
areas and nonresidential developments shall locate trash and recyclable
materials containers within a solid covered and enclosed area.
      (2)   Enclosures for trash and recycling containers shall comply with the
following standards.
         (a)   Enclosure placement.
            1.   Separate receptacles shall be provided for all required trash
and recyclable materials in all districts.
            2.   All enclosures shall be:
               a.   Located within 250 feet of all businesses or dwelling units
served by the enclosure;
               b.   Located substantially away from public view, pedestrian and
vehicle circulation areas unless determined infeasible by the decision-making
authority; and
               c.   Directly available to collection vehicles via alleys or
driveways to avoid the necessity of substantial hand carrying of containers or
hand pushing of dumpsters.
FIGURE 4.11
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4369.jpg]
 
         (b)   Enclosure design.
            1.   Enclosures shall be constructed on a concrete pad and be of an
adequate size to accommodate the containers they enclose per disposal company
standards.
            2.   Access to the containers for collection shall also meet
disposal company requirements. Enclosure walls shall be at least six feet high
and shall be made of strong durable materials consistent with the colors and
finishes of nearby buildings.
            3.   Doors shall be self-latching, metal or metal-framed and of
heavy duty construction sufficient to withstand hard usage. Interior concrete
or metal curbs shall be included to prevent damage to the enclosures walls from
dumpsters or other containers.
            4.   Enclosures shall be visually softened by means of vine and/or
shrub plantings.
            5.   Decorative overhead structures, such as trellises, shall be
integrated into the design if the enclosure is visible from higher terrain.
   (E)   Weather protection. Each enclosure or individual container shall be
designed and maintained so that deposited materials are contained during windy
periods. Enclosures or containers designated for recyclable materials which
could be damaged or be rendered unmarketable by rain or other environmental
conditions shall provide adequate protection against such conditions.
   (F)   Maintenance. Each enclosure shall be maintained to preserve its
appearance and function and to minimize litter, odor and other nuisances. Trash
and recyclables shall be collected regularly.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.19) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
43, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-45.20 NOISE CONTROL.
   Noise shall be regulated in nonresidential districts by the city’s noise
control ordinance (Title 6, Chapter 6), which provides noise control standards
for all districts in the city in order to prevent excessive sound levels which
are detrimental to the public health, welfare and safety, or which are contrary
to the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.20) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-45.21 OPERATIONAL STANDARDS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL USES.
   All uses and developed properties within any nonresidential district shall
comply with the following standards for development, operation and maintenance.
   (A)   Equipment. All ground-mounted mechanical equipment, including heating
and air conditioning units and trash receptacle areas, shall be completely
screened from surrounding properties.
   (B)   Utilities. All utility connections shall be designed to coordinate
with the architectural elements of the site so as not to be exposed except
where required by utility provider.
   (C)   Electrical disturbance, heat and cold, glare.
      (1)   No use except a temporary construction operation shall be permitted
which creates changes in temperature or direct glare, detectable by the human
senses without the aid of instruments, beyond the boundaries of the site.
      (2)   No use shall be permitted which creates electrical disturbances
that affect the operation of any equipment beyond the boundaries of the lot.
   (D)   Fire and explosive hazard.
      (1)   All storage of and activities involving flammable and explosive
materials shall be provided with adequate safety and fire fighting devices to
the specifications of the Uniform Fire Code.
      (2)   All incineration is prohibited.
      (3)   Smoke detectors shall be installed in all new construction as
required by city code.
   (E)   Radioactivity. In all nonresidential districts, the use of radioactive
materials shall be limited to measuring, gauging and calibration devices and
medical x-ray diagnostic equipment.
   (F)   Vibration. No use, except a temporary construction operation, shall be
permitted which generates inherent and recurrent ground vibration perceptible,
without instruments, at the boundary of the lot on which the use is located.
   (G)   Energy conservation. Buildings shall be located on the site to provide
adjacent buildings adequate sunlight for solar access when practical.
   (H)   Toxic materials. No land or building shall be used or occupied in any
manner which creates an unhealthful, dangerous, noxious or otherwise
objectionable condition due to the use, storage or proximity to toxic
materials.
   (I)   Liquid or solid waste.
      (1)   No discharge of liquid or solid wastes, at any point into public
sewer, private sewage system, stream, storm drain or into the ground shall be
permitted except in accordance with the standards approved by the California
Department of Health and/or specified by the sewage utility provider.
      (2)   No materials or wastes shall be deposited on any property in such
form or manner that they may be transferred off the property by natural causes
or forces, such as wind or rain.
      (3)   Any wastes which could be attractive to rodents or insects shall be
stored outdoors only in closed containers.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.21) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
44, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-45.22 HAZARDOUS WASTE AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Hazardous materials. In addition to the requirements for each zoning
district, the following requirements apply to the land uses listed in division
(B) below.
      (1)   Hazardous materials disclosure requirements. Prior to issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for any land use listed in division (A)(2) below, the
applicant shall comply with Title 6, Chapter 3, Subchapter 4 in a manner
approved by the Fire Chief.
      (2)   Hazardous waste management. Prior to issuance of a certificate of
occupancy for any land use listed in this division (A)(2), the applicant shall
provide plans or identify measures to comply with California Health and Safety
Code, §§ 25100 et seq., and California Administrative Code, Title 22 in a
manner approved by the health care agency and sewering agency.
      (3)   Underground storage tanks. Prior to issuance of a certificate of
occupancy for any land use which includes underground tanks to store any
hazardous materials, the applicant shall provide plans or identify measures to
comply with California Health and Safety Code, §§ 25280 et seq. and California
Administrative Code, Title 23 in a manner approved by the health care agency.
   (B)   Applicability. The requirements of division (A) above pertaining to
hazardous materials shall apply to the following land uses:
      (1)   Automotive and vehicle maintenance, repair or painting;
      (2)   Chemical and commercial cleaning product distribution or sales;
      (3)   Cleaners, self-service laundries and vehicle washes;
      (4)   Home improvement product, lumber and hardware sales;
      (5)   Manufacturing;
      (6)   Medical facilities;
      (7)   Metal plating;
      (8)   Mining and extraction;
      (9)   Nurseries;
      (10)   Oil and gas exploration and extraction;
      (11)   Paint and finishing product sales;
      (12)   Photo processing;
      (13)   Recreation facilities, such as golf courses, yacht clubs and
amusement parks;
      (14)   Recycling or resource recovery with potential for contact with
hazardous materials;
      (15)   Research, laboratory and testing facilities;
      (16)   Service stations;
      (17)   Transportation service facilities;
      (18)   Utilities;
      (19)   Waste disposal and treatment operations;
      (20)   Wrecking and salvage facilities; and
      (21)   Other generation of hazardous waste, including materials to be
disposed of by sanitary sewer.
   (C)   Off-site hazardous waste facilities.
      (1)   Requirements.
         (a)   Off-site hazardous waste facilities may be established in the BP
District if a use permit is approved in accordance with §
9-1-114.
         (b)   Such facilities shall be subject to the requirements of this
division (C). In addition, all such facilities shall comply with the siting
standards and approval procedures established by the county hazardous waste
management plan and shall be subject to the provisions of the California Health
and Safety Code, §§ 25135 et seq.
      (2)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the term OFF-SITE
HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY means any structures, other appurtenances or
improvements on land and all contiguous land serving more than one producer of
hazardous waste, used for the treatment, transfer, storage, resource recovery,
disposal or recycling of hazardous waste, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Incineration facilities (i.e., rotary kiln, fluid bed and the
like);
         (b)   Residual repository (i.e., receiving only residuals from
hazardous waste treatment facilities);
         (c)   Stabilization/solidification facilities;
         (d)   Chemical oxidation facilities;
         (e)   Neutralization/precipitation facilities; or
         (f)   Transfer/storage facilities.
   (D)   Authority to suspend operations approval of any hazardous waste
treatment, storage, disposal or transfer facility as a use consistent with the
purpose and intent of any zoning district shall be subject to the requirement
that continuing authority be vested in the Fire Department or Health Care
Agency to suspend operations for public safety reasons.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.22) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-45.23 SERVICE STATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Use permit required.
      (1)   All gas and service stations shall require approval of a use permit
and comply with the use and design standards of this section.
      (2)   All uses to be placed on the service station site (e.g., mini-
market, sale of alcoholic beverages and the like) must be specifically included
in the use permit approval.
   (B)   Signs. Service station signage shall be in accordance with Subchapter
2, Article 7.
   (C)   Hazardous materials. All service stations shall comply with the
requirements of §
9-1-45.22 pertaining to hazardous materials and underground storage tanks.
   (D)   Standards for service stations without repair facilities.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Permitted uses include sale of petroleum products, including
fuel and oil, related automotive accessories and similar retail uses.
         (b)   The following are specifically prohibited: sale of tires and
batteries and similar products for which necessary facilities for installation
and disposal of used materials are not present; automobile or equipment repair,
storage or renting.
         (c)   All retail uses except petroleum dispensing shall occur within a
building and all service uses shall occur in a specific location designated in
the approved use permit.
      (2)   Storage and display. All merchandise shall be stored and displayed
within the service station building.
      (3)   Screening.
         (a)   An opaque screen at least six feet in height shall be installed
along all site boundaries which abut residentially zoned properties.
         (b)   Screening along all street boundaries shall be a minimum of 36
inches high, including any site elevation difference.
         (c)   Screening shall consist of a wall, retaining walls, an earthen
berm with landscaping or any combination thereof.
         (d)   All screening shall comply with the height standards of §
9-1-45.2 pertaining to walls and fences.
FIGURE 4.12
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4371.jpg]
 
   (E)   Standards for service stations with repair facilities.
      (1)   Additional uses permitted. Permitted uses include those for service
stations without repair facilities, plus minor vehicle service and repair
(e.g., tune-up, lubrication, battery and tire sales and service). The following
uses are specifically prohibited: major repair and rebuilding, transmission
repair, auto body repair or painting, automobile or equipment storage or
renting. All retail and repair uses except petroleum dispensing shall occur
within a building and all non-repair service uses shall occur in a specific
location designated in the approved use permit.
      (2)   Storage and display. All merchandise shall be stored and displayed
within the service station building.
      (3)   Reverse mode required. All service stations which include service
bays shall be designed in the “reverse” or “backup” mode, i.e., service bay
openings oriented away from streets
      (4)   Screening. Screening requirements shall be the same as for service
stations without service bays.
   (F)   Removal of abandoned stations. Any service station which is closed for
more than 12 consecutive months shall be deemed abandoned and shall be removed
from the site at the expense of the property owner including the removal of
buildings and structures and all underground storage tanks and any necessary
site remediation due to tank leakage or other aspects of the service station
use.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.23) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
45, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-45.24 CHILD DAYCARE CENTERS.
   Child daycare centers or preschools in nonresidential districts shall
conform to the following requirements regardless of the number of children
served by the facility.
   (A)   (1)   A use permit shall be required to establish a child daycare
center in accordance with §
9-1-114.
      (2)   In addition, all facilities shall comply with this section and with
any additional requirements imposed as part of the use permit or by any other
applicable permit.
   (B)   All facilities shall be operated in accordance with state and local
health, safety and other regulations.
   (C)   Outdoor activities shall be limited to the hours between 8:30 a.m. and
7:00 p.m.
   (D)   All facilities shall provide an on-site pickup/dropoff area. In
addition, there shall be an on-site vehicle turnaround or alternatively,
separate vehicle entrance and exit points.
   (E)   All parking, signs and outdoor lighting shall comply with the
applicable regulations set forth in Subchapter 2, Articles 6 and 7 and §
9-1-45.14, respectively.
   (F)   All facilities shall comply with the development standards of the
district in which they are located, as set forth in §
9-1-43.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.24) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-45.25 SINGLE ROOM OCCUPANCY (SRO) HOTELS.
   Single room occupancy hotels (SROs) shall conform to the following
requirements.
   (A)   (1)   Occupancy shall be limited to maximum two persons per unit.
      (2)   Minimum unit sizes (not including toilet compartment) shall be:
         (a)   One person: 150 square feet; and
         (b)   Two persons: 175 square feet.
   (B)   Each SRO unit shall be provided with the following minimum amenities:
      (1)   Kitchen sink with garbage disposal;
      (2)   A toilet and sink located in a separate room within the unit that
is a minimum 20 square feet;
      (3)   One closet per person; and
      (4)   Telephone and cable TV hookups.
   (C)   If full bathrooms are not provided in each unit, shared showers shall
be provided on each floor at a ratio of one per seven occupants or fraction
thereof on the same floor, with doors lockable from the inside.
   (D)   If full kitchens are not provided in each unit, shared kitchen
facilities shall be provided on each floor consisting of a range, sink with
garbage disposal and refrigerator.
   (E)   If laundry facilities are not provided in each unit, common laundry
facilities shall be provided, with one washer and one dryer for every 25 units
for the first 100 units and one washer and one dryer for every 50 units over
100.
   (F)   Elevators shall be required for SROs of two or more stories.
   (G)   A manual fire alarm system and a fully automatic fire suppression
system, including a central monitoring system, alarm and fire annunciator,
shall be designed and installed to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.25) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-45.26 BUS STOP BENCHES AND SHELTERS.
   The erection, placement, construction and maintenance of bus benches and bus
shelters are regulated by §§
7-1-120 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45.26) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-45.27 EMERGENCY SHELTERS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The overall design, construction, appearance,
operation and maintenance of the emergency shelter facility should provide an
environment that is safe, secure, functional and compatible with the
surrounding community.
   (B)   Requirements. The emergency shelter shall comply with the following.
      (1)   Structure. The structure in which and the lot on which an emergency
shelter is established must comply with all standards that apply to a structure
and lot in the same zone, unless preempted by state law.
      (2)   Emergency shelter permit. A ministerial, streamlined administrative
permit is required to operate an emergency shelter under this section. The
applicant must complete the form provided by the city and pay the fee to cover
the city’s cost of processing the application and administering the permit
program as established by Council resolution.
      (3)   Maximum number of persons/beds. The shelter may serve no more than
ten persons per night, unless state law requires a different limitation greater
than ten, in which case the shelter may serve no more than the number of
persons required by state law.
      (4)   Parking ratio. Subject to California Government Code, § 65583(a)(4)
(A)(ii), on-site parking shall be supplied at a ratio of not less than one
space for every employee in the largest shift.
      (5)   Management and operational standards. Emergency shelters shall be
managed and operated in conformance with the following objective standards.
         (a)   No shelter is permitted within 300 feet of another.
         (b)   No resident may stay for more than 180 nights in a calendar
year.
         (c)   The emergency shelter may only operate between 5:00 p.m. and 8:
00 a.m. daily.
         (d)   The emergency shelter shall provide the following mandatory
facilities: a separate interior intake area of no less than 250 square feet, an
exterior on-site waiting area of no less than 200 square feet and screened from
all public right-of-way areas with landscaping to the extent feasible, office
areas for administrative purposes, restrooms and general storage.
         (e)   Outdoor lighting shall be provided in active pedestrian areas,
including sidewalks, pathways and driveways. All lighting must be stationary
and permanent. Outdoor lighting must otherwise comply with all applicable
general standards set forth in §
9-1-45.14.
         (f)   On-site facility management shall include the following.
            1.   The facility shall prepare and file a management plan with the
city that includes operational rules and standards, including, but not limited
to, provisions for staff training; neighborhood outreach; screening of
residents; eligibility and admission procedures; operating schedule; rules
regarding smoking, access to the facility, visitors and guests; and a written
policy outlining the consequences of rules and violations.
            2.   There shall be at least one qualified on-site manager and one
security guard for every ten occupants during all hours when the emergency
shelter is in operation. The on-site manager shall have the authority to
enforce the management plan and all rules set forth therein, and to ensure
compliance with all development and management standards.
            3.   The facility shall clearly post written eligibility and
admission policies and procedures as well as dates, times and services
available, and shall make a copy available for inspection by the city or any
member of the public upon request.
(Ord. 2024-228, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 9-1-45.28 LOW BARRIER NAVIGATION CENTERS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to comply with California
Government Code, §§ 65660 et seq. regarding low barrier navigation centers
(hereafter referred to as “LBNCs”, and each singularly an “LBNC”).
   (B)   Allowed zones. LBNCs that comply with the provisions of division (C)
below are permitted by right in areas that are zoned for mixed use and in
nonresidential zones that permit multi-family uses.
   (C)   Operational and development standards. LBNCs must comply with all of
the following.
      (1)   Structure. The structure in which and the lot on which an LBNC is
established must comply with all standards that apply to a structure and lot in
the same zone, unless preempted by state law.
      (2)   Streamlined administrative review procedures. A streamlined
administrative LBNC permit is required to establish or operate an LBNC. An
application for an LBNC permit is reviewed and processed ministerially, without
discretionary review or a hearing. The Director of Community Development, or
the Director’s designee, will notify an applicant whether the application is
complete within 30 days of submittal. Action on the application be taken within
60 days of when the application is determined to be complete.
         (a)   Separation. No LBNC may be established or operated at any
location that is less than 300 feet from another LBNC or emergency shelter.
         (b)   Operational services. As required by California Government Code,
§ 65662, each LBNC must satisfy each of the following:
            1.   It offers services to connect people to permanent housing
through a services plan that identifies services staffing;
            2.   It links to a coordinated entry system, so that staff in the
interim facility or staff who co-locate in the facility may conduct assessments
and provide services to connect people to permanent housing. COORDINATED ENTRY
SYSTEM means a centralized or coordinated assessment system developed pursuant
to §§ 576.400(d) or 578.7(a)(8), as applicable, of Title 24 of C.F.R., as those
sections read on January 1, 2020, and any related requirements, designed to
coordinate program participant intake, assessment and referrals;
            3.   It complies Chapter 6.5 (commencing with § 8255) of Division 8
of the California Welfare and Institutions Code; and
            4.   It has a system for entering information regarding client
stays, client demographics, client income and exit destination through the
local homeless management information system as defined by 24 C.F.R. § 578.3.
         (c)   On-site personnel. There shall be at least one qualified on-site
manager and one security guard for every ten occupants during all hours when
the LBNC is in operation. The on-site manager shall have the authority to
enforce the management plan and all rules set forth therein, and to ensure
compliance with all development and management standards.
         (d)   Maximum number of persons/beds. The LBNC may serve no more than
ten persons per night unless state law requires a different limitation greater
than ten, in which case the LBNC may serve no more than the number of persons
required by state law.
   (D)   Sunset.
      (1)   Subject to division (E)(2) below, this section remains in effect
until January 1, 2027, and as of that date is repealed.
      (2)   If the Legislature amends California Government Code, § 65668 to
extend the effective date of Government Code, §§ 65660 et seq., then this
section remains in effect until the date on which California Government Code,
§§ 65660 et seq. is repealed.
(Ord. 2024-228, passed 5-21-2024)
§§ 9-1-46—9-1-49 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL PURPOSE REGULATIONS **
§ 9-1-50 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   All references to §
9-1-50 include §§
9-1-50.1 through
9-1-50.6. These sections set forth the purpose and intent of each of the
special purpose districts and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-50) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-50.1 PR PARKS AND RECREATION DISTRICT.
   Purpose and intent: to provide for the development and preservation of
public and private parks and associated recreation facilities within open space
areas.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-50.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-50.2 OS OPEN SPACE DISTRICT.
   Purpose and intent: to preserve and protect open space areas for the
purposes of passive recreation, visual enhancement and resource conservation.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-50.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-50.3 MC MANAGED CARE OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   Purpose and intent: to provide for and regulate specialized housing
providing a range of managed care to meet the physical and social needs of
senior citizens and persons requiring specialized care or assistance.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-50.3) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-50.4 FP FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   Purpose and intent: to protect life and property from flood flows and to
establish criteria for land use consistent with state law and with the criteria
promulgated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-50.4) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-50.5 ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   Purpose and intent: as set forth in §
9-1-54.4(A).
(Prior Code, § 9-1-50.5) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-50.6 FUEL MODIFICATION REGULATIONS.
   Purpose and intent: to limit danger to life and property from wild land
fires by reducing combustible vegetation and imposing additional construction
standards for areas at risk.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-50.6) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-51 TYPES OF SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTRICTS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Base districts. The PR and OS Districts are base districts designed to
provide for park, recreation and open space land uses.
   (B)   Overlay districts. The MC and FP Districts are overlay districts.
These overlay districts are to be used in combination with a base district
(such as RS, CC, PR, OS and the like) in order to regulate certain special
aspects of land use in the interests of public safety and environmental
protection. In cases where there is a conflict between the regulations of an
overlay district and its underlying base district, the overlay district
regulations shall control.
   (C)   Overlay zoning designations. When an overlay district is used, the
zoning designation shall consist of the base district symbol followed by the
applicable overlay district symbol(s) enclosed in parentheses. For example: RS
(MC) (FP).
(Prior Code, § 9-1-51) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-52 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Development permits required. Table 5.1 below specifies whether a use
or structure is permitted within a zoning district. In most cases, development
to establish a land use requires approval of a site development permit and/or
other permits as set forth in Subchapter 2, Article 11.
   (B)   Table of permitted uses.
      (1)   Table 5.1, “Permitted uses in special purpose districts”, below
specifies those uses and structures which are permitted within each special
purpose district.
      (2)   The letters in the columns beneath the district designations mean
the following.
         (a)   P. The use is permitted as a principal use within the district.
         (b)   A. The use is permitted only if accessory to the principal use
on the site.
         (c)   U. The use is permitted as a principal or accessory use if a use
permit is approved.
         (d)   T. The use is permitted on a temporary basis if a temporary use
permit is approved.
         (e)   X. The use is prohibited in the district.
   (C)   Compatibility with base district uses. Overlay districts shall be
located on the official zoning map only in areas where the land uses permitted
by the overlay district are compatible with existing uses in the area where the
overlay is applied.
   (D)   Exemption. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this
section is not intended to apply to the retail sale by delivery of medicinal
cannabis as defined and regulated under Senate Bill 1186, known as the
“Medicinal Cannabis Patients’ Right of Access Act”.
TABLE 5.1. PERMITTED USES IN SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTRICTS.
LAND USE BASE DISTRICTS                        OVERLAY DISTRICTS
         PR Parks and Recreation OS Open Space MC Managed Care FP Floodplain
TABLE 5.1. PERMITTED USES IN SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTRICTS.
LAND USE                                          BASE DISTRICTS   OVERLAY DISTRICTS
                                                  PR Parks   OS    MC      FP
                                                  and        Open  Managed Floodplain
                                                  Recreation Space Care
ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
Fences and walls, subject to §                   A          A     *       *
9-1-35.2
Parking lots and other parking facilities         A          A     *       *
Public restrooms                                  A          A     *       *
Satellite dish and other antennas, subject to §  U          U     *       *
9-1-45.6
Signs, subject to Subchapter 2, Article 7         A          A     *       *
OPEN SPACE AND RECREATIONAL USES
Bicycle, equestrian and hiking trails             P          P     *       *
Clubhouses and community centers, pools and       P          X     *       *
cabañas
Libraries and/or museums                          U          X     *       *
Noncommercial health clubs                        U          X     *       *
Passive open space                                P          P     *       *
Public parks, playfields and open space; lighted  P          X     *       *
or unlighted
Tennis clubs, golf courses, country clubs and
similar recreational uses with both indoor and    U          X     *       *
outdoor facilities, lighted or unlighted
Tennis courts and other game courts on public or  P          X     *       *
common lots
OTHER USES
Adult-oriented businesses, subject to §          X          X     N/A     N/A
9-1-54.4 **
Any use prohibited by federal and/or state law    X          X     X       X
Managed care projects, subject to §              X          X     ***     ***
9-1-54.2 ***
Marijuana activities, including dispensing,       X          X     N/A     N/A
cultivation and delivery
                                                  Director or Planning Commission to
Other principal, accessory or temporary uses not  determine whether use is permitted
listed above                                      in accordance with §
                                                  9-1-23
Public utility and public flood control           P          P     *       *
facilities and devices
Residential, commercial, office and industrial    X          X     *       *
uses
Vehicular and pedestrian accessways               U          U     *       *
TEMPORARY USES
Special outdoor events, subject to §             T          T     *       *
9-1-45.13
*   As permitted in the underlying base district, subject to the additional
requirements of the overlay district.
**   Adult-oriented businesses are permitted only with approval of an adult-oriented
business regulatory permit per §§
5-1-11 et seq.
***   Managed care projects are permitted only with the “MC” overlay designation and
approval of a use permit.
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-52) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2011-163, § 3,
passed 5-3-2011; Ord. 2016-184, § 2, passed 10-4-2016; Ord. 2021-210, § 46,
passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-53 SPECIAL PURPOSE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   Table 5.2 below contains standards for development of property within
special purpose districts:
TABLE 5.2: SPECIAL PURPOSE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
DEVELOPMENT STANDARD BASE DISTRICTS             OVERLAY DISTRICTS
                     PR Parks and OS Open Space MC Managed Care FP Floodplain
                     Recreation
TABLE 5.2: SPECIAL PURPOSE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
DEVELOPMENT STANDARD     BASE DISTRICTS             OVERLAY DISTRICTS
                         PR Parks and OS Open Space MC Managed FP Floodplain
                         Recreation                 Care
Maximum structure height 35           35            *          *
(feet)
Minimum lot size (square No minimum
feet)
          From street    20           20            *          *
          right-of-way**
Minimum   From
perimeter residential    20           20            *          *
setbacks  districts
(from     From
abutting  commercial,
property  office,
line)     industrial and 10           10            *          *
          public-
          institutional
          districts
* As provided in the applicable base district, subject to the additional
requirements of the overlay district
** Minimum landscaped setback from any scenic highway curbline = 25 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-53) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-54 SUPPLEMENTAL SPECIAL PURPOSE REGULATIONS.
   All references to §
9-1-54 shall include §§
9-1-54.1 through
9-1-54.5. These sections set forth requirements for specialized aspects of land
use in areas regulated by this article, such as flood and fire hazard reduction
measures, adult-oriented businesses and the like. These requirements are in
addition to the other regulations set forth in this article.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-54) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-54.1 PARKS AND RECREATION AND OPEN SPACE DISTRICTS.
   The permitted uses and development standards for the PR Parks and Recreation
and the OS Open Space Districts are set forth in §§
9-1-52 and
9-1-53. Where the two districts are adjacent, the boundaries between the two on
the official zoning map shall be considered approximate in order to provide
flexibility for the placement of open space and recreational areas and
facilities.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-54.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-54.2 MC MANAGED CARE OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Boundaries of MC overlay district. The boundaries of the MC Overlay
District are as shown on the official zoning map. The MC Overlay District may
be applied only in combination with the RM Multi-Family, CN Neighborhood
Commercial, CC Community Commercial and PI Public Institutional Districts.
   (B)   Locational criteria. The MC District shall be applied as an overlay
within the preceding base districts, only to properties or areas where managed
care projects will be compatible with surrounding uses in terms of noise,
traffic, visual impacts, living environment for managed care residents and the
ability of nearby nonresidential uses to carry on normal activities necessary
to their viability.
   (C)   Applicability.
      (1)   The MC Overlay District is intended to provide for specialized
housing which offers a range of managed care to meet the physical and social
needs of senior citizens and persons requiring specialized care or assistance.
      (2)   “Managed care” projects or facilities include the following.
         (a)   Assisted living facilities: facilities providing care on a
monthly basis or longer which are the primary residences of the people served.
Such facilities provide services to residents, such as the following: dining,
housekeeping, security, medical, transportation and recreation. Any commercial
services provided are for the exclusive use of the occupants of the facility.
Such facilities may be located in more than one building and/or on contiguous
parcels within the building site.
         (b)   Convalescent hospitals: facilities licensed by the California
Department of Health Services which provide bed and ambulatory care for seven
or more patients with postoperative convalescent, chronic illness or dietary
problems and persons unable to care for themselves, including persons
undergoing psychiatric care and treatment both as inpatients and outpatients,
but not including persons with contagious diseases or afflictions. A
“convalescent hospital” may also be known as a nursing home, convalescent home,
rest home or home for the aged.
         (c)   Residential care facilities for the elderly: facilities defined
in the California Health and Safety Code, § 1569.2, plus Alzheimer’s care
facilities.
   (D)   Use permit required. Managed care projects within the MC Overlay
District shall require approval of a use permit by the Planning Commission in
accordance with §
9-1-114.
   (E)   Requirements. Managed care projects shall meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   The housing facility shall be specially designed to provide the
care described in division (C) above and to meet the physical and social needs
of senior citizens and persons requiring specialized care or assistance.
      (2)   The housing facility shall provide a useable multi-purpose room
where communal activities, including, but not limited to, dining may be
conducted.
      (3)   The housing facility shall provide emergency alert systems in each
unit to notify the on-site staff that assistance is needed.
      (4)   A housing facility staff member shall be on-site at all times to
assist residents in emergencies.
      (5)   The facility management shall coordinate social services for
residents which includes meals and transportation. The service may be provided
by the facility management or an outside agency.
      (6)   The on-site facility management shall maintain current records
pertaining to the resident’s doctor and emergency contacts.
      (7)   All managed care projects located within the MC Overlay District
shall comply with the development standards of the base zoning district and
shall comply with the design guidelines of Subchapter 2, Article 9.
      (8)   Projects proposed within the MC Overlay District shall include a
parking analysis to determine the parking demand for the specific project.
   (F)   Local park code exemption. Managed care projects located within the MC
Overlay District are exempt from the regulations set forth in the city’s local
park code.
   (G)   Use classification. Managed care projects shall not be considered a
residential use for the purpose of allocating dwelling units within the land
use element of the general plan.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-54.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
47, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-54.3 FP FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Boundaries of FP Overlay District. The FP District shall include all
areas within the city that are designated as “special flood hazard areas
inundated by 100-year flood” on the flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) provided
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These include the “A”, “AE”,
“AH”, “AO” and “A99” flood hazard zones. The boundaries of the FP District are
as shown on the official zoning map.
   (B)   Prohibition of construction in floodways. Floodway areas shown on FIRM
maps are special flood hazard areas which carry high velocity flood waters,
debris and erosion potential. Therefore, except for necessary public
improvements, no fill, structures or other development shall be permitted
within floodways.
   (C)   Flood hazard reduction requirements. The following flood hazard
reduction measures shall be required of all construction within the FP
District.
      (1)   Impact on 100-year flood elevations. New construction shall not
increase the water surface elevation of the projected 100-year flood more than
one foot at any point. Also, new construction shall not create nor exacerbate
erosive velocities within special flood hazard areas. The city may require
certification by a registered professional engineer that these requirements are
met.
      (2)   Finish floor elevation. The finish floor elevation of the lowest
floor of all new buildings shall be at least one foot above the 100-year or
base flood elevation shown on the FIRM map. If no base flood elevation is shown
on the FIRM map, the city may require certification by a registered
professional engineer that the finish floor elevation requirement is satisfied.
      (3)   Anchoring. All new structures shall be anchored to prevent
collapse, flotation or lateral movement from hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loading.
      (4)   Water and sewer systems. All new and replacement water supply and
sanitary sewer systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration
offload waters into the system and discharge from systems into flood waters.
      (5)   Electrical, plumbing and heating systems. All new and replacement
electrical, plumbing and heating equipment shall be designed and located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.
      (6)   Drainage. On slopes, adequate drainage paths shall be provided to
guide flood waters around and away from proposed structures.
   (D)   Permit procedures.
      (1)   Proposed construction within the FP District shall require approval
of a site development permit in accordance with §
9-1-114 and any other permits required by the base district regulations.
      (2)   In addition, the following requirements shall be satisfied.
         (a)   Plans and studies. Site development permit applications shall be
accompanied by detailed studies and plans sufficient to show to the
satisfaction of the Public Works Director that proposed structures are safe
from flood flows, that there will be no resulting increase in base flood
elevation and that all other requirements of division (C) above have been or
will be satisfied.
         (b)   Requirements of other public agencies. The application shall
include evidence of compliance with applicable requirements of federal and
other agencies, such as the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the County Flood
Control District.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-54.3) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-54.4 AB ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. It is the intent of this section to prevent
community-wide adverse economic impacts, increased crime, decreased property
values and the deterioration of neighborhoods which can be brought about by the
concentration of adult-oriented businesses in close proximity to each other or
proximity to other incompatible uses such as schools for minors, churches and
residentially zoned districts or uses. The City Council finds that it has been
demonstrated in various communities that the concentration of adult-oriented
businesses causes an increase in the number of transients in the area, and an
increase in crime and, in addition to the effects described above, can cause
other businesses and residents to move elsewhere. It is, therefore, the purpose
of this section to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the
concentration of adult-oriented businesses or their close proximity to
incompatible uses, while permitting the location of adult-oriented businesses
in certain areas.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   Establishment of an adult-oriented business. As used herein, TO
ESTABLISH AN ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS shall mean and include any of the
following:
         (a)   The opening or commencement of any adult-oriented business as a
new business;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult-
oriented business, to any adult-oriented business defined herein;
         (c)   The addition of any of the adult-oriented businesses defined
herein to any other existing adult-oriented business; or
         (d)   The relocation of any such adult-oriented business.
      (2)   Specified anatomical areas. As used herein, SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL
AREAS shall mean and include any of the following:
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human:
            1.   Genitals or pubic region;
            2.   Buttocks; and
            3.   Female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; and
         (c)   Any device, costume or covering that simulates any of the body
parts included in divisions (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)(b) above.
      (3)   Specified sexual activities. As used herein, SPECIFIED SEXUAL
ACTIVITIES shall mean and include any of the following, whether performed,
directly or indirectly, through clothing or other covering:
         (a)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breast;
         (b)   Sex acts, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral
copulation or sodomy;
         (c)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; and
         (d)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
other activities described in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) above.
      (4)   Adult-oriented businesses. As used herein, ADULT-ORIENTED
BUSINESSES means any one of the following.
         (a)   Adult arcade. The term ADULT ARCADE, as used in this section, is
an establishment where, for any form of consideration, one or more still or
motion picture projectors, or similar machines, for viewing by five or fewer
persons each, are used to show films, computer generated images, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions 30% or
more of the number of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
         (b)   Adult bookstore. The term ADULT BOOKSTORE, as used in this
section, is an establishment that has 30% or more of its stock in books,
magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or of photographs, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, tapes, records or other form of
visual or audio representations which are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities and/
or specified anatomical areas, or of adult merchandise.
         (c)   Adult cabaret. The term ADULT CABARET, as used in this section,
means a nightclub, restaurant or similar business establishment which:
            1.   Regularly features live performances which are distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis upon the display of specified anatomical areas
or specified sexual activities;
            2.   Which regularly features persons who appear semi-nude; and/or
            3.   Shows films, computer generated images, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions 30% or more of the number
of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
         (d)   Adult hotel/motel. The term ADULT HOTEL/MOTEL, as used in this
section, means a hotel or motel or similar business establishment offering
public accommodations for any form of consideration which:
            1.   Provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions,
films, computer generated images, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or
other photographic reproductions 30% or more of the number of which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and
            2.   Rents, leases or lets any room for less than a six-hour
period, or rents, leases or lets any single room more than twice in a 24-hour
period.
         (e)   Adult merchandise store. The term ADULT MERCHANDISE STORE, as
used in this section, is an establishment for which 30% or more of its
merchandise is adult-oriented merchandise.
         (f)   Adult motion picture theater. The term ADULT MOTION PICTURE
THEATER, as used in this section, is a business establishment where, for any
form of consideration, films, computer generated images, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions are shown, and 30% or
more of the number of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
         (g)   Adult theater. The term ADULT THEATER, as used in this section,
means a theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar establishment which, for
any form of consideration, regularly features live performances which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the display of specified
anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
         (h)   Modeling studio. The term MODELING STUDIO, as used in this
section, means a business which provides, for pecuniary compensation, monetary
or other consideration, hire or reward, figure models who, for the purposes of
sexual stimulation of patrons, display “specified anatomical areas” to be
observed, sketched, photographed, painted, sculpted or otherwise depicted by
persons paying such consideration. MODELING STUDIO does not include schools
maintained pursuant to standards set by the California Board of Education.
MODELING STUDIO, further, does not include a studio or similar facility owned,
operated or maintained by an individual artist or group of artists, and which
does not provide, permit or make available “specified sexual activities”.
      (5)   Adult-oriented merchandise. The term ADULT-ORIENTED MERCHANDISE
shall mean sexually-oriented implements, paraphernalia or novelty items, such
as, but not limited to: dildos, auto sucks, sexually-oriented vibrators, benwa
balls, inflatable orifices, anatomical balloons with orifices, simulated and
battery operated vaginas and similar sexually-oriented devices which are
designed or marketed primarily for the stimulation of human genital organs or
sadomasochistic activity or distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas”.
      (6)   Church. The term CHURCH, as used in this section, is a structure
which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
      (7)   Distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon. As used in this
subchapter, the term DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN EMPHASIS UPON shall
mean and refer to the dominant or essential theme of the object described by
such phrase. For instance, when the phrase refers to films “which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon” the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, the
films so described are those whose dominant or predominant character and theme
are the depiction of the enumerated sexual activities or anatomical areas. See
Pringle v. City of Covina (1981) 115 Cal. App. 3d 151.
      (8)   Regularly features. The term REGULARLY FEATURES, with respect to an
adult theater or adult cabaret, means a regular and substantial course of
conduct. The fact that live performances which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis upon the display of specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities occurs on two or more occasions within a 30-day
period, three or more occasions within a 60-day period or four or more
occasions within a 180-day period shall, to the extent permitted by law, be
deemed to be a regular and substantial course of conduct.
      (9)   Park. The term PARK, as used in this section, means the areas and
facilities of parks that are used by children for recreational activities,
including, but not limited to, baseball, softball and soccer fields; other
areas used for playing fields; basketball and volleyball courts; tot lots with
playground equipment; similar facilities; and hiking and walking trails.
      (10)   School. The term SCHOOL, as used in this section, is any child or
daycare facility, or an institution of learning for minors, whether public or
private, offering instruction in those courses of study required by the
California Education Code and maintained pursuant to standards set by the
California Board of Education. This definition includes a nursery school,
kindergarten, elementary school, middle or junior high school, senior high
school or any special institution of education, but it does not include a
vocational or professional institution of higher education, including a
community or junior college, college or university.
      (11)   Semi-nude. SEMI-NUDE means a state of dress in which clothing
covers no more than the genitals, pubic region, buttocks, areola of the female
breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
   (C)   Zoning and minimum proximity requirements.
      (1)   No adult-oriented business shall be established or located in any
zoning district, zone or area in the city, except for commercially-zoned areas
north of Aliso Creek Road and west of Moulton Parkway and except for those
areas designated for commercial and industrial uses in planning areas A13, A14,
B5 and U1 of the Laguna Niguel Planned Community. Notwithstanding the previous
sentence, no adult-oriented business shall be established on the parcel
identified as 28100 and 28150 Cabot Road and otherwise known as the Mission
Equities Restaurant site which is in planning area B5 of the Laguna Niguel
Planned Community.
      (2)   In addition to the zoning requirements set forth herein, no adult-
oriented business shall be established or located within certain distances of
certain specified land uses or zones as set forth below.
         (a)   No such business shall be established or located within 1,000
feet of any other adult-oriented business.
         (b)   No such business shall be established or located within 500 feet
of any existing residential zone or use.
         (c)   No such business shall be established or located within 1,000
feet of any existing park, church or school utilized by minors.
         (d)   The distances set forth above shall be measured as a radius from
the primary entrance of the adult-oriented business to the property lines of
the property so zoned or used without regard to intervening structures, except
as for parks, the distances shall be measured to the location of the active
areas of the parks.
      (3)   No adult-oriented business shall be established, located, operated
or maintained in any zoning district, zone or area in which such businesses are
allowed unless and until the permits for such businesses that are required by
Title 5, Chapter 5 (§§ 5-5-11 et seq.) have been obtained.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-54.4) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-54.5 FUEL MODIFICATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. The fuel modification regulations set forth in this
section shall apply whenever a fuel modification plan has been required as a
condition of development approval or through other requirements.
   (B)   Review requirements. Fuel modifications plans, and revisions to fuel
modification plans, shall be reviewed and approved by the Fire Authority and
Director.
   (C)   Fuel modification requirements. Areas where fuel modification is
required shall consist of the following fuel modification zones:
      (1)   A substantially flat “setback zone” with no combustible
construction;
      (2)   Beyond the setback zone, a permanently landscaped and irrigated
“wet zone”; and
      (3)   Beyond the wet zone, one or more “thinning zones” in which natural
vegetation is thinned and dead or dying vegetation is removed.
   (D)   No encroachment into fuel modification zones. Fuel modification zones
established on an approved fuel modification plan shall have the same force and
effect as regulations set forth in the text of this zoning code.
      (1)   No structure shall be placed within any fuel modification zone,
except approved fencing, unless a minor adjustment is approved in accordance
with §
9-1-114 for encroachment.
      (2)   If such a minor adjustment is approved, such conditions of approval
shall be imposed as may be deemed necessary to mitigate wild land fire hazard.
Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, those listed under
division (J) below.
      (3)   In addition to the required findings set forth in §
9-1-114, approval of a minor adjustment shall require a finding by the Director
that the adjustment is necessary for the preservation of a substantial property
right possessed by other properties in the same vicinity and zoning district
and otherwise denied to the subject property.
   (E)   Location of fuel modification zones. In all cases, fuel modification
zones shall be located within the tract or other property being protected.
Further, where feasible, “wet” and “thinning” zones shall be located on common
lots owned by the applicable homeowners association or similar entity. In
addition, the substantially flat “setback” zones are encouraged to also be
located on such common lots as opposed to individual private lots.
   (F)   Width of fuel modification zones. The width of fuel modification zones
shall be established on each fuel modification plan as required by individual
site conditions. The combined width of all zones described under division (B)
above shall be a minimum of 120 feet. Exception: modifications to this width
standard may be permitted with the approval of a minor adjustment and review
and approval by the Fire Authority. If such minor adjustment is approved,
conditions of approval necessary to mitigate wildfire hazard shall be imposed.
Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, those listed under
division (J) below.
   (G)   Preparation of fuel modification plans. Fuel modification zones, plant
materials, thinning measures and other details shall be shown on individual
fuel modification plans approved for each affected subarea. Fuel modification
plans shall be prepared by a licensed landscape architect.
   (H)   Fuel modification maintenance program. A fuel modification maintenance
program providing for continuous maintenance of fuel modification areas shall
be prepared and implemented. The maintenance program shall be included as part
of each fuel modification plan and shall include the maintenance of irrigation
systems and landscaping, the periodic re-thinning of vegetation and other
measures needed to keep fuel modification zones in a fire safe condition.
   (I)   Fuel modification plan approval.
      (1)   A preliminary fuel modification plan meeting the requirements of
this section shall be approved by both the Fire Authority and the Community
Development Director prior to the first discretionary action on the project.
      (2)   A final fuel modification plan shall be approved by both the Fire
Authority and the Community Development Director as being in substantial
compliance with the preliminary fuel modification plan and with this section
prior to issuance of a grading permit or prior to issuance of a building permit
if there is no grading permit.
      (3)   Fuel modification measures shall be completed to the satisfaction
of the Fire Authority prior to issuance of a building permit.
      (4)   Proposed amendments to fuel modification plans shall be reviewed
and approved in the same manner as the original plan.
      (5)   Fire hazard reduction measures in addition to those of this section
may be required as conditions of approval of any project or any fuel
modification plan.
   (J)   Alternate construction methods.
      (1)   Construction methods to reduce fire hazards may be required within
fire hazard areas if the city determines in an individual case that:
         (a)   The measures are necessary as conditions of approval of a fuel
modification plan or minor adjustment in order to provide adequate reduction of
wild land fire danger; and/or
         (b)   If no adequate fuel modification plan has been implemented for
the affected area.
      (2)   Such possible construction methods may include, but are not limited
to, the following:
         (a)   Excluding openings, all exterior walls to be rated by the
adopted 2025 California Building Code and related codes as one-hour fire
resistant;
         (b)   All glass facing the wildland edge to be double-paned, meeting
the adopted 2025 California Building Code and related codes requirements;
         (c)   All roof coverings to be noncombustible;
         (d)   The underside of all roof overhangs to be enclosed with
assemblies rated by the adopted 2025 California Building Code and related codes
as one-hour fire resistant;
         (e)   Open ends of tile roofs to be capped with non-ignitable material
in order to prevent placement of bird nests or other combustible material
within the roof structure;
         (f)   No attic air vents to be placed facing the wild land edge;
         (g)   All attic air vents to be covered by corrosion resistant wire
mesh;
         (h)   Roof-mounted turbine air vents to be prohibited;
         (i)   All exposed roof and wall piping, vents, flashing and other
penetrations and appendages to be constructed of noncombustible materials;
         (j)   All chimneys to be equipped with spark arresters constructed of
12-gauge wire screen with one-half inch openings. Spark arresters to be mounted
in a vertical position visible from the ground;
         (k)   All garage doors facing the wildland edge to be constructed of
noncombustible materials;
         (l)   Patio covers facing the wildland edge and their structural
supports to be constructed of or encased with noncombustible materials;
         (m)   The exposed undersides of wood decks to be encased with
noncombustible materials;
         (n)   All fencing to be constructed of noncombustible materials; and
         (o)   An automatic fire suppression system to be installed as required
by the Fire Marshal.
   (K)   Fire suppression systems. New residential buildings in fire hazard
areas may be required to be provided with an automatic fire suppression system
in order to decrease the spread of fire. Need for and design of suppression
systems shall be determined by the Fire Marshal in each individual case.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-54.5) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
48, passed 8-3-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Applicable related codes, see §
8-1-12
§ 9-1-54.6 SMC SENIOR MANAGED CARE OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of the Senior Managed Care
(SMC) Overlay District is to regulate specialized housing designed to meet the
physical and social needs of senior citizens by providing a range of managed
care.
   (B)   Boundaries of senior citizens overlay district. Senior Managed Care
Overlay District may be applied to the following zoning districts:
      (1)   Mixed use and local commercial;
      (2)   Community facility;
      (3)   Mixed use and commercial;
      (4)   Industrial;
      (5)   Office/commercial/retail;
      (6)   Professional and administrative office;
      (7)   Local and community commercial;
      (8)   Town center;
      (9)   Visitor serving commercial;
      (10)   Industrial park;
      (11)   Neighborhood commercial;
      (12)   C1 Local Business District;
      (13)   CC Commercial Community District;
      (14)   CN Commercial Neighborhood District; and
      (15)   M1 Light Industrial District zones as outlined in the planned
community texts and zoning code of the city. The boundaries of the SMC Overlay
District are as shown on the official zoning map.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, senior managed care
shall include: managed care for seniors ranging from assisted care with varying
degrees of medical care to minimum care which does not include any medical
care. For the purposes of the section, this definition also includes congregate
care and convalescent care, as defined in §§
9-1-22 through
9-1-44 of the city zoning code, limited to seniors, residential care facilities
for elderly, as defined in the California Health and Safety Code, § 1569.2, and
Alzheimer’s care facilities limited to seniors.
   (D)   Use permit standards.
      (1)   Development of a senior managed care project within the SMC Overlay
District requires approval of a use permit by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   In addition, the use permit shall require compliance with the
following standards.
         (a)   The housing facility shall be specially designed to meet the
physical and social needs of senior citizens. The housing facility shall
preserve and restrict occupancy to senior citizen tenants to the degree
allowable by law.
         (b)   The housing facility shall provide a useable multi-purpose room
where communal activities, including dining, may be hosted.
         (c)   The housing facility shall provide emergency alert systems in
each unit to notify the on-site staff that assistance is needed.
         (d)   A housing facility staff member shall be on-site 24 hours a day
every day to assist tenant in emergencies.
         (e)   The facility management shall coordinate social services for
tenants which includes meals and transportation. The service may be provided by
the facility management or an outside agency.
         (f)   The on-site facility management shall maintain current records
pertaining to the tenant’s doctor and emergency contacts.
         (g)   All senior housing projects located within the SMC Overlay
District shall comply with the development standards of the base zoning
district.
         (h)   All senior housing projects located within the SMC Overlay
District shall comply with the design guidelines.
         (i)   Projects proposed within the SMC Overlay District shall include
a parking analysis to determine the parking demand for the specific project.
   (E)   Local park code exemption. Senior managed care projects that is
located within the Senior Managed Care (SMC) Overlay District shall be exempt
from the regulations set forth in the local park code found in §§
9-1-500 through
9-1-530.
   (F)   Application to planned communities. This housing type shall not be
considered a residential use for the purpose of allocating dwelling units
within the Country Village, Laguna Niguel, Colinas De Capistrano, Beacon Hill,
Bear Brand and Bear Brand Hill planned communities.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-54.6) (Ord. 98-102, § 2, passed 6-16-1998)
Editor’s note:
   See editor’s note at §
9-1-112.
§ 9-1-54.7 LANDSCAPING AND VEGETATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of this section is to
establish procedures necessary to achieve and maintain the benefits of
landscaped and vegetated areas, including aesthetic, soil stability, ecological
and air quality benefits landscaping and vegetation provides citywide.
   (B)   Design guidelines. This section sets forth basic landscaping
requirements. In addition, Subchapter 2, Article 9 contains landscaping
standards and guidelines, relating to project entry landscaping, pedestrian
area landscaping, tree preservation, plant selection and other items.
   (C)   Maintenance of landscaping and vegetation. All existing landscaped and
vegetated areas visible from public roadways within the OS and PR Zoning
Districts shall be maintained in an orderly, attractive and healthy condition,
including proper pruning, mowing of lawns, weeding, removal of litter,
fertilizing, replacement of plants (including trees) when necessary and the
regular application of appropriate quantities of water to all landscaped areas.
   (D)   Modification of landscaping and vegetation. Any significant
modification or removal to existing landscaped areas (including trees) visible
from public roadways within the OS and PR Zoning Districts shall first require
the review and approval of a changed plan permit or a discretionary permit
amendment as determined by the Community Development Director. If the existing
landscaped areas were originally established as a subdivision condition of
approval, the submittal and approval of a landscape plan by the Planning
Division shall be required. Unregulated removal of trees along street frontages
in particular can detract from the health, safety and general welfare of the
city. This includes the aesthetic, soil stability, ecological and air quality
benefits landscaping provides citywide.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-54.7) (Ord. 2021-210, § 49, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-55 MARIJUANA DISPENSING, DELIVERY AND CULTIVATION.
   (A)   All references to §
9-1-55 include §§
9-1-55.1 through
9-1-55.4, inclusive. The purpose and intent of this section is to prohibit all
marijuana activities, including, but not limited to, operating a dispensary,
dispensing, distribution, cultivation and delivery of marijuana.
   (B)   This section is not intended to apply to the retail sale by delivery
of medicinal cannabis as defined and regulated under Senate Bill 1186, known as
the “Medicinal Cannabis Patients’ Right of Access Act”.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-55) (Ord. 2016-184, § 2, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 9-1-55.1 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Commercial use.
      (1)   The establishment or operation of any business of commercial
marijuana activity is prohibited in all zoning districts of the city. No use
permit, variance, building permit or any other entitlement or permit, whether
administrative or discretionary, shall be approved or issued for the
establishment or operation of any such business or operation.
      (2)   No person shall establish or operate any such businesses or
operations, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   The transportation, delivery, storage, distribution, dispensing
or sale of marijuana, marijuana products or marijuana accessories;
         (b)   The cultivation of marijuana;
         (c)   The manufacturing or testing of marijuana, marijuana products or
marijuana accessories; or
         (d)   Any other business licensed by the state or other government
entity under the California Business and Professions Code, Division 10, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Medical use.
      (1)   The establishment or operation of any medical marijuana collective,
cooperative, dispensary, delivery service, operator, establishment or provider
is prohibited in all zoning districts of the city. No use permit, variance,
building permit or any other entitlement or permit, whether administrative or
discretionary, shall be approved or issued for the establishment of any
collective, cooperative, dispensary, delivery service, operator, establishment
or provider in any zoning district. No person shall establish or operate such
businesses or operations in any zoning district.
      (2)   Cultivation of medical marijuana pursuant to the California Health
and Safety Code, § 11362.77 is subject to the cultivation requirements laid out
in division (C) below.
   (C)   Personal use.
      (1)   Prohibition. For purposes of this division (C), personal
recreational use, possession, purchase, transport or dissemination of marijuana
is unlawful in all areas of the city, except to the extent state law
specifically prohibits cities from prohibiting such use.
      (2)   Outdoor cultivation. No person shall plant, cultivate, harvest, dry
or process marijuana plants outdoors in any zoning district of the city. No use
permit, building permit, variance or any other permit or entitlement, whether
administrative or discretionary, shall be approved or issued for any such use
or activity.
      (3)   Indoor cultivation.
         (a)   To the extent a complete prohibition on indoor cultivation is
not permitted under state law, a person may not possess, plant, cultivate,
harvest, dry or process more than six marijuana plants inside a private
residence, or inside an accessory structure to a private residence located upon
the grounds of a fully enclosed private residence. Also, a person may not
plant, cultivate, harvest, dry or process marijuana plants inside any enclosed
structure within any zoning district of the city which is not either a private
residence or an accessory structure to a private residence located upon the
grounds of a private residence.
         (b)   To the extent prohibition on indoor cultivation is not
prohibited under state law, then indoor cultivation is completely prohibited in
the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-55.1) (Ord. 2016-184, § 2, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 9-1-55.2 VIOLATIONS.
   No person, whether as principal, agent, employee or otherwise, shall
violate, cause the violation of or otherwise fail to comply with any of the
requirements of §
9-1-55. Every act prohibited or declared unlawful, and every failure to perform
an act made mandatory by §
9-1-55 shall be a misdemeanor or an infraction, at the discretion of the City
Attorney or the District Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-55.2) (Ord. 2016-184, § 2, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 9-1-55.3 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the penalties provided in §
9-1-55, any use or condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any
of the provisions of §
9-1-55 is hereby declared a public nuisance and may be abated as provided in
this code or under state law.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-55.3) (Ord. 2016-184, § 2, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 9-1-55.4 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   In addition to any other enforcement permitted by §
9-1-55, the City Attorney may bring a civil action for injunctive relief and
civil penalties pursuant to this code against any person or entity that
violates § 9-1-55. In any civil action brought pursuant to §
9-1-55, a court of competent jurisdiction may award reasonable attorneys’ fees
and costs to the prevailing party.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-55.4) (Ord. 2016-184, § 2, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 9-1-55.5 HOUSING ELEMENT SITE INVENTORY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to codify the statutory
requirements found in California Government Code, § 65583.2(c) that apply to
sites identified in Appendix B of the city’s Housing Element Residential Land
Inventory. The Housing Element Site Inventory includes a list of potential
sites to accommodate a portion of the city’s unmet regional housing needs
allocation (RHNA).
   (B)   Applicability. This section applies to any vacant site identified in
two or more consecutive housing element planning periods or nonvacant sites
identified in a prior planning period to accommodate the lower-income RHNA;
provided that at least 20% of the dwelling units are available to lower-income
households.
   (C)   Relationship to other regulations. Residential development eligible
under division (B) above shall also comply with Title 9, including, but not
limited to, applicable standards within the underlying zoning district and
objective development and design standards in accordance with §
9-1-95. Where there is a conflict between the requirements in the zoning code
and this section, this section prevails.
   (D)   Standards. Residential development eligible under division (B) above
shall comply with the following additional standards.
      (1)   The minimum residential density is 30 dwelling units per net acre.
      (2)   Owner-occupied and rental multi-family residential uses are
permitted by right and do not require a discretionary review or approval for
residential developments in which 20% or more of the units are affordable to
lower-income households (as defined by California Health and Safety Code, §
50079.5).
      (3)   An applicant for a project under this section may apply for a
density bonus in accordance with California Government Code, § 65915 and §
9-1-37.
(Ord. 2024-228, passed 5-21-2024)
§§ 9-1-56—9-1-59 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 6. PARKING **
§ 9-1-60 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   These regulations are established to provide for off-street parking of motor
vehicles attracted by the various land uses in the city. It is intended that
the provisions of these regulations result in properly designed parking areas
with adequate numbers of parking spaces in order to reduce traffic congestion,
promote business and enhance public safety.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-60) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-61 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Modifications to parking facilities. No existing parking facility
shall be restriped or modified with respect to layout, aisle width, numbers or
sizes of spaces, street access or any other physical characteristic without
prior review by the Community Development Director. The Director shall
determine if discretionary review is required for the modification pursuant to
Subchapter 2, Article 9 or Subchapter 2, Article 11.
   (B)   Location of off-street parking.
      (1)   Required parking facilities shall be located on the same building
site and conveniently proximate to the uses they serve, except as otherwise
provided in §§
9-1-62 and
9-1-65(J).
      (2)   Property within the ultimate right-of-way of a street, either
public or private, shall not be included in provision of the minimum parking.
   (C)   Accessibility. All required off-street parking spaces shall be
designed, located, constructed and maintained so as to be fully and
independently usable and accessible at all times.
   (D)   Usability.
      (1)   The required off-street parking facilities and driveways shall not
be used for any purpose, which at any time would preclude the use of the area
for the temporary storage of motor vehicles.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by an approved discretionary permit, no
owner or tenant shall lease, rent or otherwise make unavailable to intended
users any off-street parking spaces required by this article.
   (E)   Access to arterial highways.
      (1)   Wherever access to a parking area is off an arterial highway
designated on the master plan of arterial highways, parking spaces, driveways
and maneuvering areas shall be designed so that motor vehicles may enter the
arterial highway traveling in a forward direction.
      (2)   Vehicular access to arterial highways designated on the master plan
of arterial highways will be permitted only in accordance with specifically
approved driveway locations and access design.
   (F)   Maximum grades.
      (1)   Whenever access is taken from a street, alley or driveway to an
off-street parking area serving four or less dwelling units, the driveway or
other vehicular accessway shall have a maximum grade of plus 15% or minus 6%,
measured from the street, alley or driveway grade along the driveway
centerline, for a distance of not less than 18 feet from the street, alley or
driveway right-of-way line.
      (2)   Whenever access is taken from a street, alley or driveway to an
off-street parking area serving industrial, commercial or professional uses,
public or community facilities, or five or more dwelling units, the driveway or
other vehicular accessway shall have a maximum grade of plus 15% or minus 2%,
measured from the street, alley or driveway grade along the driveway
centerline, for a distance of not more than 18 feet from the street, alley or
driveway right-of-way line.
      (3)   The maximum grades specified in divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) above
will generally provide adequate sight distance at street level and prevent
vehicles from dragging on extreme grade breaks. Minor adjustments may be
approved by the Community Development Director, in accordance with §
9-1-114, where physical design prevents such extreme grade breaks and provides
safe sight distance.
      (4)   Off-street parking spaces and the abutting parking aisles shall
have a maximum grade of 2% for retail commercial and 5% for all other uses. The
grade shall be measured across the parking space and the abutting parking aisle
in any direction. (See Figure 6.3 in §
9-1-64.)
      (5)   For both residential and nonresidential uses, ramps or driveways
providing vehicular access within the interior of an off-street parking area
located beyond 18 feet from the ultimate right-of-way line of a street, alley
or driveway shall have a maximum slope of plus or minus 20%. When such ramp or
driveway slopes exceed plus or minus 10%, the ramp or driveway design shall
include transitions, not less than eight feet in length, having a slope equal
to one-half the ramp slope. (See Figure 6.3 in §
9-1-64.) When parking is provided on a ramp, the maximum slope shall not exceed
6%.
   (G)   Parking area notices and directional instructions. Notwithstanding the
regulations of any district, parking area notices, each not to exceed two
square feet in area, and directional instructions lettered on the paved surface
of driveways and parking areas are permitted for parking facilities serving
industrial, commercial or professional uses, public or community facilities,
and five or more residential dwelling units. Such parking notices may contain
the name of the owner or occupant of the property and only such words and
symbols that are directly related or essential to parking, enforcement or the
direction of vehicular traffic within the parking area.
   (H)   Paving. All permanent parking spaces, driveways and maneuvering areas
shall be paved and permanently maintained with asphaltic concrete, cement
concrete or other all-weather, non-erodable hard surfacing. Temporary parking
spaces, driveways and maneuvering areas may use decomposed granite or other
stable, all-weather surfacing.
   (I)   Lighting. Any lights used to illuminate the parking spaces or
driveways shall be designed and located so that direct rays are confined to the
property.
   (J)   Change or increase in use of property. Whenever the occupancy or use
of any premises which is not in compliance with off-street parking requirements
is changed to a different use, or the existing use is altered, enlarged,
expanded or intensified, parking to meet the requirements of this article shall
be provided for the new use or occupancy. This provision shall not apply to the
addition of rooms or other alterations of a single-family dwelling which do not
increase the total floor area more than 50%.
   (K)   Fractional parking spaces. Whenever the computation of the number of
off-street parking spaces required by this section results in a fractional
parking space, one additional parking space shall be required for one-half or
more fractional parking space, and any fractional space less than one-half of a
parking space shall not be counted.
   (L)   Parking facilities for the physically handicapped. Disabled accessible
parking spaces shall be provided as required by Title 24 of the California
Building Standards Code, being California Code of Regulations Title 24. The
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et
seq., also contains parking regulations. For information regarding these
standards, please refer to the city’s Building Division.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-61) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, § 50,
passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-62 ALTERNATIVE PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Alternative standards to any of those set forth in this Subchapter 2,
Article 6 may be permitted subject to approval of a site development permit in
compliance with the provisions of §
9-1-114.
   (B)   No such application shall be approved unless the approving authority
makes the following findings in addition to the standard findings for approval
of a site development permit set forth in §
9-1-114:
      (1)   Applicable off-street parking requirements are excessive or
inappropriate due to the nature of the specific use involved or because of
special circumstances applicable to the property; and
      (2)   The proposed off-street parking facilities comply with the intent
of these regulations as specified by §
9-1-61.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-62) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-63 RESIDENTIAL PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applicability. Off-street parking facilities shall be provided for all
residential uses in compliance with this section and other applicable sections
in this article.
   (B)   If number of spaces not specified. If no provisions for the required
number of off-street parking spaces are set forth in this section or the
provisions are not clear, the Community Development Director shall determine
the number of off-street parking spaces required.
   (C)   Number of required parking spaces. Table 6.1 below provides the
minimum number of off-street parking spaces required for each category of
residential use.
TABLE 6.1: RESIDENTIAL PARKING SPACES
USE MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENT
TABLE 6.1: RESIDENTIAL PARKING SPACES
USE                                   MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENT
Single-family dwellings               2 enclosed parking spaces per dwelling,
                                      plus guest parking. 1
Two or more dwelling units 2
                                      1.5 off-street parking spaces for each
Studio and one-bedroom dwelling units dwelling unit. One space shall be covered
                                      for each dwelling unit, plus guest
                                      parking.
                                      2.0 off-street parking spaces for each
Two-bedroom dwelling units            dwelling unit. At least one space shall
                                      be covered for each dwelling unit, plus
                                      guest parking.
                                      2.5 off-street parking spaces for each
                                      dwelling unit, plus 0.5 off-street
Three or more bedroom dwelling units  parking space for each bedroom in excess
                                      of three. At least two spaces shall be
                                      covered for each dwelling unit, plus
                                      guest parking.
Guest parking 3
                                      For single family dwelling units, guest
                                      parking shall be provided at a rate of
                                      0.5 guest parking spaces per dwelling
Single-family                         unit. This guest parking requirement may
                                      be satisfied via driveway parking if the
                                      driveway is at least 20-foot from the
                                      back of the curb or sidewalk, whichever
                                      is closest to the garage.
Multi-family
                                      For developments with two-or more
                                      dwelling units, up to 50 dwelling units,
2 to 50 dwelling units                guest parking shall be provided at a rate
                                      of 0.5 guest parking spaces per dwelling
                                      unit (rounded to the nearest whole
                                      number).
                                      For developments with two or more
                                      dwelling units, guest parking shall be
                                      provided at a rate of 0.3 guest parking
More than 50 dwelling units           spaces per dwelling unit (rounded to the
                                      nearest whole number). Guest spaces shall
                                      be located within the development project
                                      area.
Accessory dwelling units              Refer to §
                                      9-1-35.26.
Junior accessory dwelling units       Refer to §
                                      9-1-35.26.
Notes:
1 Those dwellings having less than a 20-foot setback from the back of the curb
or sidewalk, whichever is closest to the garage, shall provide one additional
parking space within the development area.
2 BEDROOM means any habitable room other than a kitchen, bathroom, hallway,
dining room or living room, containing four walls and provides privacy.
3 Guest spaces shall be located within the development project area. A parking
allocation plan demonstrating guest parking location in relation to the unit
served may be required as part of the site development permit.
 
      (1)   Alternative parking plans. It is recognized that unusual single-
and multiple-family projects may warrant alternative parking schemes. In cases
where the applicant proposes an alternative parking design or allocation, a
parking allocation plan shall be prepared and processed via a site development
permit in accordance with the provisions of §
9-1-62.
      (2)   RV parking in garages. For single-family dwellings, one garage
space may be occupied by a recreation vehicle; provided the vehicle is
maintained in working condition at all times.
   (D)   Size of parking spaces.
      (1)   Each required covered off-street parking space for single-family
dwellings shall be in a garage or carport a minimum of ten feet in width and 20
feet in length of unobstructed area. In garages or carports containing two or
more side-by-side parking spaces, the required minimum width may include the
exterior walls or supports of the structure; provided minimum unobstructed
dimensions of nine feet in width and 18 feet in length are met.
      (2)   Uncovered off-street parking spaces shall be a minimum of nine feet
in width and 18 feet in length. In measuring the length of paving required for
uncovered parking spaces, allowance may be made for vehicular overhang beyond
the bumper or tire stop if such overhang does not interfere with screening or
pedestrian use, except as provided under division (I)(3) below.
      (3)   When a side of any space abuts a building, fence, support column or
other obstruction which interferes in any way with access to a motor vehicle,
the space shall be a minimum of two feet wider than otherwise required by this
section.
      (4)   Uncovered parallel parking spaces adjoining private accessways
shall be not less than eight feet in width and 18 feet in depth, with a minimum
of eight feet separating each pair of such parking spaces as shown in Figure
6.1 in §
9-1-64.
   (E)   Driveway widths.
      (1)   Single-family residence driveways shall be paved to a minimum of
ten feet in width from the access street or alley to the garage maneuvering
area.
      (2)   Driveways providing access to garages, carports and uncovered
parking areas serving two dwelling units shall be paved to a minimum of 16 feet
wide, except when a wider width is required for maneuvering area in front of
the garages, carports or uncovered parking spaces.
      (3)   Driveways providing access to garages, carports and uncovered
parking areas serving three or four dwelling units shall be paved to a minimum
of 20 feet wide, except when a wider width is required for maneuvering area in
front of the garages, carports or uncovered parking spaces.
      (4)   (a)   Driveways providing access to garages, carports and uncovered
parking areas serving five or more dwelling units shall be paved to a minimum
of 24 feet wide, except when a wider width is required for maneuvering area in
front of the garages, carports or uncovered parking spaces.
         (b)   Additional width may be required as necessary to provide
transition to a driveway approach.
   (F)   Maneuvering areas. Maneuvering areas for access into and out of
garages, carports and uncovered parking spaces shall have minimum widths as
follows.
      (1)   Garages and carports shall have 28 feet of unobstructed area,
measured from the garage or carport entry.
      (2)   Uncovered parking shall have 24 feet of unobstructed area, measured
from the outward end of the parking stall.
   (G)   Location of residential parking spaces.
      (1)   Assigned spaces shall be located within the development project
area they serve.
      (2)   A parking allocation plan demonstrating guest parking location in
relation to the unit served may be required as part of the site development
permit.
   (H)   Roadway widths for single-family dwellings.
      (1)   Table 6.2 below shows required roadway widths for single family
dwellings:
 
TABLE 6.2: REQUIRED RESIDENTIAL ROADWAY WIDTHS
Roadway Width* for Access to: Parking One Side (feet) Parking Both Sides (feet)
1—17 units                  28                      36
18—42 units                 30                      36
43—100 units                34                      40
* Curb-to-curb, or flowline-to-flowline if there is no curb.
 
      (2)   Roadways less than 36 feet wide shall allow on-street parking on
one side of the roadway only. Roadways must be 36 feet wide or greater to allow
on-street parking on both sides of the roadway.
      (3)   There shall be a minimum separation of two feet between any side
property line and any driveway, including the driveway flair.
      (4)   Other roadway and driveway details shall conform to the latest
edition of the city’s standard plans.
   (I)   Design of common parking areas. Common off-street parking areas,
including multiple garages and carports serving five or more dwelling units,
shall comply with the following.
      (1)   The off-street parking area shall be designed so that a vehicle
within the parking area will not have to enter a street to move from one
location to any other location within that parking area.
      (2)   Parking and maneuvering areas, including garages and carports,
shall be designed so that any vehicle can leave the parking area and enter into
the nearest street traveling in a forward direction.
      (3)   Curbs or tire stops shall be provided at the end of each uncovered
parking space along any property line abutting a public walkway, street or
alley, except where screening is positioned, to ensure that the motor vehicle
will not extend into the public right-of-way.
   (J)   Location of driveway on corner lot.
      (1)   When a building site abuts two intersecting streets, the driveway
approach shall be located within the half of either street frontage that is
farthest from the intersection of the two streets.
      (2)   If one of the intersecting streets is an arterial highway, the
driveway approach shall be off the other street.
   (K)   Screening. Uncovered residential parking facilities containing five or
more spaces shall be screened in accordance with the nonresidential screening
requirements of §
9-1-45.4.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-63) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, § 51,
passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-64 PARKING FACILITY DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Parking design illustrations.
FIGURE 6.1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4373.jpg]
 
FIGURE 6.2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4375.jpg]
 
FIGURE 6.3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4377.jpg]
 
   (B)   Minimum parking aisle width for one-way traffic.
TABLE 6.3: MINIMUM PARKING AISLES FOR ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
Parking Angle (Degrees) Aisle Width (Feet)
TABLE 6.3: MINIMUM PARKING AISLES FOR ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
Parking Angle (Degrees) Aisle Width (Feet)
0—44                  14.0
45—49                 15.0
50—54                 16.0
55—59                 17.0
60—64                 18.0
65—69                 19.0
70—74                 20.5
75—79                 22.0
80—90                 25.0
 
   (C)   Minimum parking aisle width for two-way traffic. For two-way traffic,
aisle widths and maneuvering areas shall be a minimum of 25 feet wide.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-64) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, § 52,
passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-65 NONRESIDENTIAL PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applicability. The following off-street parking requirements are
applicable to all uses other than the residential uses set forth in §
9-1-63, and are in addition to the general requirements set forth in §
9-1-61.
   (B)   Size of parking spaces.
      (1)   All covered or uncovered off-street parking spaces, except as
otherwise noted in this division (B), shall be a minimum clear unobstructed
nine feet in width and 18 feet in length.
      (2)   Parking spaces parallel to a curb may be eight feet in width and 18
feet in length, with a minimum of eight feet separating each pair of such
parking spaces.
      (3)   When a side of any space abuts a building, fence, support column or
other obstruction, which interferes in any way with access to a motor vehicle,
the space shall be a minimum of two feet wider than the standard required
width.
      (4)   In measuring the length of paving required for uncovered parking
spaces, allowance may be made to accommodate vehicular overhang beyond a
continuous, unbroken concrete curb, if such overhang does not interfere with
screening or pedestrian use, except as provided under division (C)(4) below.
(Also, see Figure 6.2 in §
9-1-64 for examples of permitted overhang.)
   (C)   Parking facility design.
      (1)   Off-street parking facilities shall be designed so that a car
within a facility will not have to enter a street to move from one location to
any other location within that parking facility. On industrial or office sites,
separate noncontiguous parking facilities may be provided with independent
entrances for employee and visitor parking; provided the designated use is
clearly identified on all plot plans or site plans submitted for permits.
      (2)   Parking and maneuvering areas shall be arranged so that any vehicle
can leave the parking area and enter into an adjoining vehicular right-of-way
traveling in a forward direction.
      (3)   Dead-end parking aisles shall have a designated turn around area or
hammer head to allow a three-point turn for exiting.
      (4)   Continuous, unbroken concrete curbs shall be provided along any
abutment to a pedestrian walkway, access or driveway, street or alley, except
where screening is positioned, to ensure that the motor vehicle will not extend
into these areas.
      (5)   The point of exit or entry from any off-street parking space shall
not be closer than 20 feet from the curb face of the ultimate curbline at a
street opening.
      (6)   All paved parking stalls, except parallel spaces, which may use a
single line, shall be clearly outlined with double or hairpin lines or special
paving techniques on the surface of the parking facility. (See Figure 6.1 in §
9-1-64.)
      (7)   All parking spaces shall be located so as to be within proximity to
the use they are intended to serve. Distribution of parking in multi-tenant
centers should be in reasonable proximity to the uses they are intended to
serve. As a general guideline, the spaces should not be located greater than
500 feet from the use served. It is recognized that for larger retail buildings
and centers this guideline may not be met.
   (D)   Parking accessways.
      (1)   Parking accessways are those driveways that provide ingress or
egress from a street to the parking aisles, and those driveways providing
interior circulation between parking aisles. No parking is permitted on an
accessway.
      (2)   Accessways shall conform to the following standards.
         (a)   All parking facilities taking access from a major, primary or
secondary arterial shall have a parking accessway between the arterial and the
parking aisles.
         (b)   Parking accessways from arterial highways shall not have parking
spaces taking direct access therefrom and shall not be intersected by a parking
aisle or another parking accessway for a minimum distance of 30 feet for
projects with zero to 200 parking spaces, 50 feet for projects with 201 to 350
spaces, 70 feet for projects with 351 to 450 spaces and 90 feet for projects
with 451 spaces or more. All distances shall be measured from the curb face of
the ultimate curbline of the adjacent street.
         (c)   Parking accessways from nonarterial highways shall be not less
than 20 feet in length from the ultimate curbline of the adjacent street.
         (d)   One-way accessways shall have a minimum width of 15 feet, unless
the accessway is a fire lane, which requires a minimum of 20 feet.
         (e)   Two-way accessways shall have a minimum width of 28 feet.
   (E)   Parking aisles. Parking aisles are driveways which provide direct
access to parking spaces. Parking aisles shall have a minimum width of 14 feet
as provided in Table 6.3 in §
9-1-64. In no case shall the parking aisles for two-way traffic be less than 25
feet in width.
   (F)   Number of required parking spaces.
      (1)   The minimum number of off-street parking spaces required shall be
in compliance with the listed requirements set forth for each category of land
use in §
9-1-66.
      (2)   Whenever any commercial or industrial use is located on a building
site that is also used for residential purposes, parking facilities shall be
provided for the residential use as required, in addition to the parking
required for the nonresidential use or uses.
   (G)   Landscaping. Landscaping of parking areas shall be provided in
accordance with the provisions of the applicable land use district regulations.
In all cases, space within the off-street parking area not utilized for
driveways, maneuvering areas, parking stalls or walkways shall be landscaped.
Landscaped areas shall be separated from paved driveways, parking space and
maneuvering areas by a minimum six-inch high barrier.
   (H)   Screening. Open parking spaces and parking structures shall be
screened in accordance with §
9-1-45.4. Screening shall be located adjacent to the inside edge of any
required boundary landscaping and to the outside edge of the paved parking area
when there is no landscaping.
   (I)   Vehicular access. Any site development permit, use permit or coastal
development permit for development in nonresidential districts shall be in
substantial conformity with the following.
      (1)   The first street opening from an intersection should be a minimum
of 110 feet from the point of intersection of the ultimate right-of-way lines
of the abutting streets.
      (2)   The second street opening should be a minimum of 300 feet from the
point of intersection of the ultimate right-of-way lines of the abutting
streets.
      (3)   Any additional street openings should be a minimum of 300 feet,
from center to center, from any other street opening.
      (4)   There should be a minimum distance of 22 feet, measured at the
ultimate property line, between a street opening in these districts and any
existing street opening in any other district.
   (J)   Joint use of parking facilities. Land uses on abutting building sites
may share common parking facilities; provided the following requirements are
met.
      (1)   Parking facilities shall be within the same or contiguous shopping
center, or within 300 feet of the entry point of the uses they serve, and a
pedestrian pathway shall be provided as a means for pedestrian linkage between
adjacent land uses and uses within the parking facility.
      (2)   A detailed parking plan, showing all common parking facilities,
building square footage and tenant spaces participating, shall be approved by
the Community Development Director.
      (3)   Adequate assurance shall be provided to guarantee that required
parking will continue to be maintained in compliance with the applicable
provisions of this section.
      (4)   If the abutting building sites are in separate ownerships, the
common parking plan and guarantee of parking availability required by this
division (J) shall be recorded with the County Recorder.
      (5)   For shopping centers, please refer to §
9-1-66(B) and (C) for shared parking provisions.
   (K)   Motorcycle parking facilities.
      (1)   Motorcycle parking areas shall be provided at a rate of 50 square
feet per space.
      (2)   Motorcycle parking areas shall be provided for all nonresidential
uses at the following rate.
         (a)   Uses with 25 to 99 automobile parking spaces shall provide one
designated area for use by motorcycles.
         (b)   Uses with more than 100 automobile parking spaces shall provide
motorcycle parking areas at the rate of one motorcycle parking area for every
100 automobile parking spaces or fraction thereof provided.
         (c)   Motorcycle parking areas required by this division (K) shall
count toward fulfilling automobile parking requirements.
   (L)   Bicycle parking facilities. The minimum bicycle parking requirements
for uses in the city are as follows.
      (1)   Land uses that are required to provide bicycle parking equal to 3%
of the total required parking spaces, as set forth in §
9-1-66, include: video and game arcades, bowling alleys, cinemas/movie
theaters, commercial recreation, health clubs, libraries, schools and skating
rinks.
      (2)   Land uses that are required to provide five bicycle parking spaces
include: banks, churches, clubs/halls, hospitals and restaurants (all
categories).
      (3)   Land uses that are required to provide bicycle parking equal to one
space for each 25,000 square feet of gross floor area include all office uses
(governmental, general, medical, financial).
      (4)   In addition to the preceding requirements, retail centers shall
provide five bicycle parking spaces for each major tenant having over 20,000
square feet of gross floor area. The spaces shall be provided at or near the
major tenant’s main entry.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-65) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2019-197, § 3,
passed 6-4-2019; Ord. 2021-210, § 53, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-66 NONRESIDENTIAL SPACES REQUIRED BY USE.
   (A)   Minimum requirements.
      (1)   All land uses shall provide off-street parking in compliance with
the requirements of this section unless modified by the provisions contained in
§
9-1-62.
      (2)   The off-street parking requirements listed in Table 6.5 below are
the minimum requirements for each specific use.
      (3)   It shall be the responsibility of the developer, owner or operator
of any specific use to provide adequate off-street parking even though such
parking may be in excess of the minimum requirements set forth in this section.
      (4)   The decision-making authority may impose such additional parking
requirements if it finds that a parking study or other empirical data has
demonstrated that additional parking spaces are required for a specific use or
mix of uses.
   (B)   Major shopping centers (shared parking model).
      (1)   (a)   Notwithstanding the individual parking space requirements
identified in Table 6.5, it is recognized that the parking demand for major
shopping centers, centers with 400 parking spaces or more and a mix of three or
more commercial uses (e.g., office, restaurant, retail, service, fitness,
cinema and the like), typically varies between individual businesses, and that
the total demand typically decreases as development size increases.
         (b)   In these situations, allowing for “shared parking” results in
fewer total parking spaces needed when compared to the total number of spaces
needed for each land use or business independently.
      (2)   Recognizing this, the following provisions apply.
         (a)   If the overall parking space requirement for a major shopping
center, per Table 6.5, is greater than the cumulative number of spaces
provided, a discount of up to 25% of the required overall number is permitted.
         (b)   Parking discounts in excess of 25% for a major shopping center
require the approval of a site development permit, pursuant to the provisions
of §
9-1-62.
   (C)   Neighborhood centers. For shopping centers with less than 400 parking
spaces, if the overall parking space requirement, per Table 6.5, is greater
than the cumulative number of spaces provided, then an application may be made
for a site development permit, pursuant to the provisions of §
9-1-62.
   (D)   If number of spaces not specified. If no provisions for the required
number of off-street parking spaces are set forth in the Table 6.5 following,
or the provisions are not clear for any use, the Community Development Director
shall determine the number of off-street parking spaces required.
TABLE 6.5: NONRESIDENTIAL PARKING SPACES BY LAND USE
LAND USE MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENT ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS
TABLE 6.5: NONRESIDENTIAL PARKING SPACES BY LAND USE
LAND USE                                                                     MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENT                                        ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS
ASSEMBLY USES:
Auditoriums, theaters (not including cinemas)                                1 space per 3 seats or 1 space per 35 square feet of gross floor area, where  18 linear inches of bench shall be considered a fixed seat
                                                                             there are no fixed seats
                                                                             10 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area including indoor/outdoor  A description of the proposed operational characteristics
Bars, pubs and cocktail lounges                                              seating areas                                                                 and a parking study may be required to determined precise
                                                                                                                                                           rates within the range specified
AUTOMOTIVE USES:
Automobile (motor vehicle) repair/garages                                    1 space per 300 square feet of gross floor area, but not less than 5 per
                                                                             business
Automobile service stations:
(1) Without retail sale of beverage and food items                           1 space per 250 square feet of gross floor area, plus 2 spaces per service
                                                                             bay                                                                           Gross floor area shall be defined as all areas which are
                                                                                                                                                           fully enclosed and shall include retail area, restrooms,
(2) With retail sale of beverage and food items                              10 spaces, plus 1 space per 250 square feet of gross floor area, plus 2       storage and mechanical areas, service bays and cashier’s
                                                                             spaces/service bay                                                            booth

                                                                                                                                                           18 lineal inches of bench shall be considered a fixed
                                                                                                                                                           seat. Additional parking will be required at the rate of 1
                                                                             1 space per 3 seats within the main auditorium or 1 space per 35 square feet  space per 3 seats or 1 space per 35 square feet of gross
Churches, temples and other places of assembly not specified elsewhere       of gross floor area within the main auditorium where there are no fixed       floor area for other auditoriums, assembly halls or
                                                                             seats, plus required parking for other uses on the site                       classrooms that will be used concurrently with the main
                                                                                                                                                           auditorium. The additional parking will be required for
                                                                                                                                                           the ancillary uses if used at different times than the
                                                                                                                                                           main auditorium
Cinemas (single- and multi-screen)                                           1 space per 3 seats, plus 5 spaces for employees
Clubs, lodge halls and union halls (not including health clubs)              1 space per 35 square feet of gross floor area within the main auditorium,
                                                                             plus required parking for other uses on the site
Dance halls                                                                  1 space per 7 square feet of dance floor area, plus 1 space per 35 square
                                                                             feet of additional gross floor area
Mortuaries and funeral homes                                                 5 spaces, plus 250 square feet of usable and accessible paved parking area
                                                                             for every 25 square feet or fraction thereof of assembly room floor area
Senior centers                                                               1 space per 125 square feet
AUTOMOTIVE USES:
                                                                             3.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of office area, plus 1 space per 1,000
Automobile, truck, boat, similar vehicle sales or rental establishments      square feet of indoor/outdoor auto sales/display area, plus 1 space per 300
                                                                             square feet of gross floor area for repair/service areas, plus 2 spaces per
                                                                             service bay
Car washes:
(1) Full-service                                                             16 spaces; fuel, vacuuming and drying queuing area shall not be used for
                                                                             required spaces                                                               Applicant may be required to submit a parking study, which
(2) Self-service                                                             5 spaces per 2 washing stalls (a wash stall shall not count as a parking      includes a stacking analysis for the proposed facility
                                                                             space)
EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES:
                                                                                                                                                           Applicant may be required to submit a stacking analysis to
Daycare/nurseries, including pre-schools and nursery schools                 1 space per staff member, plus 1 space per 5 children or 1 space per 10       define an adequate drop-off facility that accommodates a
                                                                             children if adequate drop-off facilities are provided                         continuous flow of passenger vehicles to safely load and
                                                                                                                                                           unload children
Libraries                                                                    1 space per 300 square feet of gross floor area
Schools:
(1) Elementary and junior high                                               2 spaces/classroom
(2) Senior high schools                                                      1 space per faculty member and employee, plus 1 space per 6 full-time
                                                                             equivalent students regularly enrolled
(3) Colleges, universities and institutions of higher learning               1 space per 3 full-time equivalent students, plus 1 space per 2 faculty and
                                                                             employee members
(4) Trade schools, business colleges and commercial schools                  1 space per 3 student capacity of each classroom, plus 1 for each faculty and
                                                                             employee member
GENERAL COMMERCIAL USES:
Banks, savings and loans, credit unions and other financial institutions     1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area                               Standalone rate
Barbershops                                                                  2 spaces per chair
Beauty parlors/hair salons                                                   3 spaces per station
Dry cleaners                                                                 1 space/200 square feet gross floor area
Hotels                                                                       1 space per unit or bedroom, whichever is more restrictive, plus spaces       Applicant may be required to submit a parking study
                                                                             required for ancillary uses
Laundromats                                                                  1 space per 3 machines                                                        A washer/dryer combination is considered one machine
Within retail commercial or shopping center                                  1 space per 200 square feet gross floor area
                                                                             1 space per 500 square feet of gross floor area for retail sales, plus 1
Lumberyards, nurseries                                                       space per 1,000 square feet of open area devoted to display or sales, plus 1
                                                                             space per 2 employees
                                                                             1 space per unit or bedroom, whichever is more restrictive, plus 1 employee   If ancillary uses are proposed, a parking study may be
Motels                                                                       space per 10 guest rooms, plus 2 spaces for any manager’s unit, plus spaces required
                                                                             required for ancillary uses
Personal service establishments, including tanning salons, nail salons,      3 spaces per station
massage services or uses of a similar nature
HEALTH CARE FACILITIES:
Animal/veterinary hospitals and clinics                                      1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area, exclusive of overnight
                                                                             boarding areas
Congregate care facilities serving more than 12 persons                      1 space per unit
Convalescent and nursing homes, homes for the aged, rest homes, children’s 1 space per 4 beds, per the resident capacity of the home, as listed on the
homes and sanitariums                                                        required license
Hospitals                                                                    1.75 spaces per bed                                                           Applicant shall submit a parking study that addresses
                                                                                                                                                           parking for the hospital
INDUSTRIAL USES:
Industrial Parks, R&D:
(1) Manufacturing, research assembly, packaging, wholesaling                 1 space per 500 square feet (maximum 10% office area)
(2) Warehousing and distribution uses                                        1 space per 1,000 square feet (maximum 10% office area)                       If use is not identified at the time of application, the
(3) Outside uses: storage, wrecking/salvage and lumber yards                 1 space per 1,000 square feet, but no less than 5                             parking shall be based on the manufacturing, research,
(4) Offices                                                                  4 spaces per 1,000 square feet for office square footage which exceeds 10% of assembly, packaging and wholesaling ratio
                                                                             gross floor area
General manufacturing/industrial uses                                        1 space per 500 square feet of gross floor area (maximum 10% office area)
(5) Mini-storage facilities:
a. Single-story                                                              1 space per 5,000 square feet
                                                                             
b. Multi-story                                                               1 space per 2,000 square feet, plus 2 spaces for any caretaker’s unit
Storage yards in connection with contractor’s business, salvage yard,      6 spaces that shall be separated from the enclosed storage area
junkyard, automobile wrecking yard
Warehouses, storage buildings or structures used exclusively for storage     1 space per 1,000 square feet of gross area for storage purposes
Wholesale establishments and warehouses not used exclusively for storage     1 space per 500 square feet of gross floor area, excluding that area devoted
                                                                             to office or sales, plus 1 space per 250 square feet of office or sales area
                                                                                                                                                           Rates are for office uses only; if ancillary uses are
General, other than medical or dental                                        4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area                            included, such as financial institutions, restaurants or
                                                                                                                                                           retail establishments, parking for these uses must be
                                                                                                                                                           provided per the prevailing rates
Medical clinics or offices, dental clinics or offices                        6 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
MISCELLANEOUS USES:
Model home sales complexes                                                   10 spaces
Public utility facilities, including, but not limited to, electric, gas,     1 space per employee, plus 1 space per vehicle used in connection with the    Applicant may be required to submit a study addressing
water, telephone and telegraph facilities not having business offices on the facility                                                                      parking for the facility
premises
Timeshare condominiums and timeshare hotels                                  1.5 spaces per dwelling unit
RECREATIONAL USES:
Arcades, game and rentals                                                    1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
Billiard halls                                                               2 spaces per billiard table, plus required parking for other uses on the site
Bowling alleys                                                               5 spaces per alley, plus required parking for other uses on the site
Golf uses:
(1) Driving ranges                                                           1 space per tee, plus the spaces required for additional uses on the site
(2) Pitch and putt and miniature golf courses                                3 spaces per hole, plus the spaces required for additional uses on the site
(3) Regulation courses                                                       8 spaces per hole, plus the spaces required for additional uses on the site
Handball/racquetball facilities                                              1.5 spaces per court, plus the spaces required for additional uses on the
                                                                             site
Health clubs and spas                                                        1 space per 150 square feet of gross floor area (for purposes of this         Applicant shall submit a parking study that addresses
                                                                             section, swimming pool area shall be counted as floor area)                   parking for the facility
Shooting ranges                                                              1 space per shooting station, plus 5 for employees
Skating rinks, ice or roller                                                 1 space per 100 square feet of gross floor area, plus the spaces required for
                                                                             additional uses on the site
                                                                             Sufficient area, treated to prevent dust, to provide for the needs of
Stables, commercial                                                          employees, but not the needs of customers but not less than 1 accessible
                                                                             space for each 5 horses kept on the premises
Swimming pools, commercial                                                   1 space per 500 square feet of gross enclosed area, plus the spaces required
                                                                             for additional uses on the site
Tennis clubs, commercial                                                     3 spaces per court, plus the spaces required for additional uses on the site
RESTAURANTS:
                                                                                                                                                           Special design requirements for drive thru which may
(1) Drive-in                                                                                                                                               require a traffic/ circulation study are reviewed through
                                                                                                                                                           the use permit process. Stacking lanes shall be located so
                                                                                                                                                           that they do not serve as entryways to parking spaces
(2) Retail food                                                              5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area including indoor/outdoor
                                                                             seating areas
Restaurants up to 4,000 square feet                                          10 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area including indoor/outdoor
                                                                             seating areas
Restaurants over 4,000 square feet                                           40 spaces, plus 1 space per each 80 square feet above 4,000 square feet of
                                                                             gross floor area, including indoor/outdoor seating areas
RETAIL COMMERCIAL:
(1) General retail uses, including supermarket, delicatessen, bakery, ice                                                                                  If retail food uses are proposed which include seating,
cream store and candy store (not included are restaurants, medical office,   1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area                               refer to restaurant, retail food
general office, financial and cinema)
                                                                                                                                                           Discount stores are freestanding stores; they usually
                                                                                                                                                           offer few services, centralized cashiering and a wide
(2) Discount stores                                                          1 space per 125 square feet of gross floor area                               variety of products; they are often the only store on a
                                                                                                                                                           site, but can also share facilities or function as part of
                                                                                                                                                           a community shopping center; discount stores conduct both
                                                                                                                                                           retail and wholesale operations
(3) Furniture and appliances                                                 1 space per 500 square feet of gross floor area
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-66) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2019-197, § 3,
passed 6-4-2019; Ord. 2021-210, § 54, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-67 ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS.
   (A)   An application for the installation of electric vehicle charging
stations shall be processed, reviewed and permitted in accordance with Title 8,
Chapter 1, Subchapter 12.
   (B)   Each EV charging space provided in a parking area counts as one space
toward the minimum number of parking spaces required in §§
9-1-63 and
9-1-65; provided that each EV charging space complies with the following design
and development standards.
      (1)   Each EV charging space shall include a posted sign and painted
curb, or ground markings, indicating that the space is exclusively for EV
charging purposes.
      (2)   EV charging equipment shall not obstruct any Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA) compliant sidewalk, entrance, curb-cut or ramp, while in
use or otherwise.
      (3)   Sufficient lighting shall be provided, at a minimum illumination
level of two footcandles (fc) and a maximum of three fc, to enable the EV
charging equipment to be used at night. The lighting height and shielding shall
conform to §§
9-1-45.14(C)(2)(b) and (C)(2)(d), respectively.
      (4)   The EV charging station shall not exceed a maximum height of eight
feet tall and maximum width of four feet.
      (5)   All cables and conduits shall be installed, laid or otherwise
placed beneath the ground surface. Above-ground cables and conduits are
prohibited.
      (6)   EV charging equipment shall be free of any commercial signage,
animated or flashing screens or other displays utilized for advertising
purposes.
      (7)   EV charging stations, including dispensers and ancillary equipment,
shall comply with the following location and aesthetic requirements.
         (a)   EV charging stations shall be installed, located or otherwise
positioned in such a manner as to ensure that they are not visibly obtrusive as
viewed from any public rights-of-way, including public streets and sidewalks.
         (b)   Ground equipment shall be fully concealed within a solid wall
enclosure that is located outside of the designated boundary landscape areas
and painted and designed in a manner that complements and harmonizes with the
adjacent building structures. Small ground equipment, less than 20 square feet
in footprint area and not exceeding a maximum height of four feet, shall be
exempt from the requirement to be concealed within an enclosure. The square
footage of the equipment footprint area shall be calculated by drawing a single
contiguous shape around all proposed ground equipment.
         (c)   The applicant may propose an alternative to the wall enclosure
for screening purposes, subject to the approval of the Community Development
Director. Such a request may be considered when it is assessed that the
dimensions or location of the wall enclosure could result in increased visual
intrusion, and diligent efforts are made to conceal or visually minimize ground
equipment through alternative screening measures.
(Ord. 2024-228, passed 5-21-2024)
§§ 9-1-68—9-1-69 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 7. SIGNS **
§ 9-1-70 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this article is to implement the goals and policies of the
general plan by:
   (A)   Encouraging sound signing practices to provide business and
directional information to the public;
   (B)   Providing for signs which effectively identify businesses and other
establishments via a limited number of clear readable signs, while preventing
excessive and confusing sign displays;
   (C)   Providing for signs which focus on identifying businesses by name and/
or type of establishment (such as “John’s Market”) as opposed to goods or
services offered (such as beer, wine and the like);
   (D)   Reducing traffic hazards and promoting the public health, safety and
welfare by minimizing visual competition among signs;
   (E)   Providing for signs which incorporate high quality design and
materials and which harmonize with surrounding buildings and streetscapes; and
   (F)   Providing minimum standards to safeguard and enhance property values
and protect public and private investment in buildings and open spaces.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-70) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-71 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   All references to this §
9-1-71 shall include §§
9-1-71.1 through
9-1-71.8. This section sets forth general provisions regulating such items as
the placement, design, illumination and measurement of signs.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-71) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-71.1 GENERAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Applicability. Signs in the city, including exempt, permanent and
temporary signs and holiday displays, are subject to the general procedures of
this section. If the Community Development Director determines that a staff-
reviewed sign does not conform to one or more of the general provisions set
forth in this section, the applicant shall be given the option of modifying the
sign or applying for a minor adjustment.
   (B)   Interpretation of provisions. Where a matter of interpretation arises
regarding the provisions of this article, the more specific definition or more
rigorous standard shall prevail. Whenever the Director determines that the
application of any provision of this article is uncertain, the interpretation
shall be referred to the Planning Commission for determination.
   (C)   Maintenance. Any sign displayed within the city, together with
supports, braces, guys, anchors and electrical components, shall be maintained
in good physical condition, including the replacement of defective parts.
Exposed surfaces shall be kept clean, in good repair and painted where paint is
required. The Director may order the repair or removal of any sign determined
by the Director to be unsafe, defective, damaged or substantially deteriorated.
   (D)   Changes to existing signs. Changes in the sign face and/or sign copy
of any existing sign, other than normal maintenance, shall be approved by the
Community Development Director to ensure that the new sign face and/or sign
copy is consistent with the sign design criteria set forth in §
9-1-71.4 and any applicable sign program.
   (E)   Inspection. All sign owners and users shall permit the periodic
inspection of their signs by the city upon ten days’ notice.
   (F)   Specific plan standards to apply. Signs to be located within the
boundaries of a specific plan or other special design approval area shall
comply with any criteria established by such plan or area.
   (G)   Non-commercial signs. Signs shall be permitted in the city in
accordance with this article. In each instance and under the same conditions in
which this article permits any sign, a non-commercial sign constructed to the
same physical dimensions and characteristics shall be permitted in lieu of that
sign.
      (1)   The foregoing notwithstanding, signs containing ideological,
political or other non-commercial messages shall not be permitted in lieu of a
directional, warning or informational signs required by or authorized by law or
by a governmental authority and traffic control signs on private property with
messages, such as “Stop” and “Yield”, and similar signs, the face of which meet
California Department of Transportation standards and bear no commercial
message of any sort.
      (2)   For purposes of this article, NON-COMMERCIAL means a sign
containing an ideological, political or other message not relating to a
commercial transaction.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-71.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2024-229, §
2, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 9-1-71.2 PURPOSE OF SIGNS TO BE IDENTIFICATION.
   Commercial signs shall serve primarily to identify the name of the business
or other activity on the premises rather than to advertise any product, service
or brand name. Brand names shall only be included in sign copy if the decision-
making authority determines that such a name is integral to identification of
the business (for example, a sign for an auto dealership).
(Prior Code, § 9-1-71.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-71.3 SIGN PLACEMENT.
   (A)   Traffic safety. No sign shall be located or designed in such a manner
as to obstruct free and clear vision of pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Corner cutoff setback. In order to preserve sight lines for safety
purposes, freestanding signs shall not be located within a corner cutoff area
for fences as identified in §
9-1-35.2.
   (C)   Off-premises signs. All signs shall be located on the same premises as
the land use or activity identified by the sign unless specifically permitted
to be off-premises in this article.
   (D)   Utility lines. No sign shall be located closer to overhead utility
lines than the distance prescribed by state law or by the rules promulgated by
agencies of the state or by the applicable public utility.
   (E)   Public right-of-way. No sign shall be located within, over or across a
public right-of-way unless specifically permitted in this article.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-71.3) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-71.4 SIGN DESIGN CRITERIA.
   The following design criteria shall be used in reviewing sign applications
to determine compliance with the purpose and intent of this article.
   (A)   Colors. Sign colors shall complement the colors used for the buildings
and the project as a whole. Colors or color combinations which interfere with
legibility of the sign copy or which interfere with viewer identification of
other signs shall not be used. Fluorescent, “day-glo” and similar colors shall
not be used.
   (B)   Materials. Signs shall be made of durable materials which are
compatible in kind and/or appearance to the building facades supporting or
identified by the sign. Such materials may include, but are not limited to,
tile, sandblasted wood, individual channel and reverse channel (“halo” lighted)
letters, “push-through” lettered signs and concrete or stucco monument signs
with recessed or raised lettering.
   (C)   Plastic-faced signs. Except for individually-mounted channel letters
or changeable copy signs such as theater marquees, internally-lighted
translucent plastic-faced can signs shall not be used. However, such plastic-
faced signs may be approved if existing similarly-situated and sized signs on
the same building are also plastic-faced. In such cases, light colored letters
on a dark or opaque background shall be used. In addition, can signs with
opaque backgrounds, such as those with fiberglass faces, may be used for
individual project tenants if approved by the decision-making body.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-71.4) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2000-115, §
3, passed 7-5-2000)
§ 9-1-71.5 SIGN ILLUMINATION.
   (A)   General limitation. Illumination from or upon any sign shall be
shaded, shielded, directed or reduced so as to avoid undue brightness and limit
glare or reflection of light onto residential property in the surrounding area.
UNDUE BRIGHTNESS means illumination in excess of that which is reasonably
necessary to make the sign readable to the average person. Externally
illuminated signs shall be lighted by screened or hidden light sources.
   (B)   Building-mounted signs. Building-mounted identification signs shall be
externally illuminated except for individually mounted channel and reverse
channel letters and permitted changeable copy signs, such as theater marquees.
Translucent plastic-faced can signs shall not be used.
   (C)   Freestanding signs. Freestanding identification signs shall be
externally illuminated, except for individually-mounted channel and reverse
channel letters, “push-through” letters, opaque background signs which give the
appearance of individual channel letters and permitted changeable copy signs,
such as theater marquees. Translucent plastic-faced can signs shall not be
used.
   (D)   Neon. Neon illumination may be used for building-mounted signs if
consistent with the design and architecture of the building. Neon shall not be
used on freestanding signs, except in conformity with an approved sign program.
Also, 60 milliamp transformers shall not be used on neon-lighted signs within
200 feet of residentially-zoned property.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-71.5) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-71.6 LOGOS AND GRAPHICS.
   (A)   Corporate logos and graphics may be used in conjunction with wall
signs, up to a maximum of 25% of the permitted sign area, if the decision-
making authority determines that the design of the logo provides for individual
channel-type construction and that such logos are harmonious in scale, form,
materials and colors with project buildings, walls and other structures.
   (B)   All copy and graphics within the logo shall be individual letters or
forms.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-71.6) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-71.7 LANDSCAPING OF FREESTANDING SIGNS.
   (A)   As part of their design, all freestanding signs shall include
landscaping and/or hardscaping around the base of the sign, at a minimum ratio
of two square feet for every square foot of sign area, so as to protect the
sign from vehicles, improve the appearance of the installation and screen light
fixtures and other appurtenances.
   (B)   The sign owner shall maintain all landscape areas in a healthy and
viable condition.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-71.7) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-71.8 MEASUREMENT OF SIGN HEIGHT AND AREA.
   (A)   Measurement of sign height. Sign height shall be measured as follows.
      (1)   Building-mounted signs. The height of a building-mounted sign shall
be measured at the sign’s mid-point, from finish grade to the top of the sign.
      (2)   Freestanding signs. The height of a freestanding sign shall be
measured at the sign’s mid-point, from finish grade to the top of the sign.
However, in cases where the Director determines that the visibility of a
freestanding sign is impeded due to its placement below the elevation of the
street to which it is oriented, the Director may measure maximum sign height
from the top of curb of the street (or the edge of pavement of such street
where there is no curb) or from such other appropriate reference point as
determined by the Director.
   (B)   Measurement of sign area. Sign area shall be measured as follows.
      (1)   Basic rule. Sign size or area shall be defined as the total area of
the sign face, including non-structural perimeter trim but excluding structures
or uprights on which the sign is supported.
      (2)   Window signs. Window sign area shall be considered to be the entire
area of any sign placed on or inside a window which is not painted directly on
the glass. For signs painted directly on the glass, area measurement shall be
the same as that for individually-lettered wall signs, following.
      (3)   Wall signs. The area of signs composed of individual letters
affixed to a building, garden, retaining or other wall shall be defined as the
area which encloses all copy, logos and graphics on the wall with four, six or
eight perpendicular lines.
      (4)   Double-faced signs. If a sign is double-faced with only one face
visible from any ground position at one time, its sign area shall be considered
to be the area of either face taken separately. Thus, if the maximum permitted
sign area is 20 square feet, a double-faced sign may have an area of 20 square
feet per face.
      (5)   Three-dimensional signs. If a sign has three or more faces, its
sign area shall be considered to be the sum of the areas of each individual
face. Thus, if a sign has four faces and the maximum permitted sign area is 20
square feet, the maximum area for each face shall be limited to five square
feet.
      (6)   Separated-panel signs. The sign area of open, separated panel or
“ladder” signs, i.e., those signs having empty spaces between copy panels,
shall be considered to be the entire area encompassed by the sign face,
including the empty spaces between panels.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-71.8) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-72 PERMITTED SIGNS IN NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permitted signs. Signs identified in Table 7-1 below are permitted in
nonresidential districts subject to the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Tenant or building frontage. For the purposes of this article, tenant
or building frontage means the side of a building facing a parking lot, public
or private street, driveway entrance or freeway right-of-way.
   (C)   Awning signs. For the purposes of this article, any signage
incorporated into an awning shall be considered a building mounted sign.
 
TABLE 7-1. PERMANENT SIGNS PERMITTED IN NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS WITH A SIGN
PERMIT
 
Note: Signs not visible from any street or parking lot are exempt from the
limitations set forth below.
ID means identification sign.
Signs required by law shall be allowed at the minimum size specified by such
law.
Sign Type and Maximum                                            Additional
Placement     Number of Maximum Area Maximum Height Illumination Requirements
              Signs
TABLE 7-1. PERMANENT SIGNS PERMITTED IN NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS WITH A SIGN PERMIT
 
Note: Signs not visible from any street or parking lot are exempt from the limitations set forth below.
ID means identification sign.
Signs required by law shall be allowed at the minimum size specified by such law.
Sign Type and Placement                                                   Maximum Number of Signs                                              Maximum Area Maximum      Illumination                                                                 Additional
                                                                                                                                                            Height                                                                                    Requirements
Freestanding identification signs for commercial office and other business uses.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Approval of site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      development permit
Freestanding monument ID signs: for commercial, office or other           1 per street frontage if the building site frontage is 100 feet or                                                                                                          required, unless
businesses or complexes. (Freestanding signs shall not be located within  more.* If frontage exceeds 400 lineal feet, the Planning Commission  50 square                 External, except for channel and reverse channel letters, “push-through” sign is consistent
5 feet of a street right-of-way and shall not interfere with sign         may approve additional freestanding signs as part of a sign program  feet per     6 feet       letters and opaque background signs which give the appearance of individual  with previously-
distance restrictions.)                                                   per §                                                               sign*                     channel letters                                                              approved sign
                                                                          9-1-76                                                                                                                                                                      program or master
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      site development
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      permit
* Signs on decorative garden walls or retaining walls (e.g., curved, angled or similar walls integrated into a project entry or perimeter) are encouraged. In cases where such walls are on both sides of an entry drive, 2 signs are permitted with a maximum size of
50 square feet each. Such walls may be up to 6 feet high provided the top of sign copy is no higher than 5 feet.
Building-mounted identification signs for commercial, office and other business uses - unless a sign program is approved per this article.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      The following
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      limitations shall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      apply unless
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      modified via minor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      site development
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      permit or sign
                                                                                                                                               Aggregate                                                                                              program:
                                                                                                                                               area of 1                                                                                              1. Accessory signs
                                                                                                                                               square feet                                                                                            are not permitted.
                                                                                                                                               per each                                                                                               2. Signs for
                                                                                                                                               lineal feet                                                                                            individual tenants
                                                                                                                                               of tenant                                                                                              shall be placed
                                                                                                                                               frontage                                                                                               only on the front
                                                                                                                                               (sign area                                                                                             of the store or
                                                                                                                                               to be                                                                                                  business.
                                                                                                                                               counted                                                                                                3. A maximum of
                                                                          Per tenant frontage facing a street, a common use parking lot or a   individually                                                                                           25% of allowed
                                                                          major project entry:                                                 by                                                                                                     sign area may
Building-mounted ID signs: for individual commercial, office or other     1 flush-mounted;                                                     frontage),                                                                                             consist of logo or
businesses in single tenant or multi-tenant buildings. Interior signs are 1 under canopy;                                                      up to a                   External, except for channel or reverse channel letters. Window signs may be graphics per §
permitted without a sign permit provided they are maintained a minimum    1 awning sign up to 10 square feet;                                  maximum of   Top of wall  neon                                                                         9-1-71.6.
distance of four feet from any window (measured from the glass)           All above signs to count against allowed aggregate area;             100 square                                                                                             4. Painted wall
                                                                          1 neon window sign and/or neon graphics per window, to count against feet                                                                                                   signs are not
                                                                          the overall size allocation for temporary window signs in §         aggregate                                                                                              permitted.
                                                                          9-1-74                                                               per tenant.                                                                                            5. Wall sign copy
                                                                                                                                               If a                                                                                                   shall be
                                                                                                                                               frontage is                                                                                            contiguous, with
                                                                                                                                               less than 25                                                                                           words separated by
                                                                                                                                               feet, signs                                                                                            no more than 3
                                                                                                                                               totaling up                                                                                            feet, rather than
                                                                                                                                               to 25 square                                                                                           spread over entire
                                                                                                                                               feet are                                                                                               wall.
                                                                                                                                               allowed on                                                                                             6. Individual ID
                                                                                                                                               that                                                                                                   signs are not
                                                                                                                                               frontage                                                                                               permitted for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tenants above the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ground floor in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      buildings with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      only interior
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      access above
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ground floor
See far right column for limitations on accessory signs, sign placement, logos, painted wall signs, wall sign copy and ID signs above the ground floor.
                                                                                                                                               1 square
                                                                                                                                               foot per
                                                                                                                                               each lineal
                                                                                                                                               feet of                                                                                                May identify
                                                                                                                                               building                                                                                               either name of
Building-mounted project ID signs: identifying a multi- tenant            2 signs                                                              frontage up  Top of wall  External, except for channel or reverse channel letters                      building or name
commercial, office or similar building or complex                                                                                              to maximum                                                                                             of major tenant,
                                                                                                                                               of 100                                                                                                 but only one name
                                                                                                                                               square feet                                                                                            per building
                                                                                                                                               aggregate
                                                                                                                                               per building
                                                                                                                                               side
Other signs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Signs are to be
Directory signs: building-mounted or freestanding for multi-tenant                                                                             20 square    Top of wall                                                                               designed and
buildings or complexes                                                    1 per entrance to building or complex                                feet         or 6 feet if External, except for channel or reverse channel letters                      oriented to direct
                                                                                                                                                            freestanding                                                                              visitors upon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      entry into project
                                                                          1 freestanding sign per street frontage, combining overall           50 square
                                                                          identification and gas prices**                                      feet         6 feet       Same as for freestanding commercial-office ID signs, preceding               Price sign must
                                                                                                                                               aggregate                                                                                              show the actual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      price per gallon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of all grades,
Gas/service station signs: identifying individual stations or “combo”                                                                                                                                                                             including taxes.
uses, which may combine a gas station with a car wash, convenience store,                                                                      100 square                                                                                             Sign program and
fast food restaurant and the like                                         1 building- or canopy-mounted ID sign per side of building or        feet         Top of wall  External, except for channel or reverse channel letters                      site development
                                                                          canopy, up to a maximum of 4 signs**                                 aggregate                                                                                              permit required
                                                                                                                                               overall                                                                                                for all gas/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      service stations.


** Maximum number and aggregate area applies to all uses/buildings on the site (gas station, car wash, fast food and the like). Other informational signs, such as “Official Smog Station”, may be building-mounted or incorporated into a permitted freestanding sign;
provided such signs do not exceed 4 square feet in area and are approved via a sign program or site development permit. Banner signs, flags, pennants, spinners and similar devices are prohibited. Also, no sign or advertising display shall be placed on or over fuel
islands.
                                                                                                                                               1 square
                                                                                                                                               feet per
                                                                                                                                               each lineal
                                                                                                                                               foot of
                                                                          1 building-mounted ID sign, per building frontage                    building     Top of wall  External, except for channel or reverse channel letters
                                                                                                                                               frontage up                                                                                            An additional
                                                                                                                                               to maximum                                                                                             freestanding
                                                                                                                                               of 100                                                                                                 attraction board
                                                                                                                                               square feet                                                                                            may be allowed if
                                                                                                                                               aggregate                                                                                              a site development
                                                                                                                                               Maximum                                                                                                permit is
Theater, cinema, and cabaret signs                                                                                                             aggregate:                                                                                             approved. Size and
                                                                                                                                               20 square                                                                                              height of such
                                                                                                                                               feet, plus                                                                                             signs shall be
                                                                                                                                               10 square                                                                                              generally
                                                                          1 building-mounted attraction board                                  feet per     Top of wall  Internal, with light letters on dark background.                             consistent with
                                                                                                                                               screen or                                                                                              commercial-office
                                                                                                                                               stage over                                                                                             ID signs,
                                                                                                                                               1, up to a                                                                                             preceding
                                                                                                                                               maximum of
                                                                                                                                               60 square
                                                                                                                                               feet
                                                                          1 building-mounted coming-attraction poster per screen or stage      6 square     Top of wall  External
                                                                                                                                               feet each
                                                                          *1 freestanding per street frontage                                  50 square    6 feet       Internal or external
                                                                                                                                               feet
                                                                                                                                               1 square
                                                                                                                                               foot per
                                                                                                                                               each lineal                                                                                            1 of the allowed
Institutional use signs (if located in multi-tenant building or complex,                                                                       foot of                                                                                                signs may include
commercial-office tenant standards, shall apply)                          *1 building-mounted per each sign of building                        building     Top of wall  Internal or external                                                         an attraction
                                                                                                                                               frontage up                                                                                            board
                                                                                                                                               to maximum
                                                                                                                                               of 100
                                                                                                                                               square feet
                                                                                                                                               aggregate
Signs in residential districts                                                                                                                                           See §
                                                                                                                                                                         9-1-73
Temporary signs                                                                                                                                                          See §
                                                                                                                                                                         9-1-74
Signs exempt from sign permit requirements                                                                                                                               See §
                                                                                                                                                                         9-1-75
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-72) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2000-115, § 3,
passed 7-5-2000; Ord. 2012-171, § 3, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 9-1-73 PERMITTED SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Signs identified in Table 7-2 below are permitted in residential districts
subject to the provisions of this section.
TABLE 7-2. PERMANENT SIGNS PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS WITH A SIGN
PERMIT
 
Note: Signs not visible from any street or parking lot are exempt from the
limitations set forth below.
ID means identification sign.
Signs required by law shall be allowed at the minimum size specified by such
law.
Sign Type and Maximum                                            Additional
Placement     Number of Maximum Area Maximum Height Illumination Requirements
              Signs
TABLE 7-2. PERMANENT SIGNS PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS WITH A SIGN
PERMIT
 
Note: Signs not visible from any street or parking lot are exempt from the
limitations set forth below.
ID means identification sign.
Signs required by law shall be allowed at the minimum size specified by such
law.
Sign Type and Maximum                   Maximum                   Additional
Placement     Number of    Maximum Area Height       Illumination Requirements
              Signs
Freestanding
community or
multi-family
project ID
signs -
placed on
garden,
perimeter or
retaining                                            External,    Approval of
walls.*       1 per        30 square                 except for   site
(Freestanding project      feet per     6 feet       channel and  development
signs shall   entry *      sign *                    reverse      permit
not be                                               channel      required
located                                              letters
within 5 feet
of a street
right-of-way
and shall not
interfere
with sight
distance
restrictions)
* In cases where such walls are on both sides of an entry street, 2 signs are
permitted with a maximum aggregate size of 40 square feet. A monument sign or
building-mounted sign may be approved if decision-making authority determines a
garden wall sign is not feasible.
Directory
signs -
building-                                                         Signs are to
mounted or    1 per                                               be designed
freestanding  entrance to  20 square    Top of wall  Internal or  and oriented
for multi-    building,    feet         or 6 feet if external     to direct
tenant        complex or                freestanding              visitors upon
buildings or  project                                             entry into
complexes or                                                      the project
gate-guarded
neighborhoods
Permanent
apartment
rental signs
- building-
mounted,      1 per street 6 square                  Indirect     Permanent
giving rental frontage     feet         6 feet       only         sign
information
for buildings
or complexes
containing 10
or more units
Signs in nonresidential districts                    See §
                                                     9-1-72
Temporary signs                                      See §
                                                     9-1-74
Signs exempt from sign permit requirements           See §
                                                     9-1-75
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-73) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2000-115, § 3,
passed 7-5-2000; Ord. 2012-171, § 4, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 9-1-74 PERMITTED TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   No sign permit required. Temporary signs permitted per this section
are exempt from the sign permit requirements set forth in this article, unless
otherwise stated herein.
   (B)   Special event signs. Temporary special event signs and banners are
allowed for commercial uses in nonresidential districts in accordance with §
9-1-45.12, subject to approval of a temporary use permit.
   (C)   Grand opening and similar signs. Temporary non-illuminated building-
mounted signs up to 20 square feet in area, reading “Grand Opening”, “Going Out
of Business” or “Under New Ownership”, may be permitted for a period of up to
30 days if a temporary use permit is approved.
   (D)   Temporary ID signs.
      (1)   In addition to the temporary grand opening and similar signs
allowed per division (C) above, new businesses may display a temporary
identification sign during the interim period while a permanent identification
sign is being approved, constructed and installed; provided that the size of
the sign does not exceed the maximum size permitted for the permanent wall
signs per §
9-1-72.
      (2)   Such temporary business identification signs are permitted for a
period of 30 days, subject to the approval of a temporary use permit, and may
be extended up to an additional 30 days if approved by the Community
Development Director.
   (E)   Window signs. Temporary non-illuminated window signs, in conjunction
with a commercial center or business, shall be permitted subject to the
following requirements.
      (1)   Total sign area shall not exceed 20% of the aggregate window area
per building frontage.
      (2)   Total number of signs shall be limited to one window sign for every
ten feet of linear window frontage.
      (3)   Fluorescent, neon or “day-glo” sign colors are prohibited.
   (F)   Residential real estate signs. Temporary non-illuminated on-premises
real estate signs advertising the sale, rent or lease of the property and the
identification of the person or firm handling the sale, lease or rent shall be
permitted on any building site subject to the following:
      (1)   For residential building sites with four or less units, total
aggregate sign area, including riders, shall not exceed six square feet per
sign face. For residential building sites with five or more units, total
aggregate sign area, including riders, shall not exceed 20 square feet;
      (2)   If located in a window, the real estate sign shall not cover more
than 20% of the window or window pane in which it is placed;
      (3)   Maximum height for freestanding signs shall be six feet and one
sign is permitted per street or golf course frontage up to a maximum of two
signs per building site;
      (4)   No part of any sign shall be placed between the back of the curb
and the sidewalk. Also, signs shall not be placed within a public right-of-way
or in areas adjacent to designated scenic corridors; and
      (5)   Signs shall be removed within five days after close of escrow,
lease or rent.
   (G)   Residential off-premises open house directional signs. Temporary non-
illuminated off-premises open house directional signs shall be permitted,
subject to the following.
      (1)   A maximum of two signs are permitted, each with a maximum area of
four square feet per sign face and a maximum height of four feet.
      (2)   Signs are permitted only when the premises are open for inspection
and when an owner or owner’s agent is on the premises and shall be installed no
earlier than 8:00 a.m. and removed no later than sunset.
      (3)   No part of any sign shall be placed between the back of the curb
and the sidewalk. Also, signs shall not be placed within a public right-of-way.
Signs may be posted on private property with the prior consent of the property
owner.
      (4)   Signs may be located only in the immediate vicinity of street
intersections and shall not be located mid-block, unless topography,
landscaping and/or other physical constraints interfere with sign visibility,
in which case the sign may be located more distant from the intersection. The
intent of the foregoing provision is to prohibit unnecessary multiple open
house signs located mid-block.
   (H)   Nonresidential real estate signs. Temporary non-illuminated on-
premises, nonresidential real estate signs advertising the sale, rent or lease
of the property and the identification of the person or firm handling the sale,
lease or rent, shall be permitted on any building site subject to the
following:
      (1)   One freestanding sign is permitted per street frontage;
      (2)   For freestanding signs, total aggregate sign area, including
riders, shall not exceed 22 square feet;
      (3)   Maximum height for freestanding signs shall be seven feet and
maximum width shall be four feet;
      (4)   (a)   No part of any freestanding sign shall be placed between the
back of the curb and the sidewalk.
         (b)   Where a sidewalk is present, signs shall be placed a minimum of
two feet behind the back of sidewalk.
         (c)   Where no sidewalk is present, signs shall be placed a minimum of
five feet behind the back of curb.
         (d)   Signs shall not interfere with sight distance restrictions.
      (5)   For lease spaces and individual suites, one window sign is
permitted per building frontage. The real estate sign shall not cover more than
20% of the window or window pane in which it is placed;
      (6)   For lease spaces and individual suites over 5,000 square feet or
stand-alone single-tenant buildings, one wall sign is permitted per street
frontage; provided that the size of the wall sign(s) does not exceed the
maximum size permitted for the permanent wall signs per §
9-1-72 and/or any approved sign program as appropriate; and
      (7)   Signs shall be removed within five days after close of escrow,
lease or rent.
   (I)   New residential projects.
      (1)   Sign programs may be approved per the standards of §
9-1-35.24 and the procedures of §
9-1-76 for off-premises directional signs, model home complex signs and other
temporary signs associated with a new residential development.
      (2)   Such programs may allow modified standards from those set forth in
this section provided the required findings for sign programs are met.
   (J)   Holiday window displays.
      (1)   Temporary signs and displays, in the nature of decorations, may be
placed in or painted on windows if incidental to and customarily associated an
official state or federal holiday.
      (2)   Such displays shall not advertise the business name or products.
      (3)   The display of animated “chase” lights is permitted only in the
month of December and only in association with Christmas.
   (K)   Construction signs. For nonresidential and tract-residential, one
construction sign, unlit and non-illuminated, stating the names of those
individuals or firms directly connected with the construction or development of
the project and their addresses and telephone numbers, shall be permitted on
any building site, subject to the following.
      (1)   Total aggregate sign area shall not exceed 32 square feet, and the
maximum height shall be six feet.
      (2)   No rider may be attached to the sign.
      (3)   No part of any sign shall be located within the area between the
back of curb and the sidewalk.
   (L)   Construction entrance signs. One sign, unlit and non-illuminated,
identifying the construction entrance for a project, shall be permitted on any
building site, subject to the following.
      (1)   Total aggregate sign area shall not exceed 24 square feet, and the
maximum height shall be six feet.
      (2)   No rider may be attached to the sign.
      (3)   No part of the sign shall be located within the area between the
back of curb and the sidewalk.
   (M)   Seasonal, temporary, non-commercial signs. Seasonal, temporary non-
commercial signs shall be permitted, subject to the following.
      (1)   Each sign shall not exceed four square feet in area and a maximum
height of five feet.
      (2)   Signs shall be placed no earlier than 45 days before a forthcoming
federal, state or local election in which the city voters participate.
      (3)   (a)   Signs must be removed no later than five days after said
election.
         (b)   If an election sign is not removed within five days after said
election, the city may recover costs for removal.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-74) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2000-115, § 3,
passed 7-5-2000; Ord. 2012-171, § 5, passed 7-17-2012; Ord. 2024-229, § 3,
passed 5-21-2024)
§ 9-1-75 SIGNS EXEMPT FROM PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The signs listed in Table 7-3 below do not require a sign permit, nor
shall their area and number be included in the aggregate area or number of
signs permitted for any premises or use.
   (B)   However, this exemption shall not be construed as relieving the sign
owner of the responsibility of:
      (1)   Obtaining any building or other permits required for sign erection,
if any;
      (2)   Proper sign maintenance; or
      (3)   (a)   Compliance with applicable provisions of this article or of
any other law or ordinance.
         (b)   Exempt signs shall not be placed within any public right-of-way,
unless specifically permitted in this section.
TABLE 7-3. SIGNS NOT REQUIRING A SIGN PERMIT
Sign Type Placement Maximum Area Illumination Allowed
In this table:
N/A means not applicable or no restriction
BUILDING-MOUNTED means signs mounted flush-to-wall only
TABLE 7-3. SIGNS NOT REQUIRING A SIGN PERMIT
Sign Type                                                                        Placement    Maximum   Illumination
                                                                                              Area      Allowed
In this table:
N/A means not applicable or no restriction
BUILDING-MOUNTED means signs mounted flush-to-wall only
(1) Official notices issued by any court or public body or officer and notices
posted by any public officer in the performance of a public duty or by any       N/A          N/A       N/A
person giving legal notice
                                                                                 Building-    1 square
(2) Within residential districts, address or identification signs                mounted      foot      No
                                                                                              aggregate
(3) Signs located in the interior of any building or enclosed outdoor area which
are designed and located to be viewed exclusively from within such building or   N/A          N/A       Yes
outdoor area
(4) Tablets, stained glass windows or dates of erection cut into the surface of  Building-    3 square
a wall or pedestal or projecting not more than two inches                        mounted or   feet      No
                                                                                 freestanding
(5) Directional, warning or informational signs required by or authorized by law
or by a governmental authority, including signs necessary for the operation and  N/A          N/A       Yes
safety of public utility uses
(6) Incidental accessory signs and placards (e.g., open/closed, hours of         Window or    3 square
operation, name plates, employment opportunity signs), six signs maximum per     building-    feet      No
premises                                                                         mounted      aggregate
(7) Temporary signs exempted per §                                              See §
9-1-74                                                                           9-1-74
(8) Signs associated with approved outdoor displays per §                       See §
9-1-45.11                                                                        9-1-45.11
(9) Sculptures, fountains, mosaics and design features which do not incorporate  N/A          N/A       Yes
advertising or premises identification
(10) Property signs (e.g., “No Trespassing”, “No Parking” and the like), Building-    3 square
informational/directional signs (e.g., “Restrooms”, “Exit” and the like) mounted or   feet      Yes
warning signs (e.g., “High Voltage”)                                         freestanding
(11) Vehicular directional signs used to identify street entrances and exits,    Building-    3 square
maximum three feet high if freestanding                                          mounted or   feet      Yes
                                                                                 freestanding
(12) Directional pavement marking                                                N/A          N/A       N/A
(13) Newspaper stand identification                                              N/A          3 square  No
                                                                                              feet
(14) Restaurant menu boards                                                      Building-    3 square  External
                                                                                 mounted      feet      only
(15) Vending machine signs and automatic teller signs                            Machine-     Machine-  Yes
                                                                                 mounted      mounted
(16) Directional and non-profit public information signs for public, quasi-
public and non-profit uses on public or private property, adjacent to an                      3 square
arterial thoroughfare. Number, shape, location and height (maximum 6-feet) of    Freestanding feet      No
signs shall be approved by the Director of Community Development and Public
Works
(17) Within residential zones, incidental temporary decorative flags             Building-    7 square  No
                                                                                 mounted      feet
Signs in nonresidential districts requiring a permit                             See §
                                                                                 9-1-72
Signs in residential districts requiring a permit                                See §
                                                                                 9-1-73
Temporary signs                                                                  See §
                                                                                 9-1-74
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-75) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2000-115, § 3,
passed 7-5-2000)
§ 9-1-76 SIGN PROGRAMS.
   (A)   Purpose. Sign programs are intended to provide incentive and latitude
in order to achieve variety, effective identification, attractive appearance
and coordinated design for multi-tenant centers and other applicable projects.
   (B)   Modifications to standards. The standards of this article relating to
sign number, placement, size and height may be modified for signs in an
approved sign program provided all requirements of this section are satisfied.
   (C)   Applicability. Sign programs shall be required for all shopping
centers, office complexes, business parks and similar projects. In addition,
freestanding business uses over 10,000 square feet in gross floor area,
multiple centers or building sites sharing a common access and other projects
identified in this code are also eligible for approval of sign programs.
   (D)   Procedures.
      (1)   Sign programs shall be approved via a site development permit per §
9-1-114. All permanent signs subject to an approved sign program shall be
consistent with that sign program. In cases where a sign program has not been
adopted, individual signs shall be subject to approval of a sign permit per §
9-1-78.1.
      (2)   The decision-making authority, upon completion of its review, may
attach appropriate conditions to any sign program approval.
      (3)   The following findings are required for approval of a sign program
in addition to the other findings required for approval of a site development
permit.
         (a)   The sign program is consistent with the purpose and intent of
this article.
         (b)   All signs within the sign program are visually coordinated via
the incorporation of several common design elements, such as materials, letter
style, colors, illumination, sign type or sign shape.
         (c)   The signs within the sign program relate visually to the
buildings, storefronts or tenant spaces they identify. This may be accomplished
by utilizing materials, colors or design motif of the building being
identified.
   (E)   Pre-1990 sign programs. For any sign program adopted prior to January
1, 1990, the Community Development Director shall determine if new signs or
sign modifications subject to the program are consistent with the sign
regulations in this article. Upon submittal of an application for a sign
permit, the Director shall determine if the sign is of superior design and if
it meets the intent of these regulations. If the Director determines that the
proposed sign is not consistent, the sign(s) shall be permitted only upon
approval of a site development permit per §
9-1-114.
   (F)   Submission materials. Applications for a sign program shall be
accompanied by the following plans in addition to other applicable site
development permit application materials:
      (1)   Site plan. A plan, drawn to scale, delineating the site proposed to
be included with the sign program;
      (2)   Building elevations. Drawings and/or sketches indicating the
exterior surface details of all structures on the site;
      (3)   Identification signs. Drawings, to scale, indicating the sign copy
size, method and intensity of illumination, height, sign area and location of
all signs; and
      (4)   Ancillary signs. The sign program submission shall include all
ancillary signs, such as interior directional and traffic control signs,
handicap parking signs, liability disclosure signs, address number and the
like, and shall show size, location and design of each such sign.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-76) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-77 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   The signs and displays listed in this section are prohibited in the
city. Such signs are subject to removal by the city at the owner’s or user’s
expense.
   (B)   Prohibited signs include the following:
      (1)   Any sign not in accordance with the provisions of this article;
      (2)   Painted wall signs;
      (3)   Abandoned signs;
      (4)   Rotating, revolving or otherwise moving signs;
      (5)   Automobile, truck, trailer and other signs affixed to vehicles
which advertise, identify or provide direction to a use or activity not related
to making of deliveries or rendering services which are used exclusively or
primarily for advertising, unless specifically permitted;
      (6)   Flags, balloons, pennants, streamers, spinners, festoons,
windsocks, valances or similar displays, unless specifically permitted via a
site development permit or other applicable permit;
      (7)   Animated or flashing signs;
      (8)   Portable signs, unless specifically permitted in this article;
      (9)   Off-premises signs, unless specifically permitted in this article;
      (10)   Billboards or outdoor advertising signs;
      (11)   Signs which identify or advertise activities which are illegal
under federal, state or local laws in effect at the location of such signs or
activities;
      (12)   Building-mounted signs placed on or above the roof or above the
eave line of any structure;
      (13)   Signs which, by reason of their size, location, movement, content,
coloring or manner of illumination, may be confused with or construed as a
traffic-control sign, signal or device, or the light of an emergency vehicle,
or which obstruct the visibility of any traffic or street sign or signal
device;
      (14)   Signs that create a potential safety hazard by obstructing clear
views of pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
      (15)   (a)   Signs located upon or projecting over public streets,
sidewalks or rights-of-way unless the sign meets the criteria of division (15)
(b) below.
         (b)   Seasonal, temporary, non- commercial signs shall only be
permitted in the public rights-of-way depicted in Figure 7.1, subject to the
following requirements.
            1.   Signs shall be securely affixed and positioned in a manner
that ensures public safety and prevents any risk of accidents or hazards.
            2.   Notwithstanding §
9-1-74(M)(1), total aggregate sign area shall not exceed four square feet in
area and a maximum height of three feet.
            3.   Signs must comply with the requirements of §
9-1-74(M)(2) and (M)(3).
            4.   No more than three signs with the same message may be
permitted for each designated area.
            5.   No part of any sign shall be placed between the back of the
curb and the sidewalk when the sidewalk abuts the curb.
            6.   Signs and sign placement shall not cause damage to the site,
including landscaping, irrigation or city property.
            7.   Signs shall not be affixed to any utility at the site,
including hydrant, street, traffic signs, utility poles, wires, boxes or any
landscaping, including trees, shrubs, tree stakes or protective guards.
            8.   Signs shall not obscure visibility or access to fire hydrants,
traffic signs or traffic signals; block motorists’ line of sight; or otherwise
inhibit or interfere with vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
            9.   Signs shall not block any safety sign or notice or official or
legal notices issued by any court or public body or officer in the performance
of a public duty.
            10.   No flags, pennants, balloons or other attention-attracting
devices shall be affixed to or otherwise displayed in conjunction with the
sign.
            11.   The foregoing notwith- standing, division (B)(15) shall not
apply to directional, warning or informational signs required by or authorized
by law or by a governmental authority, including signs necessary for the
operation and safety of public utility uses.
            12.   The city makes no representations about the conditions, from
time to time, of the identified signage locations and hereby puts all persons
on notice that the conditions of the property is uncertain and all persons’ use
of the property is at their sole risk. The city notes that soil conditions,
traffic conditions, weather conditions and the acts of third parties may put
person(s) and property placed pursuant to this section at risk and further,
that the person(s), groups and supporters of any person, group or entity does
so at their own risk and, for themselves, their heirs and assigns, releases,
waives and indemnifies, and hold harmless the city, including its elected
officials, officers, staff, employees and contractors, from all damages,
awards, payments, claim or reimbursement, of all types and nature, that may,
from time to time, arise while utilizing this section and the rights accorded
herein and pursuant to this section.
      (16)   Signs attached to utility poles or stop signs or other municipal
sign structure;
      (17)   Balloon signs, inflatable animal or other figures or other
inflatable displays, whether tethered or not, except as otherwise permitted by
a temporary or special outdoor event permit;
      (18)   Signs located closer to overhead utility lines than the minimum
distance prescribed by state law, or by the rules duly promulgated by agencies
of the state or by the applicable public utility;
      (19)   “For Sale” signs affixed to vehicles parked on public right-of-way
or on any vacant property;
      (20)   Neon signs, except those specifically approved as an activity’s
major identification sign;
      (21)   Signs drawn or painted onto or otherwise affixed to trees or rocks
unless specifically permitted in this article;
      (22)   Advertising statuary;
      (23)   Any temporary sign or banner unless specifically permitted in this
article;
      (24)   External displays, other than temporary decorative holiday
lighting or holiday displays, which consist of unshielded light bulbs or
festoons and strings of open lightbulbs; and
      (25)   Persons or animals used for advertising purposes to attract
attention to a use or activity on public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-77) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2000-115, § 3,
passed 7-5-2000; Ord. 2024-229, § 4, 5-21-2024)
§ 9-1-78 ADMINISTRATION.
   All references to this §
9-1-78 shall include §§
9-1-78.1 through
9-1-78.3. This section provides regulations and procedures for administering
the approval of signs and rules governing the continuation and/or abatement of
nonconforming, illegal and abandoned signs.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-78) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-78.1 SIGN PERMITS.
   (A)   Sign permit required. Sign permit approval is required prior to
obtaining a building permit for the placing, erecting, moving, reconstructing,
altering or displaying any sign on private property within the city, unless the
sign is exempt from permit requirements per §
9-1-75 or other provisions of this article. The Director may integrate required
sign permits into the building permit application and process or into other
applicable permit process.
   (B)   Existing signs. Signs legally existing prior to the effective date of
the ordinance codified in this article shall not require a sign permit until
such time as the sign is moved, structurally altered, changed or relocated; at
which time, the review and approval provisions of this section shall apply
before a sign permit and/or building permit is issued.
   (C)   Submission materials. Plans, application forms and other submission
materials for sign permit applications shall be as specified by the Community
Development Director.
   (D)   Review procedures. The Director shall review sign applications and
shall determine to either approve, approve with modification or deny the
application. No sign permit application shall be approved, unless the Director
finds that the proposed sign conforms to the provisions of this article.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-78.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-78.2 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Continuation of nonconforming signs.
      (1)   A nonconforming sign is any permanent or temporary sign which was
legally established and maintained in conformance with the provisions of all
applicable laws in effect at the time of original installation but which does
not comply with the provisions of this article.
      (2)   Such nonconforming signs may be continued and maintained provided:
         (a)   The sign is properly maintained and does not constitute a danger
to the public; and
         (b)   The sign was covered by a valid permit or variance or complied
with all applicable laws on the date of adoption of the ordinance codified in
this article.
   (B)   Rules. A nonconforming sign shall not be:
      (1)   Changed to another nonconforming sign or removed and then replaced
as the same nonconforming sign;
      (2)   Expanded or altered unless such alteration is designed to bring the
sign into full conformance with all current provisions of this article;
      (3)   Relocated to another site on the same property or any other
property; or
      (4)   Re-established after abandonment as defined in §
9-1-78.3.
   (C)   Damage or destruction. Any nonconforming sign which is damaged or
destroyed beyond 50% its value shall be removed or brought into conformity with
the provisions of this chapter. The determination whether a sign is damaged or
destroyed beyond such 50% of value shall rest with the Community Development
Director and shall be based upon the actual cost of replacing said sign.
   (D)   Burden on owner. The burden of establishing a sign as legally
nonconforming under this section rests upon the person or persons, firm or
corporation claiming legal status for a sign.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-78.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-78.3 ENFORCEMENT AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement responsibility. It shall be the duty of the Director or
the Director’s authorized representative to enforce the provisions of this
article.
   (B)   Illegal signs. Any sign which does not have a required permit or which
otherwise violates applicable provisions of this article shall be deemed
illegal. If the Director determines a sign to be illegal, the Director may
order the property owner and/or sign owner to remove the sign or may require
other actions to ensure compliance with this article.
   (C)   Abandoned signs. Any sign located on property which becomes vacant or
unoccupied or which pertains to any occupant or business unrelated to the
premises’ present occupant or business, or which pertains to a time, event or
purpose which no longer applies shall be deemed abandoned. Such signs shall be
removed, along within any footings, poles and ground or wall supports, within
30 days after the associated enterprise or occupant has vacated the premises or
within 30 days after the time, event or purpose associated with the sign has
ended. Any such sign not removed within the required period shall constitute a
nuisance and shall be subject to immediate removal. In the event that an
internally-lighted “can” type sign is abandoned, the Director may allow the can
portion to remain; provided a blank opaque sign face, with a color consistent
with other can-type signs within the project, is installed within the preceding
30-day time frame.
   (D)   Expired temporary signs. A temporary sign which remains posted beyond
the time limits set per §
9-1-74 shall be removed immediately upon notification of the applicable
business owner or property owner by the Director.
   (E)   Abatement and removal of signs. Any illegal or abandoned sign may be
deemed to be a public nuisance that poses an immediate danger to the health,
safety and welfare of the community. The owner of the sign shall be responsible
and liable for the removal and disposal of the sign.
   (F)   No city liability. Neither the city nor any of its agents shall be
liable for any damage to a sign which is removed under this section.
   (G)   Legal action by city. In response to any violation of the provisions
of this article, the city may elect to file a criminal complaint against the
violator, issue a citation to the violator for an “infraction”, pursuant to
California Government Code, § 36900, or institute a civil action in a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-78.3) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-79 SIGN DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign which is located on property which becomes vacant or
unoccupied or which pertains to any occupant or business unrelated to the
premises’ present occupant or business, or a sign which pertains to a time,
event or purpose which no longer applies.
   ACCESSORY SIGN. A sign whose copy refers to the products, facilities or
services available on the premises and/or pricing information, phone numbers or
hours of operation.
   ADVERTISING STATUARY. An imitation or representation of a person or thing
which is sculptured, molded, modeled or cast in any solid or plastic substance,
material or fabric and used to identify or advertise a product or service.
   ADVERTISING VEHICLES. Any vehicle or trailer on a public right-of-way or
public property or on private property so as to be visible from a public right-
of-way which has attached thereto, or located thereon, any sign or advertising
device for the basic purpose of providing advertisement of products or
directing people to a business or activity located on the same or nearby
property or any other premises. This provision is not to be construed as
prohibiting the identification of a firm or its principal products on a vehicle
operating during normal course of business. Public buses or taxis are exempt
from this prohibition.
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign which includes action or motion or the optical
illusion of action or motion, or color changes of all or any part of the sign
facing, requiring electrical energy or set in motion by movement of the
atmosphere. Excluded from the definition are public service message center
signs and flags.
   ATTRACTION BOARD. A sign capable of supporting copy which is readily
changeable without the use of tools, such as a theater marquee, and which
refers to products, services or coming events on the premises.
   BANNER or BANNER SIGN. A sign hung either with or without frames, possessing
written communication applied to nonrigid paper, plastic or fabric of any kind.
   BILLBOARD. An off-premises sign with changing advertising copy or other
changing copy.
   BUILDING-MOUNTED SIGN. A sign affixed to a building, painted directly on a
wall or erected against the wall of a building. BUILDING- MOUNTED SIGNS include
awning signs, fascia signs, mansard roof signs, wall signs, window signs,
projecting signs and under-canopy signs.
   BULLETIN BOARD. A board, kiosk or wall area on which are affixed personal
notices, lost-and-found notices, business cards and similar small informal
notices referring to products, services, activities or other items not offered
on the same premises. The term BULLETIN BOARD shall not include business
identification signs or attraction boards.
   BUSINESS. A commercial, office, institutional or industrial establishment.
   CANOPY. A fixed structure of any material and any length, projecting from
and connected to a building and/or columns and posts from the ground, or
supported by a frame extending from the building and/or posts from the ground.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN or FUTURE FACILITY CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A sign containing
information pertaining to a future development on the site where the sign is
located, including the name of the project, the developer, contractor,
financing source, future occupant(s) and other information directly related to
the development.
   COPY or SIGN COPY. Any words, letters, numbers, figures, designs or other
symbolic representations incorporated onto the face of a sign.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. Any sign which is designed and erected solely for the
purpose of traffic or pedestrian direction and which is placed on the property
to which or on which the public is directed. Such a sign contains no
advertising copy. (Examples are: “one-way”, “entrance”, “exit”, “parking in
rear”, “15 mph”, “no left turn”.)
   DIRECTOR or COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR. The Community Development
Director for the city or the Director’s authorized agent or representative.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD SIGN. A sign with a fixed or changing display
composed of a series of lights.
   EXEMPT SIGN. A sign which is designated in this code as not subject to
certain regulations.
   FACE OF BUILDING WALL. The outer surface of any main exterior wall or
foundation of a building, including windows and store fronts.
   FLAG. A visual display device without copy, made of flexible material,
usually cloth, paper or plastic.
   FLASHING SIGN. Any sign which contains an intermittent or flashing light
source or which includes the illusion of intermittent or flashing light by
means of animation or an externally mounted intermittent light source. Excluded
from the definition are public service message center signs.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign supported upon the ground and not attached to any
building. This definition includes monument signs and ground signs.
   GARAGE SALE SIGN (i.e., yard sales, moving sales, patio sales). A sign used
to announce sale of a used item or items.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN or ID SIGN. A sign which serves to identify only the
name of a building, business, office, establishment, person, activity or lawful
use of the premises upon which it is located and which does not include goods
or services available, pricing information, phone numbers or hours of
operation. IDENTIFICATION SIGN may include brand names if such names are
integral to the name of the business (e.g., “Tom Jones Ford”).
   ILLUMINATION. The method by which a sign is lighted so as to be readable at
night. The following types of ILLUMINATION are provided for in this article:
      (1)   EXTERNAL ILLUMINATION. The lighting of an opaque sign face from a
light source mounted in front of the face; and
      (2)   INTERNAL ILLUMINATION. The lighting of the sign face from behind so
that the light shines through translucent sign copy or lighting via neon or
other gases within translucent tubing incorporated onto or into the sign face.
      LOGO. A trademark or symbol of an organization.
   MANSARD ROOF SIGN. Any sign attached to or supported by a mansard roof. A
MANSARD ROOF is a roof having two slopes, the lower steeper than the upper and
having a slope of 60 degrees or greater with the horizontal plane.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A freestanding sign mounted on a low-profile solid base or a
fence, or a freestanding wall, as distinguished from support by poles.
   MULTI-TENANT BUILDING. A development in which there exists a number of
separate activities, in which there are appurtenant shared facilities (such as
parking or pedestrian mall), and which is designed to provide a single area in
which the public can obtain varied products and services. Distinguishing
characteristics of a MULTI-TENANT BUILDING may, but need not, include common
ownership of the property upon which the center is located, common-wall
construction and multiple-occupant use of a single building.
   NEON SIGN. A sign which utilizes neon or other gases within translucent
tubing in or on any part of the sign structure.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A which is not appurtenant to the use of the property
where the sign is located or a product sold or a service offered upon the
property where the sign is located, and which does not identify the place of
business where the sign is located as a purveyor of the merchandise or services
advertised upon the sign. Some temporary signs are not defined as OFF-PREMISES
SIGNS as used within this article.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign referring to a person, establishment, merchandise,
service, event or entertainment which is located, sold, produced, manufactured,
provided or furnished on the premises where the sign is located.
   PARAPET WALL. A wall extending above the roof plane of the building.
   PERMANENT SIGN. Any sign which is intended to be and is so constructed as to
be a lasting and enduring condition, remaining unchanged in character,
condition (beyond normal wear) and position and in a permanent manner affixed
to the ground, wall or building; provided the sign is listed as a permanent
sign in this article.
   POLITICAL CAMPAIGN SIGN or POLITICAL SIGN. A sign indicating the name and/or
picture of an individual seeking election to a public office, or relating to a
forthcoming public election, referendum, initiative or to the advocating by
persons, groups or parties of political views or policies.
   PORTABLE SIGN or MOBILE SIGN. A sign made of any material, which, by its
design, is readily movable and is equipped with wheels, casters or rollers or
which is not permanently affixed to the ground, structure or building, or a
sign upon a vehicle or trailer used as a stationary advertising display, the
primary purpose of which is to serve as a base or platform for the sign (also
includes sidewalk or sandwich board signs).
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property other than public property.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign with two parallel faces no more than 18 inches
apart projecting 12 inches or more from the wall or eaves of a building. No guy
wires, braces or secondary supports are visible.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any real or personal property in which the city or any
other governmental entity or any publicly regulated utility company possesses
an ownership interest. PUBLIC PROPERTY shall include, without limitation, any
street, sidewalk, curb, curbstone, street lamp post, hydrant, tree, tree stake
or guard, railroad trestle, electric light, power, telephone or telegraph wire,
pole or appurtenance thereof, any fixture of a fire alarm or police telephone
or telegraph system, any lighting system, public bridge or wall, drinking
fountain, life buoy, life preserver, lifesaving equipment, street, sign,
traffic sign or signal, street median, public park or other publicly-owned
property or structure.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign advertising the sale, lease or rent of the property
upon which it is located and the identification of the person or firm handling
such sale, lease or rent.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet wall of a
building or placed above the apparent flat roof or eaves of a building.
   SEASONAL SALES SIGN. A sign used to advertise a business or merchandise held
seasonally for a limited interval, all or most of whose business is conducted
or whose merchandise is displayed in an outdoor area.
   SIGN. Any medium for visual communication, including, but not limited to,
words, symbols and illustrations, together with all parts, materials, frame and
background, which is used or intended to be used to attract attention to,
identify or advertise an establishment, product, service, activity or location,
or to provide information.
   SIGN AREA. Defined in §
9-1-71.8.
   SIGN FACE. The exterior surface of a sign exclusive of structural supports,
on which is placed the sign copy.
   SIGN HEIGHT, HEIGHT OF SIGN or HEIGHT. Defined in §
9-1-71.8.
   SIGN PERMIT. An entitlement from the city to place or erect a sign.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. The structural supports, uprights and bracing for a sign.
   SPECIAL EVENT SIGN. A sign used to announce a special commercial event, such
as a sale, sidewalk sale or parking lot sale, or a community event, such as a
circus, carnival, festivals or similar event.
   UNDER-CANOPY SIGN. A sign suspended beneath a projecting canopy, walkway
cover, awning, ceiling or marquee.
   WALL SIGN. A sign attached to, erected on, painted on or otherwise affixed
to the exterior wall of a building or structure in such a manner that the face
of the sign is approximately parallel to the exterior wall of the building and
exposed to the exterior side of the building. Signs or advertising displays in
or on windows are not considered WALL SIGNS.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any sign painted on or attached to a window or located inside
within a distance equal to the greatest dimension of the window (either width
or height) and designed to be viewed from the outside of the building in which
the window is located.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-79) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
ARTICLE 8. HILLSIDE PROTECTION
§ 9-1-80 SHORT TITLE.
   This article may be cited and referred to as “the hillside protection
ordinance” or “the HPO”.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-80) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-81 HILLSIDE PROTECTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and goals. The purpose of the hillside protection regulations
contained in this article is to achieve the following goals:
      (1)   To protect the public health and safety by preserving very steep
hillsides in open space and by minimizing geologic hazards, erosion and other
potential dangers associated with hillside areas;
      (2)   To minimize impacts in hillside areas to endangered, threatened or
rare species of flora and fauna; and
      (3)   To ensure that any permitted hillside development conforms to the
character of the natural topography and that the visual impacts of grading are
softened by requiring designs which incorporate slope undulation, blending and
other features to reflect the natural terrain.
   (B)   Hillside protection policies. City policies aimed at achieving the
hillside protection goals set out in division (A) above shall be as follows.
      (1)   Development restrictions in steep areas. Development should be
restricted in steep areas in order to ensure development safety and limit the
amount of grading required for development.
      (2)   Limitations on earth movement. The amount of earth movement for
hillside development should be limited both in quantities moved within a site,
in order to limit landform alteration, and quantities imported or exported, in
order to limit dirt hauling on city streets.
      (3)   Contouring of manufactured slopes. Manufactured slopes should be
designed to resemble natural hillside contours and should blend with natural
terrain where the two join in order to visually integrate development into the
natural hillside.
      (4)   Slope and retaining wall heights. The height of manufactured slopes
and retaining walls should be restricted in order to limit the size and
accompanying visual impacts of human-made slopes and structures on the
hillside.
      (5)   Landscaping and other visual mitigation. Intensive slope
landscaping and other mitigation measures should be required in order to screen
and soften the intrusive appearance of hillside building and grading.
      (6)   Protection of biological resources. Development impacts to
endangered, threatened or rare species of flora and fauna and sensitive
biological habitats should be avoided or mitigated, consistent with state and
federal definitions and regulations, in order to preserve environmental quality
and diversity.
   (C)   Hillside protection standards. In order to control and soften the
visual impacts of hillside development, ensure the safety and stability of such
development and implement the hillside protection policies set forth in
division (B) above, the following standards shall apply to all projects subject
to this section. The Planning Commission shall use its assessment of overall
compliance with these hillside protection standards as the primary criterion
for determining if a project complies with the hillside protection policies of
division (B) above. The applicable hillside protection policy is shown
preceding the standards which directly support that policy.
      (1)   Policy. Development restrictions in steep areas.
      (2)   Standard No. 1: Grading on steep slopes. Grading on slopes with a
gradient of 30% or more shall be prohibited unless the Planning Commission
approves an exception pursuant to division (D) below. Such an exception shall
be approved only if the Planning Commission finds, after review of a
geotechnical study by a professional engineer or engineering geologist
registered in the state, that:
         (a)   Such increased grading is necessary in order to utilize the most
feasible development locations on the property (for purposes of this standard,
the term FEASIBLE means capable of attaining the project’s objectives at
reasonable cost and within a reasonable length of time); or
         (b)   1.   Such increased grading is necessary to implement corrective
measures so as to ensure safe and stable development of the developable
portions of the property, and project design alternatives, such as relocation
of development areas or reduction in the size of the project, are not
sufficient to eliminate the need for the corrective grading.
            2.   For purposes of determining the extent of slope areas over
30%, slope gradients shall be averaged over horizontal 100-foot intervals
measured perpendicular to the contour lines. (See sketch below.)
      (3)   Policy. Limitations on earth movement.
      (4)   Standard No. 2: Grading quantities. Grading quantities, both within
a site and in cubic yards imported or exported, shall be the minimum that the
Planning Commission determines is needed to:
         (a)   Accommodate reasonable development of the site; and
         (b)   Facilitate conformance of the project with the other hillside
protection standards contained in this section.
      (5)   Policy. Contouring of manufactured slopes.
      (6)   Standard No. 3: Blending. The tops and toes of manufactured slopes
shall be contoured and landscaped to blend into adjacent terrain. A smooth
gentle transition shall be made where the planes of manufactured and natural
slopes intersect. (See Figures 8.1 and 8.2 below.)
      (7)   Standard No. 4: Undulation. Manufactured slopes over six feet in
height shall be designed to reflect the appearance of the surrounding natural
hillsides and to avoid long flat-planed surfaces. This shall be achieved by
means of slope undulation, i.e., by curving both the tops and toes of slopes
and varying the slope gradient from the 2:1 maximum steepness on some portions
to flatter ratios such as 5:1 on others. (See Figures 8.1 and 8.2 below.)
      (8)   Standard No. 5: Street alignment. Where streets and driveways are
approved to cross areas of over 30% slope gradient, they shall be aligned to
conform to natural grades as much as possible consistent with emergency access
acceptable to the Fire Department.
      (9)   Policy. Slope and retaining wall heights.
      (10)   Standard No. 6: Height of slopes. Manufactured slopes shall not
exceed 60 feet in vertical height, nor shall more than one terrace drain be
used on such slopes. In addition, slopes 30 to 60 feet in height may be tiered
one above the other only if there is a minimum horizontal separation of 100
feet (at less than 10% gradient) between the top of the lower slope and the toe
of the slope above it. (See Figure 8.1 below.)
      (11)   Standard No. 7: Height of retaining walls. Retaining walls and
crib walls shall not exceed six feet in height and shall be planted with vines
and/or other landscape screening. Where the Planning Commission finds that
greater retaining is needed, it may approve a tier of up to three such walls
(up to six feet high each) placed one above the other, provided a minimum of
six feet of horizontal landscaped terrace is placed between each pair of walls.
(See Figure 8.1 below.)
FIGURE 8.1. ILLUSTRATION OF HILLSIDE PROTECTION STANDARDS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4379.jpg]
 
FIGURE 8.2. CONTOURING DO’S AND DON’T’S
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4381.jpg]
 
      (12)   Policy. Landscaping and other visual mitigation.
      (13)   Standard No. 8: Landscaping.
         (a)   Landscaping of greater intensity than that normally required for
non-hillside projects shall be incorporated into all hillside projects to
soften the visual impacts of both grading and building. Landscaping plans shall
be of predominantly drought tolerant varieties and shall include, where
determined appropriate by the Planning Commission, the use of:
            1.   Native species; and/or
            2.   Reclaimed water for irrigation.
         (b)   In addition, landscape planting on manufactured slopes shall
conform to the following minimum standards:
            1.   Trees: minimum size five-gallon, with at least 30% to be a
minimum of ten feet high (not including container height). Minimum density:
average 25 feet on center;
            2.   Shrubs: minimum size one-gallon, with at least 30% to be five-
gallon. Minimum density: average ten feet on center;
            3.   Vines: as required to augment ground cover and provide
screening for retaining walls; and
            4.   Ground cover: hand-planted plugs with minimum density of one
foot on center, or other density as approved by the Community Development
Director, or hydroseeding utilizing seed mixture approved by the Director.
Either of the preceding methods or a combination of the two shall be
sufficient, in the Director’s judgment, to meet a goal of 100% slope coverage
within one year of planting.
      (14)   Standard No. 9: Terraces and downdrains. The visual impacts of
drainage terraces and downdrains shall be lessened by the use of river rock,
colored gunite, colored concrete or other treatments which produce a softened
natural appearance. Terrace benches shall be of sufficient width to provide for
visual screening of terrace drains by means of berming or similar design
measures.
      (15)   Standard No. 10: Outdoor lighting. The quantity and intensity of
street, pedestrian and other outdoor lighting shall, subject to minimum
pedestrian and traffic safety standards, be less than that normally required
for nonhillside projects and shall be shielded to focus only on the street,
sidewalk or other area to be illuminated.
      (16)   Policy. Protection of biological resources.
      (17)   Standard No. 11: Preservation of existing vegetation. Hillside
development shall accommodate the preservation of existing vegetation on those
portions of the site to be preserved in open space wherever such preservation
is determined by the Planning Commission to be consistent with:
         (a)   Fire safety requirements; and
         (b)   The other hillside protection standards contained in this
section.
      (18)   Standard No. 12: Impacts on flora and fauna. Development impacts
to endangered, threatened or rare species of flora and fauna and sensitive
biological habitats shall be thoroughly identified and analyzed during the
environmental review process for a project. Identified impacts shall be avoided
or mitigated to the greatest extent feasible. For purposes of this standard,
the term FEASIBLE means capable of being accomplished in a successful manner
within a reasonable period of time taking into account economic, environmental,
legal, social and technological factors (CEQA (being California Public
Resources Code) § 21061.1 and State CEQA Guidelines (being California Code of
Regulations, Title 14) § 15364).
   (D)   Exceptions to hillside standards.
      (1)   Findings for approval.
         (a)   In reviewing a project application, the Planning Commission may
grant relief from full compliance with one or more of the hillside protection
standards set forth in division (C) above by means of an exception.
         (b)   In so doing, the Planning Commission must make the following
findings:
            1.   General findings. All of the following general findings:
               a.   Consistency with hillside protection policies.
Notwithstanding the exception granted, the resulting project will nevertheless
be substantially consistent with the hillside protection policies set forth in
division (B) above;
               b.   Consistency with general plan. The use or project proposed
in conjunction with the exception is consistent with all adopted and applicable
general and specific plans of the city;
               c.   Consistency with zoning code. The use and improvements
proposed in conjunction with the exception are consistent with the provisions
of this subchapter;
               d.   Consistency with CEQA standards. The approval of the
exception is in compliance with the requirements of the CEQA, being California
Public Resources Code, §§ 21000 et seq., and the State CEQA Guidelines, being
the California Code of Regulations, Title 14, §§ 1500 et seq.;
               e.   Compatibility. The location, size, design and operating
characteristics of the use proposed in conjunction with the exception will not
create significant noise, traffic or other conditions or situations that may be
objectionable, detrimental or incompatible with other permitted uses in the
vicinity;
               f.   Preservation of general welfare. Approval of the exception
will not result in conditions or circumstances contrary to the public health,
safety and general welfare; and
               g.   No special privileges. Approval of the exception will not
constitute a grant of special privileges to the subject property which, even
after all conditions attached to the approval are complied with, is
inconsistent with the limitations placed upon other properties, subject to the
same hillside protection regulations.
            2.   Specific findings. One or more of the following findings
specific to the exception being requested:
               a.   Reasonable use of property. The strict application of the
standard would deny any reasonable use of the property in question and thereby
deprive the subject property of privileges enjoyed by other properties, subject
to the same hillside protection regulations;
               b.   Result inconsistent with hillside protection goals and
policies. The strict application of the standard would produce a result
inconsistent with or opposite from the goals of this section set forth in
division (A) above, or the hillside protection policies set forth in division
(B) above;
               c.   Competing standards. The strict application of the standard
would impair compliance with another standard, or the exception is necessary to
achieve a balance between competing standards in the interests of overall
conformance with the policies set forth in division (B) above;
               d.   Purpose of standard already achieved. The purpose of the
standard is being achieved by other aspects of a project’s design; or
               e.   Other findings. Other findings specified for a particular
hillside protection standard in division (C) above.
      (2)   Compensating increase in other standards. In approving an exception
to a hillside protection standard, the Planning Commission may require a
compensating increase in the degree of compliance with other standards.
      (3)   Variances not permitted. The variance provisions of §
9-1-114 shall not apply to this section, and no variances to the standards
contained in this section shall be considered.
      (4)   Procedures. Application for exceptions shall be made on forms
provided by the Community Development Director. Planning Commission review
shall require a public hearing in accordance with §
9-1-112.1. Exceptions shall be reviewed in conjunction with review of the
overall project.
   (E)   Projects subject to section. The hillside protection regulations in
this section shall apply to the following types of projects:
      (1)   Development of existing parcels having an average slope gradient of
10% or more wherein proposed grading quantities are greater than 5,000 cubic
yards; and
      (2)   (a)   All tentative tract and tentative parcel maps on parcels with
an average slope gradient of 10% or more.
         (b)   In cases where parcels already possess development entitlements
such as development agreements, the city shall apply these regulations within
the framework of such entitlements.
   (F)   Projects exempt from section. Notwithstanding division (E) above, the
hillside protection regulations of this section shall not apply to the
following types of projects.
      (1)   Modifications to existing structures. This section shall not apply
to modifications to existing structures.
      (2)   Repair of damaged homes. This section shall not apply to repair or
reconstruction of homes damaged or destroyed by fire or other cause.
      (3)   Existing permits. This section shall not apply to projects for
which a grading or building permit was issued prior to the effective date of
this section, which permit was still valid as of such effective date.
      (4)   New home construction. This section shall not apply to new home
construction on existing lots, unless both the cubic yard grading and average
slope gradient thresholds of division (E)(1) above are exceeded.
      (5)   Emergency grading. This section shall not apply to grading to
correct a slope failure or other ground failure if such correction is deemed by
the Community Development Director or the Director’s authorized city
representative to be an emergency, i.e., a situation where life or property is
threatened. Such corrections might include buttressing or replacement of a
slope failure, repair of earthquake damage, removing a slide from a roadway or
similar actions.
      (6)   Other projects. This section shall not apply to any other project
not specified in division (E) above.
      (7)   Bear brand hillside estates area. Notwithstanding division (E)
above, the hillside protection regulations of this section shall not apply to a
portion of the area lying between the Bear Brand Ranch Planned Community and
the City of San Juan Capistrano, shown on Figure 8.3 below, because of the
following findings:
         (a)   Subdivision of the area is substantially complete;
         (b)   Deed restrictions have been imposed on most parcels within the
area severely limiting further parcelization;
         (c)   All utilities have already been provided to the area;
         (d)   All access easements have been set;
         (e)   The major ridgeline within the area is already preserved as
permanent open space;
         (f)   The area is effectively within an integrated planned community
with an established development pattern;
         (g)   The area is already regulated by conditions, covenants and
restrictions administered by a homeowners association, which include strict
design review requirements to control the appearance and visual impacts of
development within the area;
         (h)   Development of parcels within the area require approval of
individual site development permits; and
         (i)   Prior tract and parcel map approvals already provide for input
from the City of San Juan Capistrano regarding development proposals visible
from that city.
FIGURE 8.3. EXEMPT BEAR BRAND HILLSIDE ESTATES AREA
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4383.jpg]
 
   (G)   Site development permit required.
      (1)   Proposed projects subject to this section shall require the
approval of a site development permit by the Planning Commission in accordance
with §
9-1-114. The Planning Commission shall approve such a permit only if it finds
that the project is in substantial conformance with the hillside protection
policies set forth in division (B) above.
      (2)   Grading plans for development of existing single parcels subject to
this section shall be reviewed concurrently with building plans. Grading plans
for subdivisions subject to this section shall be reviewed concurrently with
the tentative maps. Building plans shall also be reviewed concurrently with the
tentative map unless the subdivider warrants that the subdivision is a lot sale
project only.
   (H)   Information to be submitted with project applications. In addition to
the standard materials required to be submitted with project applications, the
following items shall be submitted for review of any project subject to this
article:
      (1)   A topographic map showing existing terrain at a scale no smaller
than one inch equals 100 feet and a contour interval of no greater than two
feet for slopes up to 20%, no greater than five feet for slopes between 20% and
35% and no greater than ten feet for slopes over 35%;
      (2)   A view analysis of the proposed project showing conformance with
the hillside protection standards of division (C) above. Viewpoints shall
include scenic highways from which the site is visible or other viewpoints as
approved by the Community Development Director; and
      (3)   Cross-sections through selected portions of the site at locations
approved by the Community Development Director.
   (I)   Environmental review. Environmental documentation for all projects
subject to this section shall disclose the extent to which each project
conforms to the standards contained in this section.
   (J)   Open space easements. As a condition of a tentative map approval or
other entitlement, the city may require the dedication to the public of open
space easements over undeveloped portions of a site to ensure permanent
preservation of such undeveloped portions in open space.
   (K)   Effect of other regulations. The regulations in this section shall be
in addition to other regulations in this zoning code, the subdivision code and
other applicable land use ordinances and the engineering, stability, drainage
and other provisions of the grading code and the associated grading manual. In
cases of conflict between this section and such other regulations, the Planning
Commission shall apply that which it determines to be more rigorous.
   (I)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AVERAGE SLOPE GRADIENT. The vertical distance between the highest and
lowest points on a parcel, divided by the longest horizontal dimension of the
parcel, with the result expressed as a percentage average for the entire
parcel; e.g., “the parcel has a 20% average slope gradient”. See also SLOPE
GRADIENT.
      DEVELOPMENT. Alteration to existing land by means of:
         (a)   Grading other than that needed for geotechnical or other
testing; or
         (b)   The building of a structure or structures.
      ENDANGERED SPECIES. A species of plant or animal listed as endangered by
the federal government or the state in accordance with their respective
endangered species acts.
      EXCEPTION. See EXCEPTION in Subchapter 2, Article 14.
      EXISTING STRUCTURES. Structures which received a certificate of use and
occupancy, or final inspection approval if such a certificate is not
applicable, prior to the submission of plans to the city for modifications
thereto.
      GRADING QUANTITY. Amount of earthwork in a grading plan; more
specifically, the larger of cut, including any export or fill, including any
import.
      MANUFACTURED SLOPE. A human-made slope created by grading.
      PARAGRAPH or DIVISION. A portion of this section beginning immediately
after a lower case letter in parentheses, e.g., (A), and extending to the next
such lower case letter in parentheses, e.g., (B).
      PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT AREA. The area shown on a site development plan,
grading plan, tentative tract map or tentative parcel map which is within the
limits of grading for the project.
      RARE SPECIES. A species of plant or animal which, though not presently
threatened with extinction, is existing in such small numbers throughout all or
a significant portion of its range that it may become endangered if its
environment worsens (State CEQA Guidelines, California Code of Regulations,
Title 14, § 15380 and California Fish and Game Code, § 1801).
      SENSITIVE BIOLOGICAL HABITAT.
         (a)   The specific areas within the geographical area occupied by a
threatened or endangered species, at the time such geographical area is listed
as critical in accordance with the provisions of § 4 of the federal Endangered
Species Act of 1969, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1533, on which are found those physical
or biological features essential to the conservation of such species and which
may require special management considerations or protection; and
         (b)   Specific areas outside the geographical area occupied by a
threatened or endangered species at the time such geographical area is listed
as critical in accordance with the provisions of § 4 of the federal Endangered
Species Act, upon a determination by the Secretary of the Interior that such
areas are essential for the conservation of the species.
      SLOPE GRADIENT. The vertical distance between two points on a slope
divided by the horizontal distance between the same two points, with the result
expressed as a percentage; e.g., “the slope has a 20% gradient” (usually used
to describe natural, as opposed to manufactured, slopes). See also AVERAGE
SLOPE GRADIENT for proposed development areas, preceding.
      SLOPE RATIO. The steepness of a slope expressed as a ratio of horizontal
run to vertical rise corresponding to the horizontal run; e.g., 2:1 (usually
used to describe manufactured as opposed to natural, slopes).
      THREATENED SPECIES. A species of plant or animal listed as threatened by
the federal government or the state in accordance with their respective
endangered species acts.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-81) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, § 55,
passed 8-3-2021)
§§ 9-1-82—9-1-90 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 9. COMMUNITY DESIGN GUIDELINES **
§ 9-1-91 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   All references to this §
9-1-91 shall include §§
9-1-91.1 through
9-1-91.5.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-91) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-91.1 PURPOSE.
   This article is a statement of city policy regarding physical design in the
city. It provides architectural, landscape, site planning and sign criteria for
the design and review of proposed commercial, office, industrial, attached
residential and other development within the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-91.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-91.2 GOAL AND SUPPORTING OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Goal. The overall goal of this article is to enhance the quality of
the human-made environment in the city.
   (B)   Objectives. In order to advance the goal in division (A) above, the
following objectives are hereby adopted:
      (1)   To create a set of explicit design standards to be used by city
reviewing bodies to help guide decisions for approval or denial of proposed
development projects and thereby protect the general welfare of the community;
      (2)   To create a set of explicit high quality design standards to be
used by prospective developers and their site planners, architects, landscape
architects and engineers in designing proposed development projects;
      (3)   To encourage new development projects which:
         (a)   Utilize a variety of architectural styles and site designs;
         (b)   Incorporate quality design features;
         (c)   Are both inviting and user-friendly to people;
         (d)   Offer pleasing and interesting views to pedestrians, motorists
and neighbors; and
         (e)   Are architecturally distinctive yet in harmony with the
surrounding natural and human-made environments.
      (4)   To provide a consistent approach to site planning, building design,
signs, graphics, color, materials, lighting, landscaping and other design
elements; and
      (5)   To provide for city review of exterior modifications to commercial,
industrial, office and multiple-family residential projects which were in
existence prior to the establishment of these guidelines, while at the same
time providing for ease in processing of such review with a minimum of cost and
time to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-91.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-91.3 ROLE OF GUIDELINES IN PROJECT REVIEW.
   (A)   Guidelines to be considered as qualitative standards.
      (1)   Guidance for decision makers. Although the design guidelines in
this article are to be followed by developers, project designers and city
decision makers in the design and review of development projects, they are not
precise zoning regulations with black-and-white allowances and standards.
Instead, the provisions of this article are to be considered qualitative
standards of good design to assist city decision-makers in their discretionary
judgments to approve or deny projects. This article should therefore motivate
design efforts toward meeting the city’s quality standards, either prior to
project submission or via design modifications during project review.
      (2)   Project character. In reviewing individual projects, the decision-
making authority shall tailor the application of the guidelines in this article
to the scale and character of the project. That is, the decision-making
authority may grant relief from a policy guideline (i.e., identified by the
word “should” per division (B) below) if it determines that, due to unusual
project characteristics or small scale, no useful purpose would be served by
the guideline in terms of advancing the goal and objectives set forth in §
9-1-91.2. For example, the decision-making authority might determine that the
provisions promoting pedestrian links to off-site areas is not appropriate for
a discount warehouse surrounded by arterials and non-pedestrian land uses. In
addition, similar relief for “shall” or mandatory guidelines may be granted by
means of an exception as provided in §
9-1-94.5.
   (B)   Mandatory versus policy regulations.
      (1)   As a set of qualitative rather than either or standards, the
guidelines in this article provide for levels of discretion by city decision-
making authorities in their application of different standards.
      (2)   Terms used to differentiate these levels are as follows.
         (a)   The words “will” and “shall” identify mandatory design or
procedural requirements which the city determines to be essential to achieving
the goal and objectives of these guidelines. Such requirements shall not be
modified or waived, unless an exception (per §
9-1-94.5) is approved by the decision-making authority.
         (b)   The word “should” identifies a policy guideline which must be
followed in the absence of compelling opposing considerations identified by the
city decision-making authority.
         (c)   The words “may”, “encouraged”, “discouraged” and “be considered”
identify optional, though highly recommended, guidelines.
   (C)   Effect of other regulations. The design guidelines in this article are
intended to augment the other provisions of this zoning code, applicable
planned community ordinances and specific plans and other relevant regulations
controlling land use or development. In case of conflict or discrepancy between
this article and any other regulations, the decision-making authority shall
apply that which it determines to be more rigorous.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-91.3) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-91.4 APPLICABILITY OF DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   The design guidelines in this article shall apply as set forth in §§
9-1-92.1 and
9-1-93.1.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-91.4) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-91.5 TEXT REFERENCES.
   All references herein to chapters, sections, divisions, paragraphs and
similar text divisions shall be to this article unless some other document is
specifically identified.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-91.5) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-92 GUIDELINES FOR NONRESIDENTIAL PROJECTS.
   All references to this §
9-1-92 shall include §§
9-1-92.1 through
9-1-92.6.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-92) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-92.1 APPLICABILITY OF NONRESIDENTIAL GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Site planning and landscape architecture. The nonresidential site
planning and landscaping guidelines contained in this article shall apply to
all nonresidential projects and to all projects which are predominantly
nonresidential but which may also contain some residential uses, such as
residential units above retail stores.
   (B)   Architecture.
      (1)   Commercial guidelines. The commercial architectural guidelines of §
9-1-92.4 shall apply to the following projects:
         (a)   Freestanding retail buildings, shopping centers, restaurants and
other commercial development;
         (b)   Civic centers;
         (c)   Institutional buildings, such as churches, libraries, museums,
schools and colleges;
         (d)   Small-scale hotels and hospitals, three stories or less; and
         (e)   Mixed-use projects which are predominantly commercial but which
also include other uses within the same building or cluster of buildings (e.g.,
residential units above retail stores or professional offices within a
commercial building or shopping center).
      (2)   Office-industrial guidelines. The office-industrial architectural
guidelines of §
9-1-92.5 shall apply to the following projects:
         (a)   Office and industrial buildings and parks;
         (b)   Utility substations;
         (c)   Large-scale hotels and hospitals, four stories or above; and
         (d)   Mixed-use projects which are predominantly office or industrial
but which also contain small incidental commercial uses, such as a sandwich
shop.
      (3)   Office or industrial buildings proposed for commercial areas.
Notwithstanding the guidelines contained in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above,
in order to promote consistent design quality within the community’s retail
commercial areas, the city shall have the discretion of applying the commercial
architectural guidelines of §
9-1-92.4 to office, industrial or other buildings proposed for such commercial
areas. Determinations to apply such commercial architectural guidelines shall
be in accordance with the provisions of division (C) below.
   (C)   Alterations to existing nonresidential buildings or projects.
      (1)   Alterations are subject to guidelines. Exterior alterations to
existing nonresidential buildings or projects shall be subject to the design
guidelines set forth in this article if such alterations require a site
development permit per §
9-1-114.
      (2)   Significant exterior alterations.
         (a)   For significant alterations which meet the findings criteria set
forth in divisions (C)(2)(b)1. and (C)(2)(b)2. below, the decision-making
authority shall have the option of also requiring alterations to other portions
of a building or project not proposed for alteration in order to bring the
overall building or project into conformity with the design guidelines set
forth in this article. Such alterations include changes to buildings, other
than building painting or similar maintenance, and to non-building project
improvements, such as parking, driveways, landscaping and the like.
         (b)   For such review, the decision-making authority shall make the
following findings:
            1.   In the case of buildings, the alterations exceed 10% of the
value of the building or involve more than 10% of either the exterior wall or
exterior roof area. In the case of projects, the improvements to be altered
cover more than 10% of the project site; and
            2.   Such alterations are necessary to maintain or enhance the
design integrity of the building or project and to advance the goal and
objectives set forth in §
9-1-91.2.
      (3)   Minor exterior alterations.
         (a)   Definition. A minor exterior alteration consists of changes to
the exterior of a building or a project which are not so extensive as to meet
the standards of division (C)(2) above for extending review to an entire
building or project for compliance with these guidelines. Minor exterior
alterations generally include changes to architectural features; exterior
lighting; mechanical equipment screening; site landscaping, including tree
removal; or repainting the exterior of a structure with different colors. A
minor exterior alteration does not include repainting of a building with the
existing colors or replacing existing landscaping with the same or similar
plants.
         (b)   Changed plan required. A minor exterior alteration, as defined
in this division (C)(3), shall not be made to an existing building or project
until it is administratively reviewed and approved by a changed plan processed
in accordance with §
9-1-113.7. The Director may refer such a proposed changed plan to the Planning
Commission for review and approval if the Director determines that the public
interest would be better served by Planning Commission review of the proposed
changed plan. Review of a proposed minor exterior alteration shall be limited
to the proposed alteration and shall not be a basis for or allow review of the
entire building or project for compliance with the provisions of these
guidelines.
   (D)   Determinations of applicability. In cases where it is uncertain which
of the nonresidential site planning, landscaping or architectural guidelines
apply to a proposed project, the Community Development Director shall decide
based on their assessment of the overall character of the project and its
proposed land use or mix of uses. However, in cases where the Director
concludes that, because of the large scale and/or prominent location of a
project, the determination will materially affect achievement of the goal and
objectives set forth in §
9-1-91.2, the determination of applicability shall be referred to the Planning
Commission.
   (E)   Effect of other regulations. The community design guidelines set forth
in this article are intended to augment the circulation, access, parking, site
planning, landscaping, architectural and other design standards of this zoning
code. In case of conflict between any of the preceding regulations and this
article, the decision-making authority shall apply that which it determines to
be more rigorous.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-92.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-92.2 NONRESIDENTIAL SITE PLANNING.
   (A)   Project access.
      (1)   Project identification.
         (a)   Identification signs should be provided for all projects. Such
signs shall conform to the sign regulations of Subchapter 2, Article 7
pertaining to limitations on size, height and placement set forth elsewhere in
this zoning code. The project name shall be approved by the decision-making
authority in order to ensure appropriateness, to aid in identification for
emergency services and to avoid duplication with other projects in the city.
         (b)   Note: All sketches in this article are intended as examples
only. They are not to be taken as the only acceptable design solution for each
situation.
      (2)   Project entry location. Project entries shall be limited in number
and located as far as possible from intersections in order to minimize
congestion and conflicts. For projects on major or primary arterials or where
otherwise determined necessary by the city, full street-intersection-type
entries should be used instead of “dustpan”-type driveways.
Project entries should be inviting and distinctive
      (3)   Project entry design. Major project entries shall be designed as
special statements reflective of the character of the project. The goal should
be to establish a distinctive and inviting image for the project. (Entry
landscape improvements shall conform to the guidelines of §
9-1-92.3.)
      (4)   Pedestrian access.
         (a)   Commercial, office and related site plans shall be designed to
physically and visually link the site to the street sidewalk as an extension of
the internal pedestrian circulation system in order to effectively separate
pedestrian and vehicular traffic and invite pedestrian access into the project.
         (b)   Also, provision should be made for direct pedestrian links
between the project and adjoining projects and residential areas.
      (5)   Bicycle access. Bicycle usage shall be encouraged by the provision
of bikeway access to nonresidential projects and bike racks at convenient
locations near building entries.
      (6)   Jogging trails. Projects of appropriate scale or location may
incorporate jogging trails within the project boundaries and/or provide access
to trails outside the project.
      (7)   Bus stops.
         (a)   Where bus stops are located on a project’s frontage, provision
should be made for buses to stop out of the flow of traffic.
         (b)   Therefore, bus stop turnouts should be incorporated into the
design of site and street improvement plans. (Standards of the County
Transportation Authority shall be taken into consideration in the design of
such turnouts.)
         (c)   In addition, a waiting bench should be provided and overhead
shelters are encouraged. Any proposed bus stop amenities shall be included as
part of the project’s design details.
Example of bus stop turnout design
   (B)   Parking.
      (1)   Goal. Since entries and parking lots establish a patron’s first
impression of a project, the goal of parking lot design should be to create a
friendly and inviting arrival courtyard rather than just a pavement-covered
area to park cars.
      (2)   Parking standards.
         (a)   Parking ratios (e.g., spaces per square foot of building area
and the like), minimum aisle and space dimensions and similar requirements are
contained in the parking regulations portion of this zoning code.
         (b)   The design standards in this section are intended to supplement
those standards.
      (3)   Queuing setbacks from street entries. To minimize conflicts between
entry traffic and parking, parking spaces and parking aisles shall be set back
from the street entry in accordance with standards set forth in the parking
regulations portion of this zoning code.
      (4)   Parking lot interconnections. The parking and circulation layouts
of adjoining developments should be coordinated and interconnected wherever
possible to allow for reciprocal vehicular and pedestrian access without
reentering the street.
      (5)   Internal circulation. Parking lots shall have an internal
circulation system which interconnects parking aisles without requiring street
reentry. Also, dead-end driveways or aisles should be avoided whenever
possible. In any case, all dead-end aisles serving more than five consecutive
parking spaces shall have a turnaround area at the dead-end.
      (6)   Parking segmentation. Where parking lots must accommodate over 30
cars, they should be broken up into segments or modules of less than 30 spaces
by means of intervening landscaping, access drives or buildings in order to
avoid large unbroken expanses of paved area.
      (7)   Parking stall striping. In order to help maintain adequate
separation between parked cars, stalls should be marked by double or hairpin
stripes. Other parking lot striping requirements shall be in accordance with
the provisions contained in the parking regulations portion of this zoning
code.
      (8)   Parking lot screening. Parking and circulation areas shall be
screened from the street and from adjacent properties of dissimilar zoning by
means of boundary landscape architectural elements in accordance with the
provisions contained elsewhere in this zoning code and the landscape guidelines
of §
9-1-92.3 in order to shield views of cars and paving while promoting views of
buildings on the site.
      (9)   Interior parking lot landscaping. In order to mitigate the visual
impact of large expanses of paved areas, parking lots shall include interior
parking lot landscaping in addition to boundary landscaping in accordance with
the landscape guidelines of §
9-1-92.3.
      (10)   Buffer strips next to buildings. There should be a landscaped
buffer area of at least seven feet between buildings and parking areas or
driveways in order to avoid placing paved vehicular areas next to building
walls. No credit shall be given toward satisfying this guideline to vehicle
overhang areas.
      (11)   Use of continuous curbs as wheel stops. In order to enhance visual
continuity and minimize clutter, a continuous unbroken concrete curb should be
used as the front wheel stop for adjacent parking stalls within a row rather
than individual wheel stops for each parking stall. Also, where stalls are
perpendicular to walkways or landscaped areas, such walkways or landscaped
areas shall be made at least two feet wider than the standard width in order to
accommodate cars’ front overhangs. This additional overhang width should be of
a different color, texture and/or material than the remainder of the walkway to
distinguish it from the pedestrian portion.
Continuous curbs avoid the clutter of individual wheel stops and serve as
useful separations between parking and landscaped areas. In this case, the
landscape buffer separates the parking area from the building
   (C)   Outdoor lighting.
      (1)   Intensity. Parking lot and other outdoor lighting should be the
minimum needed to ensure safety and security so that impacts on surrounding
residential areas are minimized. The lighting intensity within parking lots and
adjacent areas should be at least 1.0 footcandle at all points, but should not
exceed an average of 3.0 footcandles over the entire parking lot. (Lower
illumination levels may be used from one hour after the close of all businesses
served by the parking facility until dawn.) In addition, the intensity of light
spillover beyond a distance of 20 feet from any project boundary should not
exceed 0.2 footcandle.
      (2)   Photometric analysis. In order to assess compliance of proposed
projects with lighting intensity and spillover limitations, the city may
require a photometric site plan analysis to show lighting intensities within
the site and light spillover beyond the site boundaries.
      (3)   Lighting and landscaping. Outdoor lighting shall be coordinated
with parking lot and frontage tree planting plans in order to satisfy both the
lighting intensity parameters of division (C)(1) above and the interior project
landscaping requirements of §
9-1-92.3.
      (4)   Light fixture design. Decorative fixtures with full cutoff shields
to direct light downward should be used for parking lot lighting in order to
minimize offsite glare. Bollard or other low-height lighting should be used
whenever possible for pedestrian areas. Light fixture design should harmonize
with and enhance the character of the project. Building mounted outdoor light
fixtures should be integrated into the overall building design.
Decorative low-height lighting should be used for pedestrian areas
      (5)   Building illumination. Any building illumination or architectural
lighting shall be indirect, with no light source visible from abutting streets.
Architectural lighting should serve to emphasize building entries and
particular building details.
      (6)   Sign illumination. Illumination of signs shall conform to
Subchapter 2, Article 7.
   (D)   Pedestrian spaces and walkways.
      (1)   Pedestrian links to offsite areas and facilities. Commercial,
office and related site plans shall be designed to physically and visually link
the site to the street sidewalk as an extension of the internal pedestrian
circulation system in order to effectively separate pedestrian and vehicular
traffic and invite pedestrian access into the project. Also, provision should
be made for direct pedestrian links between the project and adjoining projects
and residential areas.
      (2)   Internal pedestrian connections. Internally, projects should
include a system of pedestrian walkways which interconnect building entries
with each other and with appropriate parking areas, while minimizing conflicts
between pedestrians and vehicles. Also, whenever determined feasible by the
Planning Commission, site plans shall be designed so that walkways connect
individual buildings within a project directly without forcing pedestrians to
mix with vehicular traffic.
      (3)   Pedestrian-friendly walkways. Walkway layout should anticipate
pedestrians’ desired movements and should provide direct routes for them. For
example, walkways should allow pedestrians to “cut the corner” in order to
change direction without wearing an ad hoc pathway over adjacent grass or
groundcover. Also, meandering sidewalks or walkways should contain only shallow
curves to avoid frustrating pedestrians with unnecessary detours.
      (4)   Walkway treatment. Walkways should be well-marked by means of low-
level signage, pedestrian scale lighting, such as bollard lights, and
distinctive paving and landscape planting treatments. Where feasible,
trellises, arbors, arcades or similar features should be used to cover walkways
and give a feeling of enclosure and security. Also, where textured paving is
used, it should not be so rough or irregular as to make walking difficult,
especially in high heels, or discourage the use of baby strollers or
wheelchairs.
Covered arcades, potted plants and distinctive paving give a feeling of
intimacy and enclosure to walkways
      (5)   Creation of people spaces.
         (a)   Commercial, office and related projects should incorporate
outdoor amenity areas, such as atriums, plazas, courtyards and outdoor cafés.
These features should be combined with architectural elements, such as arched
entries, to create an inviting layering of spaces, in which surrounded outdoor
spaces, such as courtyards, are visible from other outdoor spaces.
      (b)   In addition, these people spaces should:
            1.   Be comfortable and human-scale;
            2.   Include such amenities as fountains, benches, seating walls
and landscape plants; and
            3.   Provide moderate protection from the elements.
Commercial and office projects should include inviting outdoor spaces, such as
promenades, outdoor cafés, courtyards, plazas and similar features
      (6)   Variations in building footprints. Site plans should be designed so
that building footprints are articulated in accordance with the architectural
guidelines of §§
9-1-92.4 and
9-1-92.5. That is, buildings should incorporate variations composed of insets,
entries, corners and jogs integrated with adjacent outdoor areas in order to
create intricate and inviting pedestrian spaces.
      (7)   Sidewalks within parkways. On arterial frontages, sidewalks should
be placed within the landscaped parkway rather than adjacent to the curb so
that there is a landscaped buffer on both sides of the sidewalk. (See also §
9-1-92.3(C) regarding frontage landscaping.) Parkways should be of sufficient
width to accommodate both the sidewalk and the street tree root zones. This
sidewalk placement should be used notwithstanding county standard plans for
sidewalks.
   (E)   Preservation of views; project design. Because of its beautiful
setting and hilly topography, the city enjoys unsurpassed view opportunities.
Therefore, project site planning should carefully consider access to views by
both project patrons and the general public. Projects should be oriented and
site planned so that panoramic and mid-range views are promoted, both from
within a project and from the adjacent streets and neighborhoods. Further,
projects should be conceived and designed to protect, to the greatest extent
feasible, existing vistas and panoramas of open space, major landforms, ocean
and special landmarks.
   (F)   Hillside grading.
      (1)   Hillside protection ordinance. Nonresidential projects subject to
the provisions of Subchapter 2, Article 8 shall conform to the grading and
other standards of that section.
      (2)   Retaining walls. Because of the rugged topography in the city,
retaining walls are often proposed to create pad area for the large space needs
of commercial, office and industrial projects. Therefore, whether a project is
subject to the provisions of Subchapter 2, Article 8 or not, the visual impacts
of retaining walls should be mitigated. Thus, retaining walls and crib walls
should not exceed six feet in height and should include irrigated planting
consisting of vines and/or other landscape screening. Where the decision-making
authority finds that greater retaining is warranted, it may approve a tier of
up to three such walls, up to six feet high each, placed one above the other;
provided a minimum of six feet of horizontal permanently irrigated planted
terrace is placed between each pair of walls.
      (3)   Terraces and downdrains. The visual impacts of drainage terraces
and downdrains should be softened by the use of river rock, colored gunite,
colored concrete or other treatments which produce a more natural appearance
than standard drainage devices. Terrace benches should be of sufficient width
to provide for visual screening of terrace drains by means of berming or
similar design measures. Unless determined necessary by the decision-making
authority, downdrains should not be placed at visually prominent locations such
as at street intersections. However, if such a prominent downdrain location is
determined necessary, the downdrain should be placed in an underground pipe.
   (G)   Loading, storage and trash areas.
      (1)   Loading and storage areas. Loading and storage areas shall be
screened from public view by means of solid walls or fences and/or plantings in
accordance with the provisions of §
9-1-45.4. Loading areas should be separated from public vehicular and
pedestrian areas and should have direct connections to the businesses they
serve.
      (2)   Trash enclosure placement.
         (a)   Trash enclosure placement shall conform to the provisions of §
9-1-45.19.
         (b)   In addition, trash enclosures shall be:
            1.   Located near to the businesses they serve;
            2.   Directly accessible to trash trucks via alleys or driveways so
as to avoid the necessity of substantial hand carrying of trash containers or
hand pushing of dumpsters; and
            3.   Located substantially away from public viewscape, pedestrian
and circulation areas unless determined infeasible by the decision-making
authority.
Loading and trash areas should be screened by a combination of walls and
landscape planting
      (3)   Trash enclosure design.
         (a)   Enclosures shall be constructed on a concrete pad and shall
conform to the provisions of §
9-1-45.19 and disposal company standards. Enclosure walls shall be at least six
feet high and shall be made of strong durable materials consistent with the
colors and finishes of nearby buildings. Doors shall be self-latching, metal or
metal-framed, and of heavy duty construction sufficient to withstand hard
usage. Interior concrete or metal curbs shall be included to prevent damage to
the enclosure walls. Decorative overhead structures such as trellises should be
integrated into the design, especially where the trash enclosure is visible
from above. Where exposed to public view, trash enclosures should also be
screened by vines, shrubs and/or trees. Trash enclosures shall be large enough
to provide space for at least two 90-gallon recycling toters per each dumpster
bin.
         (b)   Note: All sketches in this article are intended as examples
only. They are not to be taken as the only acceptable design solution for each
situation.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-92.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-92.3 NONRESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Overall landscape architectural design. Landscape plans shall utilize
the various elements of landscape architecture (e.g., planting, walkways, water
features, lighting, outdoor furniture and the like) to accomplish the following
objectives:
      (1)   To visually emphasize prominent design elements and vistas, while
screening undesirable views;
      (2)   To provide a harmonious transition between adjacent land uses and
between development and open space;
      (3)   To be varied enough to provide interest and emphasis, but not so
obtrusive as to distract the viewer; and
      (4)   To provide an overall unifying influence, enhancing the visual
continuity of the project.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   Deep root barriers. Trees planted within 15 feet of walls or
pavement shall be installed with deep root barriers to help prevent foundation
or pavement damage.
      (2)   Tree grates. Tree grates should be installed around trunks where
trees are planted within sidewalks or other paved pedestrian areas.
   (C)   Project frontage landscaping.
      (1)   Parkways along streets.
         (a)   Project street frontages are highly visible to both patrons and
motorists. As the first design feature seen by people entering a project,
street frontages establish the visual image for both the project and the
streetscape. Because of these considerations, street frontage parkways shall be
of ample width and generously landscaped. Landscape plans shall treat this
parkway, including any portion within the public street right-of-way, as one
integrated greenbelt. Such frontage landscape design shall also conform to the
more specific requirements of §
9-1-45.3.
         (b)   Parkway frontage landscape design should include sidewalks and/
or bicycle- pedestrianways, and planting consisting of trees, shrubs and either
grass (drought-resistant varieties) or groundcover. Frontage landscape
treatment shall be of low height near project entries so as to preserve sight
lines and ensure traffic safety.
      (2)   Scenic corridors. Landscaping and other standards for scenic
corridors shall be provided in accordance with the applicable scenic corridor
plan. If no plan has been adopted for a given scenic corridor, landscape
architectural design shall be generally consistent with the concepts contained
in the adopted Crown Valley Parkway Scenic Corridor specific plan.
   (D)   Project entry landscaping.
      (1)   Entries as special statements. Project entries shall be designed as
special statements reflective of the character of the project in order to
establish identity for tenants, visitors and patrons. Flowering accent planting
and specimen trees should be used to reinforce the entry statement. Landscape
treatment shall utilize such measures as low height plantings at the corners to
preserve sight lines and ensure traffic safety.
Generous entry landscape treatment adds a softening effect and helps to
establish a project’s identity
      (2)   Textured paving.
         (a)   Textured or enriched paving treatments, such as interlocking
pavers, stamped concrete and the like, shall be used at project entries.
         (b)   Textures should be selected which:
            1.   Give a feeling of transition;
            2.   Discourage high speeds by providing slightly rougher pavement
under the wheels;
            3.   Do not become slippery when wet; and
            4.   Are not so rough or irregular as to make walking difficult
(especially in high heels) or discourage the use of baby strollers or
wheelchairs. (Also, see §
9-1-92.2 regarding walkway treatment.)
      (3)   Entry signs. Project identification signs shall conform to the sign
regulations contained in Subchapter 2, Article 7. Other aspects of entry design
and identification shall be in accordance with the nonresidential site planning
guidelines of §
9-1-92.2.
   (E)   Boundary and interior project landscaping.
      (1)   Goal. For almost all projects, both the first impression and the
departing memory are created by the parking lot and adjacent spaces. Therefore,
these areas should be regarded as landscaped open space, and the goal of site
and landscape plans should be to create inviting garden rooms, with trees,
shrubs, groundcover and areas of enriched paving.
      (2)   Boundary landscaping.
         (a)   All projects shall conform to the basic parking lot landscaping/
screening requirements contained in §
9-1-45.3.
         (b)   In addition, parking and circulation areas shall be screened
from:
            1.   Streets by means of parkway landscaping and berming or, in
cases where the Planning Commission determines that berming is not feasible or
desirable, by means of a combination of landscaping and low screening walls;
and
            2.   a.   From adjacent properties of dissimilar zoning by means of
landscape strips and/or walls or fences; and
               b.   More specific guidelines regarding screening walls and
fences are contained in §
9-1-92.3.
      (3)   Interior project landscaping. In order to ensure sufficient
landscaping around buildings and to soften the visual impact of large paved
areas, at least 5% of the net usable area of the project site should be
landscaped, with at least half of that landscaping located in areas devoted to
parking. Required frontage and boundary landscaping shall not count toward this
interior landscaping guideline, unless such landscaping is in excess of the
minimum required by §
9-1-45.3.
Interior parking lot landscaping breaks up large paved areas and helps to
screen rows of parked cars
   (F)   Pedestrian area landscaping.
      (1)   Use of small scale plant materials. Planting adjacent to walkways
and within plazas and other pedestrian spaces should include smaller species of
shrubs and trees in keeping with the intent to maintain an intimate human scale
in these areas.
      (2)   Landscaping amenities. Pedestrian spaces should be enhanced by
planting accents, such as trees, shrubs and/or vines espaliered against wall
surfaces, flower beds, window boxes and hanging pots with flowers and vines.
   (G)   Landscaping and utilities.
      (1)   Coordination of landscaping and utilities. Project civil engineers
and landscape architects shall consult during the preparation of street
improvement, grading and landscape architectural plans to coordinate the
placement and installation of utilities, irrigation systems and landscape
planting.
      (2)   Placement of utility boxes.
         (a)   Unless determined infeasible by the Community Development
Director, street improvement plans shall be designed so that:
            1.   Street lights are placed off of sidewalks; and
            2.   Irrigation controllers, power transformers, telephone and
cable TV junction boxes and other similar facilities are placed underground.
         (b)   If underground placement is determined infeasible, such
facilities shall not be placed on sidewalks, other walkways or bikeways, unless
the Community Development Director determines further that there is no other
feasible location for the facility. The Director may refer determinations of
feasibility under this division (G)(2)(b) to the Planning Commission in cases
where the Director concludes that the facility’s proposed location might
interfere with the goal and objectives stated in §
9-1-91.2.
      (3)   Screening of utility boxes. Utility boxes, such as power
transformers, irrigation controllers, telephone connection boxes and the like,
not placed underground, shall be effectively screened by means of shrubs or
other landscape treatment.
      (4)   Landscaping and outdoor lighting. Project electrical and civil
engineers and landscape architects shall consult with each other during the
preparation of outdoor lighting, parking lot and tree planting plans in order
to satisfy both the lighting intensity parameters of §
9-1-92.2 and the parking lot landscaping requirements of §
9-1-92.3.
   (H)   Tree preservation. New projects shall be designed to preserve existing
trees to the greatest extent possible. Landscape, grading and site plans should
incorporate these trees into the overall project design, including measures to
protect the existing trees during and after construction. Such measures shall
be clearly indicated in both preliminary and final construction drawings. In
conjunction with such efforts, the applicant may be required to engage a
properly credentialed arborist to submit evaluations and recommendations for
saving, transplanting or removing existing trees. If the decision-making
authority determines that significant existing trees cannot be saved, it may
require their replacement with new specimen-size trees having a cumulative
trunk diameter of up to two times the cumulative trunk diameter of the trees to
be removed. Trunk diameters shall be measured three feet above the base.
   (I)   Plant selection guide.
      (1)   Criteria for selection of plant materials. Plant materials shall be
chosen on the basis of both functional and visual characteristics. On
manufactured slopes, consideration shall be given to reducing landscape
maintenance and water consumption, adaptability to adverse soil conditions
present in many parts of the city, low fire-fuel content in transition areas
between development and open space and enhancement of slope stability and
erosion control. Where soil and other environmental conditions permit, species
native to coastal southern California may be incorporated into the landscape
plan.
      (2)   Tree species. It is not the purpose of this article to dictate
project-specific design details. Therefore, although this division (I)(2)
identifies tree species which are generally encouraged, it is not to be taken
as an exhaustive list of all acceptable species. Examples of species which may
be used in different areas of a project are listed on the following pages. Most
of these species are drought tolerant. In keeping with the nontechnical nature
of these guidelines, common, instead of botanical names, are used (“(D)”
denotes deciduous species, “(E)” evergreens).
Common name Mature height (feet) Mature spread (feet) Flower/season Notes
Common name      Mature height  Mature spread  Flower/season  Notes
                 (feet)         (feet)
ENTRY AND ACCENT TREES
Bottlebrush      15—30        15—20        Red/spring     Showy color
(various) (E)
Chinese Flame    30             25             Yellow/summer  Good accent
(D)
Coral Tree       40             60             Red/winter     Root control
(Kaffirboom) (D)                                              needed
Crape Myrtle
(mildew-         20             10             Red/summer     Colorful small
resistant                                                     tree
varieties) (D)
Flame Tree       40             30             Bright red/    Brilliant color
(semi-decid.)                                  summer
Goldenrain (D)   20             15             Yellow/spring  Durable, colorful
Jacaranda (semi- 50             35             Blue/summer    Deep-rooted
decid.)
Queen Palm (E)   40             30             None           Graceful branches
Star or Norfolk  100            50             None           Pyramidal,
Pine (E)                                                      stately
INTERIOR PARKING LOT TREES
Chinese Elm (E)  50             60             None           Canopy/shade
Also, Bradford Pear, Canary Island Pine, Fern Pine, London Plane, Magnolia and
Liquidambar, listed in Street Frontage Trees.
PERIMETER AND SCREENING TREES
Aleppo Pine (E)  50             40             None           Fast-growing
Australian Tea   20             20             White/spring   Gray-green leaves
Tree (E)
Australian       20             15             Yellow/spring  Deep-rooted
Willow (E)
Leyland Cypress  40             20             None           Very fast-growing
(E)
Myoporum (E)     30             25             None           Dense screen
SLOPE TREES
Acacia (various  10—30        10—40        Various/spring Good on slopes
species) (E/D)
California       50             50             None           Light green
Pepper (E)
Coulter Pine (E) 60             30             None           Hardy
Eucalyptus
(various         15—100       10—50        Some species   Large variety
species) (E)
Also, Aleppo, Pine, Australian Tea Tree, Australian Willow, Leyland Cypress and
Myoporum, listed in Perimeter and Screening Trees.
STREET FRONTAGE TREES*   
Bradford Pear    40             20             White/spring   Good canopy tree
(D)
Canary Island    70             30             None           Tall, formal
Pine (E)
Chinese Pistache 40             30             None           Colorful fall
(D)                                                           foliage
Coast Redwood    70             25             None           Beautiful street
(E)                                                           tree
Deodar Cedar (E) 80             40             None           Formal conifer
Fern Pine (E)    50             20             None           Slow growing
London Plane (D) 60             30             None           Vertical sycamore
Magnolia (E)     60             40             White/summer   Large flowers
Sweetgum                                                      Colorful fall
(Liquidambar)    80             40             None           foliage
(D)
Also Star or Norfolk Pine, listed in entry and accent trees.
* Street tree species shall be selected to match or complement existing trees
on the same street. If new streets are to be constructed within a project,
there shall be an overall street tree plan/program to reinforce streetscape
identity (e.g., single species or mixed, canopy or vertical species, formal
with uniform spacing versus informal species and groupings and the like).
WALKWAY AND PEDESTRIAN AREA TREES
Eucalyptus       30             20             Negligible     Fine-textured
Nicholii (E)                                                  leaves
Gold Medallion   20             15             Yellow/summer  Graceful, weeping
Tree (E)
Photinia         10             10             White/spring   Small; good color
(Fraser) (E)
Tabebuia (E)     25—30        20             Yellow/spring  Very showy
Also, Crape Myrtle and Golden rain, listed in Entry and Accent Trees; and
Chinese Pistache and Fern Pine, listed in Street Frontage Trees.
 
   (J)   Planting sizes and densities.
      (1)   Planting sizes and densities for flat areas. For all landscaped
areas other than manufactured slopes over six feet in height, landscape
planting shall conform to the following minimum size and planting density
standards:
         (a)   Trees.
            1.   Minimum size: six feet high (measured from the top of
container) with at least 20% to be minimum 24-inch box size; and
            2.   Maximum spacing in parkways, entry drives, street medians,
parking lot planter strips and project boundary strips: average 30 feet. Trees
may be planted either in irregular clusters or at equal intervals provided the
preceding average spacing is achieved.
         (b)   Shrubs.
            1.   Minimum size: one gallon minimum with at least 30% to be five-
gallon; and
            2.   Maximum spacing: average ten feet.
      (2)   Planting sizes and densities for manufactured slopes. On
manufactured slopes over six feet in height, landscape planting shall conform
to the following minimum size and planting density standards.
         (a)   Trees.
            1.   Minimum size: five-gallon, with at least 30% to be minimum ten
feet high, measured from the top of container; and
            2.   Maximum spacing: average 25 feet.
         (b)   Shrubs.
            1.   Minimum size: one-gallon minimum with at least 30% to be five-
gallon; and
            2.   Maximum spacing: average ten feet.
         (c)   Vines. As required to augment groundcover and/or provide
screening for retaining walls.
         (d)   Groundcover. Hand-planted plugs with minimum density of one foot
on center, or other density as approved by the Community Development Director,
or hydroseeding utilizing seed mixture approved by the Director. Either of the
preceding methods or a combination of the two shall be sufficient, in the
Director’s judgment, to meet a goal of 100% slope coverage within one year of
planting.
   (K)   Walls and fences.
      (1)   Height and placement. Limitations on height and placement of walls
and fences shall be per the provisions of §
9-1-45.2 or applicable planned community text or specific plan.
      (2)   Frontage walls. Walls located along project street frontages shall
conform to the provisions of §
9-1-45.2 and shall effectively screen parked cars. (See also §
9-1-92.3(E) regarding boundary landscaping.) Such walls should generally be
solid but may include open portions (tubular steel, wrought iron and the like)
if the decision-making authority determines that the desired screening of
parking and circulation areas is still achieved.
      (3)   Perimeter and screening walls. Non-street perimeter walls and walls
screening service, loading or similar areas should be of masonry, stucco or
other solid material. Shrubs and/or vines should be planted on one or both
sides of such walls to add visual softening, except where determined infeasible
or unnecessary by the decision-making authority. Plant spacing should be
appropriate to the growth habits of the selected plant species but should be
designed to provide interest and variety along the wall rather than creating a
complete covering of the entire wall surface. Where the decision-making
authority determines that screening is not required, walls may incorporate
tubular steel, wrought iron or other open design. In any case, there should be
an intervening landscape buffer between perimeter walls and walkways.
      (4)   Materials and colors. Walls should utilize durable materials,
finishes and colors consistent with project buildings. However, wood fences are
discouraged because of maintenance problems and lack of durability. Also, chain
link, wire mesh, barbed wire or similar materials should not be used because of
their unattractive appearance unless the decision-making authority determines
that the fence will not be visible to the public or is otherwise consistent
with the goal and objectives set forth in §
9-1-91.2. In such cases, vinyl-clad chain link is encouraged.
      (5)   Wall/fence articulation. Long straight stretches of wall or fence
should be avoided because of the resulting monotonous appearance and lack of
visual interest. Walls and fences should be varied by the use of such design
features as offsets (i.e., jogs), open panels (e.g., containing wrought iron)
at selected locations, periodic variations in materials, texture or colors, the
inclusion of landscape plantings and similar measures.
      (6)   RV lot screening. Recreation vehicle storage lots in nonresidential
areas shall conform to the residential screening requirements contained in §
9-1-35.12.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-92.3) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-92.4 COMMERCIAL ARCHITECTURE.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   General applicability. The commercial architectural guidelines of
this section shall apply to the following projects:
         (a)   Freestanding retail buildings, shopping centers, restaurants and
other commercial development;
         (b)   Civic centers;
         (c)   Institutional buildings, such as churches, libraries, museums,
schools and colleges;
         (d)   Small-scale hotels and hospitals, three stories or less; and
         (e)   Mixed-use projects which are predominantly commercial but which
also include other uses within the same building or cluster of buildings, e.g.,
residential units above retail stores or professional offices within a
commercial building or shopping center.
      (2)   Office or industrial buildings proposed for commercial areas. In
order to promote consistent design quality within the community’s retail
commercial areas, the city shall have the discretion of applying the commercial
architectural guidelines of this section to office or industrial buildings
proposed for such commercial areas. Determinations to apply such commercial
architectural guidelines shall be in accordance with the provisions of §
9-1-92.1.
   (B)   Architectural style and harmony.
      (1)   Diversity of styles. No single architectural style predominates for
commercial buildings in the city. Indeed, one of the strengths of the city’s
built environment is the variety and interest provided by the diversity of
styles in its different commercial areas. Maintenance of this lively mix of
styles is encouraged in new commercial projects within the framework of this
article.
      (2)   Compatibility with existing development. Although architectural
diversity is encouraged in commercial projects, it is not to be achieved at the
expense of harmony with existing development. Thus, though new projects need
not imitate the design of surrounding buildings, they nevertheless should be
visually compatible with that development. This compatibility can be achieved
by incorporating some of the design features of existing development such as
materials; colors; architectural details, such as door and window design; and
roof design and the like. In addition, the space needs of a commercial project
should be balanced against the countervailing need to avoid projects so massive
as to overwhelm the scale of surrounding residential development.
      (3)   Compatibility with natural setting. The natural setting should also
be respected in the design of new projects. This can be achieved by designing
split-level buildings with step-down hillside sites rather than large single
pads requiring massive cuts and fills. (See Subchapter 2, Article 8 for useful
design measures.) Also, colors, materials and styles which harmonize with the
natural setting should be used. As an example of the preceding criterion, the
construction of large reflective glass buildings on prominent hillsides would
be discouraged.
   (C)   Building mass and form.
Building articulation (i.e., offsets, projections and recesses) creates
interesting facades and inviting pedestrian spaces
      (1)   Single-story and multi-story elements. A combination of one-story
and two-story elements should be created within the overall form of commercial
buildings in order to provide a variety of scale and reduce the perceived
building mass. Any building mass above the second story should be substantially
set back and reduced in size.
      (2)   Perimeter mass. The ends of large building masses should be stepped
down with subelements in order to create a more human scale for the pedestrian.
      (3)   Articulation. The apparent mass of buildings should be reduced by
means of articulation, i.e., the varying of wall planes in depth and/or
direction. This also creates visual interest and human-scale outdoor spaces
such as patios and terraces. Large blank single-planed walls should be avoided.
      (4)   Use of architectural elements. Elements, such as canopies, awnings,
porches, arcades and balconies, may be used to add wall articulation and
provide a varied transition of building mass from ground level to roof.
      (5)   Parking structures.
         (a)   Although parking structures are sometimes necessary in dense
commercial areas they tend to be massive and overwhelming.
         (b)   The following design measures are aimed at softening their
impacts.
            1.   The design and materials of parking structures should be
consistent with and should complement the buildings they serve.
            2.   On elevations exposed to public view, the concrete sides
should be textured and colored or faced with brick or other material consistent
with the structure’s associated buildings. Exposed uncolored concrete sides
should be avoided.
            3.   Substantial buffer landscaping should be included along all
sides of the structure exposed to public view similar to the surface parking
lot boundary landscaping required by §
9-1-92.3.
            4.   Landscaping on the top level should receive interior
landscaping equal to at least one-half of the interior landscaping required of
surface parking lots as specified in §
9-1-92.3.
            5.   Linear planters and/or trellises with cascading shrubs or
vines should be added along the outside edge of each parking level, especially
the upper levels, for visual softening and interest.
            6.   Upper levels of the structure should be stepped back further
than the lower levels.
            7.   One or more parking levels may be placed underground.
            8.   The inclusion of street-level retail or office space is
encouraged.
   (D)   Building elevations.
      (1)   Unified treatment. Commercial building design should incorporate a
simple, unified architectural treatment or style which provides a framework for
storefronts and signage.
      (2)   Rhythm. Multi-tenant buildings should express a harmonizing rhythm
by means of repeated architectural elements, such as doors, windows, signing
and the structural frame of the overall building.
      (3)   Wall tops. The tops of exterior walls should be terminated by a
cornice, gable roof projection or parapet which reinforces the rhythm of the
building storefronts.
      (4)   Building entrances. Entrances should be oriented toward walkways
but should be designed to minimize conflicts between people going past and
people entering or leaving the store. This can be done, for example, by
recessing entrances which open onto walkways less than ten feet wide into the
facade storefront.
      (5)   Ground floor interest. Commercial and office buildings should be
designed so that the ground floor presents an interesting and varied appearance
to pedestrians and motorists. This can be achieved by the liberal use of
windows, arcades, architectural detailing, wall murals, artwork and similar
design features.
Windows, arcades and balconies add interest to commercial buildings
      (6)   Balconies and galleries. Balconies should be recessed, cantilevered
or can be supported on columns to form a veranda below. When covered to form a
gallery, the balcony contributes an attractive indoor-outdoor element.
      (7)   Verandas, pergolas and arcades.
         (a)   These attached ground floor covered walkways are encouraged for
commercial and other pedestrian-intensive uses because:
            1.   They add variety and interest to otherwise monotonous wall
planes;
            2.   They add partially protected exterior space to a building; and
            3.   They provide pedestrian pathways and transitions to indoor
spaces.
         (b)   1.   The veranda roof and the pergola’s open rafters should be
supported on a concrete, stone or plastered masonry colonnade or on heavy
wooden posts.
            2.   In Spanish styles, the walkway’s spanning members consist of
arches and the structure is referred to as an arcade. For such arcades, use of
the barrel arch is appropriate while use of the pointed or parabolic arch is
discouraged.
Yes: Blank walls can be made more appealing by such features as pergolas
(trellis-covered walkways)
No: Unrelieved blank walls are barren and unfriendly
      (8)   Wall relief. Trellises, frameworks, wood or tile details, artwork
and other features should be designed into otherwise blank walls to avoid
sterility and visual monotony.
   (E)   Roofs.
      (1)   Pitched roofs. Pitched roofs are encouraged for commercial
buildings in the city. They may be gable, hip or shed type, but in all cases
should either be full-pitched or should appear so from the street. Any flat
portions, such as for equipment wells, should be relatively small and hidden.
On larger commercial buildings, pitched roofs should generally be multi-planed
to avoid large expanses of monotonous single-planed roofs.
      (2)   Flat roofs. Though not encouraged, flat roofs may be approved for
larger commercial buildings such as discount warehouses, or when the decision-
making authority determines that a project’s overall design is amenable to flat
roofs and is otherwise consistent with the goal and objectives set forth in §
9-1-91.2. When flat roofs are used, there should be a screening parapet topped
with a coping, cornice or, if determined appropriate to the project’s style by
the decision-making authority, a modified mansard. Such mansards should
maintain the same roof pitch as surrounding buildings and should be both high
and deep enough to create the illusion of being a true roof. Small steeply
pitched mansard eyebrows are generally discouraged.
      (3)   Roof materials. Materials should be fire resistant, such as clay or
concrete tile on pitched roofs and composition materials on flat roofs.
Standing-seam metal roofs may also be used if the decision-making authority
determines that such a roof is consistent with the character and style of the
building. Potentially combustible roof coverings such as wood shakes or
shingles shall not be used.
      (4)   Spanish tile.
         (a)   Two-piece clay or concrete barrel tile should generally be used.
However, one-piece “S” tile may be used when the decision-making authority
determines that such tile is compatible with the overall building style, e.g.,
“S” tile is not compatible with traditional Spanish styles but may be so with
more contemporary styles. For both tile types, tile should generally be a
mixture of lighter and darker colors, producing the appearance of natural
variation.
         (b)   Also, tiles should be stacked, i.e., doubled, triplex and
quadrupled, at the eaves and randomly elsewhere over the roof surface to add
texture and richness. With two-piece tiles, mud grouting should be placed
between the stacked tiles.
Random stacking (doubling, tripling, quadrupling) of Spanish tiles provides a
rich textured appearance
      (5)   Screening of roof equipment. All roof-mounted equipment (e.g., air
conditioning, heating, ventilation and associated vents and exhausts) shall be
completely screened from a horizontal line of sight. Also, if the building roof
is visible from surrounding hillside areas, all roof equipment shall be
screened from above as well. Such screening shall be architecturally consistent
with the building and an integral part of the roof design so as not to appear
as an architectural “afterthought”. For flat roofs, an architecturally
consistent screen enclosure behind the parapet wall may be used if it is made
to appear as an integral part of the building. The ground-mounting of
mechanical equipment, with appropriate wall or landscape screening, as an
alternative to roof mounting is encouraged.
For pitched roofs, equipment wells integrated into the roof design should be
used to screen equipment
   (F)   Doors and windows.
      (1)   Doors. Entry doors may be of many materials and types but should be
consistent with the overall building architecture and should generally be of
human scale. They should also be inset into the wall as part of an easily
understandable building or store entry statement. Porches, canopies and porte-
cocheres may be added as part of the overall entry where space and building use
allow.
      (2)   Windows. Windows may be of various types but should usually be
rectangular or roundheaded. They should be recessed into the wall or at least
give the appearance of being recessed in order to add articulation to the
facade.
      (3)   Awnings and canopies. Awnings, canopies and porte-cocheres may be
used to mark entrances and windows and provide protection from sun and rain.
However, care must be taken to ensure that such elements are tasteful accents
and not gaudy distractions (e.g., a green-and-orange striped awning on a
Victorian style building) and that they are consistent with the architectural
character of the building.
   (G)   Materials and colors.
      (1)   Number of materials. The number and variety of materials on
commercial buildings should be limited to avoid confusion and dissonance.
      (2)   Roof materials. Refer to division (E) above.
      (3)   Acceptable wall materials. Stucco, wood, masonry, river rock veneer
or other durable high quality materials may be used. If stucco, a smooth, sand
or light lace finish should be used. If wood, highly protective/preservative
paints, stains or other coatings shall be used to ensure attractive appearance
over time. If the wall is masonry, then brick, slumpstone, split-face block or
other decorative block may be used.
      (4)   Unacceptable wall materials. Untextured concrete block should not
be used on any exterior wall open to public view. Also, glass with a
reflectivity factor of over 30% on the outside surface shall not be used for
commercial buildings.
      (5)   Wall colors. One dominant color should be used for the building
walls. Although subdued colors, such as beige, tan, cream, sand, light gray and
the like, usually work best as the dominant wall color, bolder colors may be
used if the decision-making authority determines they are consistent with the
character of the project and would not have an adverse impact on surrounding
properties or the streetscape. Also, where possible, materials with integral
color, such as brick, should be left natural. Metal may be used as wall trim if
the decision-making authority determines it is consistent with the style and
character of the project.
      (6)   Color accents. Accent colors bolder than those used for walls may
be used on doors, window surrounds, awnings, light fixtures and surfaces, such
as cornices and soffits.
      (7)   Wall graphics. Painted wall graphics may be used for accent and
visual integration provided they do not overwhelm other design features in the
opinion of the decision-making authority.
   (H)   Focal elements.
      (1)   Purpose. The use of focal points in a commercial complex is
desirable to provide both orientation and organization. These focal points
create a visual counterpoint to the massing of nearby buildings. Examples of
important focal elements include fountains, courtyards and towers.
      (2)   Courtyards.
         (a)   Courtyards and patios may be used to add amenity and interest to
individual buildings and to integrate and harmonize adjacent buildings. Also,
courtyards, as human-scale outdoor rooms, can contribute greatly to advancing
the guideline objective of §
9-1-91.2. creating projects which are both inviting and user-friendly to
people. These spaces, when combined with inviting design embellishments, such
as awnings and balconies, encourage movement and act as an interface between
semi-private and public spaces. For commercial and related uses, courtyards can
act as an entry or as a transition point in a larger pedestrian circulation
system. They become locations for people-gathering, meeting points and
entertainment, or simply rest stops for shoppers.
Courtyards become enjoyable people places when enhanced by fountains, outdoor
cafés, planters and other amenities
         (b)   A higher degree of architectural detail should be provided in
courtyards in comparison to other spaces. Also, furnishings (seating, pottery,
lighting), paving and plantings should be emphasized and richly detailed.
Seating choices and paving patterns directly impact the way the courtyard space
is perceived and its overall success as a human space. Therefore, seating
choices (low walls, benches, chairs) should be offered in both shaded and sunny
areas and paving should be enriched (e.g., pavers, brick or stamped concrete,
though not so rough or irregular as to discourage the use of baby strollers,
wheelchairs or high heels).
      (3)   Fountains.
         (a)   Fountains provide visual interest and auditory relief and should
be considered for all projects with semi-enclosed outdoor spaces, such as
courtyards.
         (b)   When used, fountains may vary greatly in scale and design and
may be freestanding or wall-mounted.
         (c)   They may be constructed of carved stone, cast concrete or other
materials and may be enriched by ceramic tile inserts or other detailing.
         (d)   Low-evaporation, water-conserving designs are encouraged.
      (4)   Towers.
         (a)   Towers serve numerous practical and symbolic functions.
            1.   They create a vivid visual and mental image for a project,
providing identity and differentiation from other projects.
            2.   They become the actual or symbolic center and gathering point
for a project.
            3.   They maintain a sense of orientation within a grouping of
buildings.
            4.   They can serve to terminate a vista or circulation system.
            5.   They can provide vertical circulation when used as a stairway
or lookout point.
            6.   They can serve as a gateway or point of arrival for a project.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the preceding list of benefits, towers should
not violate the scale of a project by being too tall or massive for the size of
the other structures or for the size of the site. In any case, towers shall
conform to the provisions of §
9-1-43.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-92.4) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-92.5 OFFICE AND INDUSTRIAL ARCHITECTURE.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   General applicability. The office-industrial architectural
guidelines of this section shall apply to the following projects:
         (a)   Office and industrial buildings and parks;
         (b)   Utility substations;
         (c)   Large-scale hotels and hospitals (four stories or above); and
         (d)   Mixed-used projects which are predominantly office or industrial
but which also contain small incidental commercial uses, such as a sandwich
shop.
      (2)   Office or industrial buildings proposed for commercial areas.
Notwithstanding division (A)(1) above, in order to promote consistent design
quality within the community’s retail commercial areas, the city shall have the
discretion of applying the commercial architectural guidelines of §
9-1-92.4 to office or industrial buildings proposed for such commercial areas.
Determinations to apply such commercial architectural guidelines shall be in
accordance with the provisions of §
9-1-92.1(D).
   (B)   Architectural style and harmony. The guidelines in §
9-1-92.4(B), architectural style and harmony for commercial projects, shall
apply equally to office projects.
   (C)   Building mass, form and elevations.
      (1)   Building mass. Massing should be simple and possess strongly
integrated geometric forms. The massing should relate to the internal function
and nature of the space it is intended to enclose.
      (2)   Solid-void relationships. Office and industrial buildings should
have strong contrast between the solid mass of facade and the lighter elements
of the glazing and entry. The facade should clearly identify the entry and
direct people to it. Also, the creation of strong shadow lines via recesses and
projections is highly encouraged.
      (3)   Articulation. The degree and scale of articulation between office
and administrative functions and storage and industrial spaces should not vary
within a single building. Also, one-sided architecture, where only the dominant
street frontage possesses articulation, should be avoided or should be
mitigated by the use of such structures as pergolas and trellises.
      (4)   Lower floors. The first two or three floors of taller buildings are
experienced by pedestrians and motorists at close range. Therefore, design of
these lower floors shall reflect the fact that they belong to the streetscape
and not the skyline. Design solutions should emphasize color, texture and other
treatments which provide visual interest. Specific elements which may generate
this interest include colonnades, awnings, windows and enriched design details
such as tiling. Unrelieved curtain walls used for upper stories should not
extend down to these lower floors.
The lower floors of multistory buildings should contain design details, such as
windows and canopies, to enrich the streetscape view
      (5)   Concrete walls. The surfaces of tilt-up and other concrete walls
should be embellished by means of texturing, the use of exposed aggregate,
fenestration (wall openings such as doors and windows), variations in wall
color, wall graphics, insets and overhangs to create shadow lines and similar
design features to add interest and relief.
      (6)   Parking structures. Parking structures are sometimes necessary in
denser areas where land is at a premium. However, they tend to be massive and
overwhelming. Therefore, the design measures aimed at softening their impacts
on commercial areas described in §
9-1-92.4 shall also apply to office and industrial parking structures.
   (D)   Entries and other elements.
      (1)   Entries.
         (a)   The main public entrance should be readily visible from the
parking area or pedestrian connection. Emphasis on the entry can be achieved by
concentrating a secondary material at the entry with a major projection or
recess.
         (b)   Architectural elements, such as a porte-cochere, framework or
skylight, may be used to emphasis the entry/lobby areas.
      (2)   Drainage and utility structures. Exterior wall drainage, utilities,
cabinets and other systems shall be integrated into the building design.
      (3)   Exterior building lighting. Exterior building lighting should
consciously reinforce the architectural design by emphasizing entry and design
features in addition to providing illumination for security purposes.
   (E)   Roofs.
      (1)   Roof types. Roofs of smaller buildings may be flat or pitched while
those of larger buildings will generally be flat, with the minimum slope
necessary for adequate drainage. Flat roofs shall be surrounded by a parapet
which is a continuation of the facade material. The screening elements behind
the parapet should be constructed of the same material as the facade.
      (2)   Roof materials. Materials should be fire resistant, such as clay or
concrete tile or composition shingles on pitched roofs, and composition
materials on flat roofs. Standing-seam metal roofs may also be used if the
decision-making authority determines that such a roof is consistent with the
character and style of the building. Potentially combustible roof coverings
such as wood shakes or shingles shall not be used. Spanish tile should conform
to the standards of §
9-1-92.4(E).
      (3)   Screening of roof equipment. All roof equipment shall be completely
screened from both horizontal and vertical view. If the building roof is
visible from surrounding hillside areas, special care shall be taken to screen
roof equipment from above. Such screening shall be an integral part of the roof
design and not appear as an afterthought. For flat roofs, a screen enclosure
behind the parapet wall may be used if it is made to appear as an integral part
of the building. The ground-mounting of mechanical equipment, with appropriate
wall or landscape screening, as an alternative to roof mounting, is encouraged.
   (F)   Materials and colors.
      (1)   Wall materials. Allowable wall materials may be divided into two
categories: dominant materials which will usually comprise over 70% of total
wall surface, and secondary materials which cover the remainder and serve as
accents or to emphasize entry focal points.
         (a)   Dominant materials:
            1.   Stucco;
            2.   Brick;
            3.   Split-faced or other decorative block;
            4.   Glass;
            5.   Wood; and
            6.   Textured concrete.
         (b)   Secondary materials:
            1.   Any dominant materials from division (F)(1)(a) above;
            2.   Metal;
            3.   Tile;
            4.   Plaster;
            5.   Glass block; and
            6.   Stone.
      (2)   Roof materials. Refer to division (E) above.
      (3)   Glass. Glass should not be used over more than 70% of the wall
surface per elevation and should have a reflective factor of 30% or less, on
the outside surface.
      (4)   Concrete. Concrete tilt-up construction should not be used for
office or mixed-use projects. When used for exclusively industrial or warehouse
buildings, the exterior surfaces of tilt-up walls should be textured and
colored per division (C) above.
      (5)   Colors. Colors of dominant materials should generally be subdued or
earthtone shades (e.g., grays, off-white, tans, beige and similar) and
relatively light. Secondary material colors should complement and be a tasteful
accent to the dominant material color. Color palettes should be kept simple,
with one dominant color per building and accent colors on doors, window
surrounds, address numbers, light fixtures and architectural details, such as
cornices and soffits. Bolder and/or more varied colors may be used if the
decision-making authority determines they are consistent with the character of
the project and would not have an adverse impact on surrounding properties or
the streetscape.
      (6)   Wall graphics. Painted wall graphics, other than signs, may be used
for accent and visual integration provided they do not overwhelm other design
features in the opinion of the decision-making authority. Wall signs shall be
regulated by Subchapter 2, Article 7.
   (G)   Focal elements. Focal elements, such as courtyards, fountains and
towers, are encouraged for office and industrial projects under the same
standards and limitations described for commercial projects in §
9-1-92.4(H).
(Prior Code, § 9-1-92.5) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-92.6 CULTURAL DEPICTIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the cultural depiction program is to provide
for the incorporation of representations of the city’s physical and cultural
heritage into the everyday life of the community by encouraging such
representations within larger scale commercial, office, institutional and
mixed-use projects.
   (B)   Description. As used in this article, the term CULTURAL DEPICTION
refers to a representation of physical, archaeological, paleontological or
historic artifacts, features or events which are characteristic of the city.
Examples of such depictions might include artwork, such as sculptures, mosaics
or murals; displays containing artifacts found on or near the development site;
plaques, commemorating historical events or pointing out exceptional vistas or
physical features of the location; or similar representations.
   (C)   Applicability. Cultural depictions are encouraged for the following
development projects if over one acre in size:
      (1)   Commercial projects;
      (2)   Office projects;
      (3)   Institutional projects, such as civic centers, hospitals and
private schools; and
      (4)   Mixed-use projects which are predominantly commercial, office and/
or institutional but which may also contain industrial or other uses.
   (D)   Exemptions. Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (C) above, the
Planning Commission may exempt an otherwise eligible project from the cultural
depiction program if it determines that any of the following apply:
      (1)   Because of the unusual character of the project, its location or
other factors, the project will attract, unusually, traffic in terms of both
employees and patrons;
      (2)   There is no reasonably prominent on-site location in which to place
the depiction and there is no appropriate alternative off-site location; or
      (3)   No useful purpose would be served by imposing the cultural
depiction requirement in terms of advancing the goal and objectives set forth
in §
9-1-91.2.
   (E)   Appropriateness and cost. Proposed depictions shall be reviewed, not
on the basis of cost, but on cultural or physical authenticity, and
appropriateness to the character of the city. However, as a reference for
project developers, the cost of a project’s cultural depictions should
approximate 1% of the project’s building permit valuation.
   (F)   Location. The depiction shall be placed in a prominent location within
the project and should be oriented primarily to pedestrian, as opposed to
motorist, viewing. Generally, the depiction should be at an outdoor location
but may be placed indoors in unusual circumstances if the decision-making
authority determines that the indoor location is superior in terms of
pedestrian traffic and/or preservation of the depiction. Also, if the decision-
making authority determines that there is no appropriate location within the
project, it may approve an off-site location, such as on public property or on
separate private property, upon mutual concurrence of the developer and the
other property owner.
   (G)   Review procedures. Preliminary plans and site locations for cultural
depictions shall be reviewed in conjunction with the site development or use
permit for the overall project pursuant to §
9-1-94.3.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-92.6) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-93 GUIDELINES FOR ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS.
   All references to this §
9-1-93 include §§
9-1-93.1 through
9-1-93.4.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-93) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-93.1 APPLICABILITY OF RESIDENTIAL GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Attached residential projects.
      (1)   General rule. The design guidelines contained in §§
9-1-93.2 through
9-1-93.4 shall apply to all attached residential projects, but shall not apply
to single-family detached homes or to single-family remodels.
      (2)   Minor exterior alterations.
         (a)   Definition. Minor exterior alterations generally include changes
to architectural features, exterior lighting, mechanical equipment screening,
site landscaping, including tree removal or repainting the exterior of a
structure with different colors. A minor exterior alteration does not include
repainting of a building with the existing colors or replacing existing
landscaping with the same or similar plants.
         (b)   Changed plan required. Except for townhomes, duplexes or patio
homes, no minor exterior alteration, as defined in this division (A)(2)(b),
shall be made to an existing multi-family building or project, until it is
administratively reviewed and approved by a changed plan processed in
accordance with §
9-1-113.7. The Director may refer such a proposed changed plan to the Planning
Commission for review and approval if the Director determines that the proposed
minor exterior alteration is significant and that the public interest would be
better served by Planning Commission review of the proposed changed plan.
Review of a proposed minor exterior alteration shall be limited to the proposed
alteration and shall not be a basis for or allow review of the entire building
or project for compliance with the provisions of these guidelines.
   (B)   Determinations of applicability. In cases of uncertainty over the
applicability of any of the guidelines within this §
9-1-93 to a proposed project, the Community Development Director shall decide
based on the Director’s assessment of the overall character of the project and
its proposed land use or mix of uses. However, in cases where the Director
concludes that, because of the large scale and/or prominent location of a
project, the determination will materially affect achievement of the goal and
objectives stated in §
9-1-91.2, the determination of applicability shall be referred to the Planning
Commission.
   (C)   Effect of other regulations. These design guidelines contained in this
article are intended to augment the circulation, access, parking site planning,
landscaping, architectural and other design standards of this zoning code. In
case of conflict between any of the preceding other regulations and this
article, the decision-making authority shall apply that which it determines to
be more rigorous.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-93.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-93.2 RESIDENTIAL SITE PLANNING.
   (A)   Access and circulation.
      (1)   Alternate access routes. More than one access should be provided to
residential projects in order to ensure safe emergency access into and out of a
neighborhood and to provide alternate routes for drivers and pedestrians.
      (2)   Connections to existing streets. Street systems for new
neighborhoods should connect to existing abutting streets and to nearby parks,
community centers and shopping areas. However, these connections shall be
configured so that nonlocal traffic through neighborhoods is discouraged.
      (3)   Circulation system to be user-friendly. Attached residential
developments should have a comprehensible circulation system that can be
readily understood by residents and visitors alike. Safe and convenient
automobile, pedestrian and bicycle circulation should be provided both to and
within all such developments.
      (4)   Project identification. Identification signs should be provided for
all attached residential projects. Such signs shall conform to the limitations
on size, height and placement set forth in Subchapter 2, Article 7. The project
name shall be approved by the decision-making authority in order to ensure
appropriateness, aid in identification for emergency services and avoid
duplication with other projects in the city.
      (5)   Project entry location. Project entries shall be located as far as
possible from intersections in order to minimize congestion and conflicts. Full
curb return street-intersection-type entries should be used for multiple-family
projects instead of dustpan-type driveways.
      (6)   Project entry design. Major entries shall be designed as special
statements reflective of the character of the project in order to establish
identity for residents and visitors. Entry landscape treatment shall be in
accordance with the landscape guidelines of §
9-1-93.3.
      (7)   Gate-guarded entries. Gate-guarded entries shall be regulated in
accordance with city regulations governing gate-guarded neighborhoods as set
forth in §
9-1-35.25.
      (8)   Bus stops. Where transit or school bus stops are located on a
project’s arterial frontage, provision should be made for buses to stop out of
the flow of traffic. Therefore, bus stop turnouts should be incorporated into
the design of site and street improvement plans. Standards of the County
Transportation Authority and the Capistrano Unified School District should be
taken into consideration in the design of such turnouts. In addition, a waiting
bench should be provided and overhead shelters are encouraged. However, bus
stop advertising structures are discouraged. The preceding bus stop amenities
should be included as part of the project’s design details.
   (B)   Streets, driveways and setbacks.
      (1)   Use of curvilinear streets. Streets should be gently curving in
order to conform to the topography and provide visual relief. Long straight
streets should be avoided.
      (2)   Setbacks and streetscape variation. Front yard setbacks should be
varied substantially and/or individual buildings should be turned and oriented
in a variety of ways so as to create visual interest, variety and individuality
along the street. However, minimum required setbacks should not be reduced to
achieve this variation.
Front setbacks and driveway lengths should be varied along residential streets
to provide interest and avoid monotony
      (3)   Driveway length. Intermediate driveway lengths of between five and
20 feet should be avoided because cars will nevertheless be parked in such
driveways, resulting in cars extending over the sidewalk and into the street.
      (4)   Driveway width. For three-car and four-car garages, whenever the
decision-making authority determines that there is sufficient garage setback,
driveway width should narrow from full-width at the garage down to a
substantially smaller width at the curb. This will reduce the amount of front
yard paving and the width of curb cuts.
   (C)   Parking and outdoor lighting.
      (1)   On-street parking. On-street parallel parking may be permitted on
local residential streets if streets are wide enough per the city’s subdivision
code and applicable street design standards.
      (2)   Off-street parking layout.
         (a)   Long lines of garage doors, carports or uncovered parking
unrelieved by planting or other design elements are discouraged.
         (b)   Also, the use of parking drives around the entire perimeter of
attached projects is discouraged because they tend to:
            1.   Isolate project residents from surrounding neighborhoods; and
            2.   Create an unattractive fortress appearance from outside the
project.
         (b)   Architectural guidelines for residential garages and carports
are contained in §
9-1-93.4.
      (3)   Off-street parking bays. If on-street parking is not permitted,
off-street visitor parking bays should be provided in accordance with the
ratios set forth in §
9-1-63. These bays should be buffered from the street and/or adjacent driveways
by substantial landscape planting.
Parking bays should be separated from streets via landscape buffers
      (4)   Off-street parking lots. Small single-aisle parking courts for 20
cars or less are encouraged for attached projects requiring off-street parking
lots. For other design aspects of residential parking lots not addressed above,
the guidelines for nonresidential parking contained in §
9-1-92.2 shall apply.
      (5)   Recreation vehicle storage.
         (a)   In order to avoid the parking conflicts and unsightliness
associated with the ownership of recreation vehicles in medium and high density
areas, off-street recreational vehicle storage facilities should be provided
for developments over five units per gross acre. This recreation vehicle
storage lot should provide spaces of varying sizes at a ratio of one space per
every seven homes. Affordable housing projects are exempt from this
requirement.
         (b)   Recreation storage lots shall be screened via landscape planting
and walls or fences in accordance with §
9-1-93.3.
      (6)   Street lights. On local residential streets, the use of ornamental
street lights, smaller in scale than standard street lights, should be
considered. The decision-making authority may approve such lights if it
determines that they are consistent with safety and security requirements.
      (7)   Other outdoor lighting. Parking lot and other outdoor lighting
shall conform to the guidelines for nonresidential projects contained in §
9-1-92.2.
   (D)   Pedestrian circulation.
      (1)   Pedestrian access. Project designs often wall off residents from
otherwise convenient uses that are within comfortable walking distance by
project fencing or landscape planting. For this reason, desirable routes for
pedestrians should be anticipated and incorporated into the original project
design. Consideration should be given to direct and convenient routes for
pedestrians that may be needed apart from the local street system. Where
feasible, landscaped pathways, stairways and sidewalks should connect to
important locations within a neighborhood, such as parks or community pools.
They should also connect to other desired destinations just outside the
neighborhood such as the supermarket, post office or elementary school.
      (2)   Sidewalk requirements. Sidewalks should normally be constructed on
both sides of residential streets and integrated into the street landscape
design. The decision-making authority may approve the elimination of sidewalks
from one or both sides where it determines that alternate pedestrian pathways
have been provided or that sidewalks would serve no useful purpose.
      (3)   Sidewalk placement. On local streets, sidewalks may be placed
adjacent to the curb. However, on arterials sidewalks should be set back away
from the curb by a landscaped parkway to create a more comfortable buffer
between pedestrians and automobiles. (See also §
9-1-92.3 regarding frontage landscaping.)
      (4)   Pedestrian-friendly walkways. Walkway layout should anticipate
pedestrians’ desired movements and should provide direct routes for them. For
example, walkways should allow pedestrians to cut the corner to change
direction without wearing an ad hoc pathway over adjacent grass or groundcover.
Also, meandering sidewalks or walkways should contain only shallow curves to
avoid frustrating pedestrians with unnecessary detours.
Sidewalks should be separated from arterial highways by means of a landscaped
parkway. Also, meandering sidewalks should have flowing, gentle curves
      (5)   Walkway treatment. Walkways should be easily identified and well-
lighted by means of pedestrian-scale fixtures, such as vandal-resistant bollard
lights. Also, where textured paving is used, it should not be so rough or
irregular as to make walking difficult, especially in high heels, or discourage
the use of baby strollers or wheelchairs.
   (E)   Bikeways and equestrian trails. Bikeways and equestrian/hiking trails
should be provided in conjunction with each residential project in accordance
with the this municipal code, the subdivision code or other applicable plans or
ordinances. Where an off-road bikeway is adjacent to a street, it should be a
dual-purpose bikeway/sidewalk, unless the decision-making authority determines
that bicycle and pedestrian traffic densities warrant the construction of
separate bikeways and sidewalks. Also, on arterial street frontages, bikeways
and equestrian/hiking trails should be placed within the landscaped parkway
rather than adjacent to the curb so that there is a landscaped buffer on both
sides of the bikeway or trail.
   (F)   Parks and open space.
      (1)   Public parks. Land dedication or in-lieu fees for public parks
shall be provided as a condition of residential development approval in
accordance with the provisions of the city’s local park code.
      (2)   Common open space and recreation facilities. Common open space and
recreational facilities serve the social and recreational needs of the local
residents and help make each neighborhood unique. Therefore, in addition to
public parkland contributions, attached residential projects should provide
usable common open space.
      (3)   Design and location of common facilities.
         (a)   The city places a high value on the provision of usable open
space and recreation facilities, both public and private. Such usable open
space should be carefully landscaped and flat enough to accommodate both
passive and active recreation. Active recreation facilities included within
common areas may consist of swimming pools, spas, cabañas, tennis or other game
courts, tot lots, free play areas, game rooms and similar facilities.
         (b)   Common open space and recreation facilities should be:
            1.   Located in special places in order to create neighborhood
focal points;
            2.   Accessible from all residences via the project’s own
pedestrian circulation system;
            3.   Situated to take advantage of solar orientation; and
            4.   Screened from prevailing winds and noise from adjacent streets
and land uses.
      (4)   Views of open areas. Attached residential projects should be
planned to maximize the feeling of common open space areas within the
development. Design methods to achieve this include curving streets and the
alignment of a sharply curving or right-angled street toward open areas and
views.
      (5)   Individual dwelling unit open space. Attached residential projects
should provide usable private open space exclusive to each dwelling unit. This
space may consist of a yard, patio, deck or, in the case of multistory
projects, a balcony. Private open space must be directly accessible from the
individual dwelling and should be at least partially screened from other nearby
units.
   (G)   Grading.
      (1)   Hillside projection ordinance. Residential projects subject to the
provisions of Subchapter 2, Article 8 shall conform to the grading, landscaping
and other standards of that article.
      (2)   Retaining walls. Whether a residential project is subject to the
provisions of Subchapter 2, Article 8 or not, the visual impacts of retaining
walls should be mitigated. Therefore, retaining walls and crib walls should not
exceed six feet in height and should include irrigated planting consisting of
vines and/or other landscape screening. Where the Planning Commission finds
that greater retaining is needed, it may approve a tier of up to three such
walls, up to six feet high each, placed one above the other; provided a minimum
of six feet of horizontal irrigated landscaped terrace is placed between each
pair of walls.
      (3)   Terraces and downdrains. The visual impacts of drainage terraces
and downdrains should be lessened by the use of river rock, colored gunite,
colored concrete or other treatments which produce a softened natural
appearance. Terrace benches should be of sufficient width to provide for visual
screening of terrace drains by means of berming or similar design measures.
Unless determined necessary by the decision-making authority, downdrains should
not be placed at visually prominent locations such as at street intersections.
However, if such a prominent downdrain location is determined necessary, the
downdrain should be placed in an underground pipe.
      (4)   Slope blending. The tops and toes of manufactured slopes should be
contoured and landscaped to blend into adjacent terrain. A smooth gentle
transition should be made where the planes of manufactured and natural slopes
intersect.
Slope blending and undulation
      (5)   Slope undulation. Manufactured slopes over six feet in height
should be designed to reflect the appearance of the surrounding natural
hillsides and to avoid long flat-planed surfaces. This should be achieved by
means of slope undulation, i.e., by curving both the tops and toes of slopes
and varying the slope gradient from the 2:1 maximum steepness on some portions
to flatter ratios such as 5:1 on others.
   (H)   Preservation of views. Because of its beautiful setting and hilly
topography, the city enjoys unsurpassed view opportunities. Therefore, project
site planning should carefully consider access to views by project residents
and visitors. Projects should be oriented and site planned so that panoramic
and midrange views are preserved and promoted, both from within a project and
from adjacent streets and neighborhoods. Further, projects should be conceived
and designed to preserve, to the greatest extent feasible, existing vistas and
panoramas of open space, major landforms, the ocean and human-made landmarks.
   (I)   Trash areas and enclosures.
      (1)   Placement.
         (a)   For attached residential projects utilizing common trash areas,
trash enclosure placement shall conform to the zoning code.
         (b)   In addition, trash enclosures shall be:
            1.   Located near to the residences they serve;
            2.   Directly accessible to trash trucks via alleys or driveways so
as to avoid the necessity of substantial hand carrying of trash containers or
hand-pushing of dumpsters; and
            3.   Located substantially away from public viewscape, pedestrian
and circulation areas, unless determined infeasible by the decision-making
authority.
      (2)   Enclosure design. Enclosures shall be constructed on a concrete pad
and shall conform to §
9-1-45.19 and applicable disposal company standards. Enclosure walls shall be
at least six feet high and shall be made of strong, durable materials
consistent with the colors and finishes of nearby buildings. Doors shall be
self-latching, metal or metal-trained, and of heavy duty construction
sufficient to withstand hard usage. Interior concrete or metal curbs shall be
included to prevent damage to the enclosure walls. Decorative overhead
structures, such as trellises, should be integrated into the design, especially
where the trash enclosure is visible from above. Where exposed to public view,
trash enclosures should also be screened by vines, shrubs and/or trees. Trash
enclosures shall be large enough to provide space for at least two 90-gallon
recycling toters per each dumpster bin.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-93.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-93.3 RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Overall landscape architectural design.
      (1)   Purpose. Landscape architecture is as important as building
architecture in creating attractive and comfortable neighborhoods. Landscape
treatments can be used to create outdoor rooms and special places, ranging from
parks and common recreation areas to beautifully designed residential yards.
Landscaping features are also useful for screening parking, softening walls and
fencing and beautifying the street.
      (2)   Objectives. Landscaped plans shall utilize the various elements of
landscape architecture (e.g., planting, walkways, water features, lighting,
outdoor furniture and the like) to accomplish the following objectives:
         (a)   To visually emphasize prominent design elements and vistas while
screening undesirable views;
         (b)   To provide a harmonious transition between adjacent land uses
and between development and open space;
         (c)   To be varied enough to provide interest and emphasis, but not so
obtrusive as to distract the viewer; and
         (d)   To provide an overall unifying influence, enhancing the visual
continuity of the project.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   Deep root barriers. Trees planted within 15 feet of walls or
pavement shall be installed with deep root barriers to help prevent foundation
or pavement damage.
      (2)   Tree grates. Tree grates should be installed around trunks where
trees are planted within sidewalks or other paved pedestrian areas.
   (C)   Use of nonresidential landscaping guidelines. Project frontage, entry,
boundary/interior and pedestrian area landscaping, and coordination of
landscaping and utilities, shall follow the nonresidential landscaping
guidelines contained in §
9-1-92.3.
   (D)   Tree preservation. Attached residential projects shall be designed to
preserve existing trees to the greatest extent possible. Landscape, grading and
site plans should incorporate these trees into the overall project design,
including measures to protect the existing trees during and after construction.
Such measures shall be clearly indicated in both preliminary and final
construction drawings. In conjunction with such efforts, the applicant may be
required to engage a properly credentialed arborist to submit evaluations and
recommendations for saving, transplanting or removing existing trees. If the
decision-making authority determines that significant existing trees cannot be
saved, it may require their replacement with new specimen-size trees having a
cumulative trunk diameter of up to two times the cumulative trunk diameter of
the trees to be removed. Trunk diameters shall be measured three feet above the
base.
   (E)   Street trees.
      (1)   Purpose. By providing shade and greenery, street trees are the
single most effective way to beautify a street and create a pleasant
environment for both pedestrians and motorists. When mature, street trees
provide rhythm and identity for a street and act as a soft counterpoint to the
hard surfaces of sidewalk and roadway. For these reasons, street trees should
be provided on all streets within and adjacent to attached projects.
      (2)   Planting plans. Size and species selection shall follow the
nonresidential landscaping guidelines of §
9-1-92.3. Also, in accordance with the requirements of §
9-1-92.3, the installation of street trees shall be carefully coordinated with
the placement of under-ground and above-ground utilities so that both are
accommodated.
   (F)   Plant selection and sizes.
      (1)   Criteria for selection of plant materials. Plant materials shall be
chosen on the basis of both functional and visual characteristics. On
manufactured slopes, consideration shall be given to reducing landscape
maintenance and water consumption, adaptability to adverse soil conditions
present in many parts of the city, low fire-fuel content in transition areas
between development and open space and enhancement of slope stability and
erosion control. Where soil and other environmental conditions permit, species
native to coastal southern California may be incorporated into the landscape
plan.
      (2)   Species, sizes and densities. Plant sizes and densities and
suggested tree species shall be in accordance with the nonresidential
landscaping guidelines in §
9-1-92.3.
   (G)   Landscaping of hillside development.
      (1)   Hillside protection ordinance. Attached residential projects
subject to the provisions of Subchapter 2, Article 8 shall conform to that
article’s grading, landscaping and other standards.
      (2)   Hillside landscape design. For hillside development, whether
subject to the provisions of Subchapter 2, Article 8 or not, special attention
should be given to the planting of trees and shrubs at the base of walls on the
downhill side in order to lessen the apparent wall height and soften the
overall visual impact of hillside construction. In addition, canopy-type trees
should be added between buildings to smooth out the harsh edges of rooflines as
viewed from below or across the valley. Careful landscape designs can achieve
these objectives while, at the same time, framing and preserving views from the
hillside residences.
   (H)   Walls and fences.
      (1)   Height and placement. Limitations on height and placement of walls
and fences shall be per the provisions of §
9-1-35.2 or applicable planned community text or specific plan.
      (2)   Preferred substitutes for walls and fences. Walls and fences are
often necessary for security, privacy and property demarcation. However, such
barriers can also obstruct vistas and create claustrophobic neighborhoods and
streetscapes. When used along project perimeters, they can create isolated
residential enclaves, cut off from adjoining neighborhoods. Therefore,
consideration of alternative design features are encouraged. These might
include wide landscape buffers perhaps coupled with open view fencing. Where a
denser screen is essential, living fences such as hedges or tree lines should
be considered.
      (3)   Perimeter walls. Where perimeter walls cannot be avoided, they
should be of masonry, stucco or other solid material. Wood or chain link fences
should not be used. However, where the decision-making authority determines
that an opaque screen is not required, walls may incorporate tubular steel,
wrought iron or other open design. Shrubs and/or vines should be planted on one
or both sides of perimeter walls to add visual softening, except where
determined infeasible or unnecessary by the decision-making authority. Plant
spacing should be appropriate to the growth habits of the selected plant
species but should be designed to provide interest and variety along the wall
rather than creating a complete covering of the entire wall surface. There
should also be an intervening landscape buffer between perimeter walls and
sidewalks. Gates or other openings in the wall or landscaping should be
provided at appropriate points to allow pedestrian access to nearby stores and
community facilities.
      (4)   Front yard fences. High fences and walls in front yards are
discouraged because they tend to create a stockade-like appearance along the
street. If front yard fences are used, they should be of low height (maximum
three and one-half feet per the zoning code) and open design, such as wrought
iron, tubular steel or wood lattice. Chain link is discouraged. In general,
front yard fences should contribute to a sense of entry to the home and should
match its scale and size. In all cases, front yard fence height and placement
shall conform to the provisions of §
9-1-35.2.
      (5)   Side and rear yard fences. For new residential projects, side and
rear yard fencing should be installed by the developer in accordance with a
comprehensive wall/fence plan approved by the city.
      (6)   Parking and recreational vehicle lot screening. Common parking or
recreation vehicle storage lots in attached projects should be screened by
means of walls or fences augmented by landscape planting. Such walls and fences
shall conform to the provisions of §
9-1-35.2 and shall effectively screen parked cars. (See also §
9-1-92.3 regarding boundary and interior parking lot landscaping.) Interior
landscaping may be required for recreational vehicle storage lots if the
decision-making authority determines that the lot will be highly visible from
development above. Screening walls or fences should generally be solid but may
include open portions (tubular steel, wrought iron and the like) if the
decision-making authority determines that the desired screening is still
achieved.
      (7)   Materials and colors. Walls and fences for individual dwellings
which are visible from the street or from a common area should be treated as an
integral part of the residential building’s architecture. Materials, colors,
finishes and detailing should draw from the buildings they surround or adjoin.
In general, walls and fences within residential projects should utilize durable
masonry, stucco or wood materials, with finishes and colors consistent with the
overall project architecture. Chain link, wire mesh, barbed wire or similar
materials should not be used because of their unattractive appearance unless
the decision-making authority determines that the subject fence will not be
visible to the public or is otherwise consistent with the goal and objectives
set forth in §
9-1-91.2. In such cases, vinyl-clad chain link is encouraged.
      (8)   Wall and fence articulation. Long straight stretches of wall or
fence should be avoided because of their monotonous appearance and lack of
visual interest. Walls should be varied by the use of such design features as
offsets (i.e., jogs), open panels (e.g., containing wrought iron) at selected
locations, periodic variations in materials, texture or colors and similar
measures. Landscape planting, as described in division (H)(3) above, may be
used to augment this wall articulation.
Offsets and landscape planting, such as vines and shrubs, serve to break up
long freestanding walls
(Prior Code, § 9-1-93.3) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-93.4 RESIDENTIAL ARCHITECTURE.
   (A)   Architectural style and harmony.
      (1)   Architectural style. Although the city contains many residential
styles, the predominant ones are ranch, modern and Mediterranean. While these
architectural guidelines seek to incorporate the strongest elements of those
styles, such as the blending of indoor and outdoor spaces, they do not insist
on rigid adherence to them or to any other particular style. To do so could
create a community which soon would become visually dated or one with a
repetitious and monotonous appearance. Rather, the objective is to promote both
visual diversity and compatibility in new attached residential development.
This will be achieved through architectural innovation and the use of the
design principles contained in this section.
      (2)   Compatibility with existing development. As in the case of
commercial development, proposed attached residential projects will be judged
on how they respect their natural and human-made settings. That is, attached
projects should be architecturally distinctive yet in harmony with the
surrounding natural and human-made environments as stated in §
9-1-92. Thus, though new projects need not imitate the design of surrounding
buildings, they nevertheless should be visually compatible with that
development. This compatibility can be achieved by incorporating some of the
design features of existing development, such as materials; colors;
architectural details, such as door and window design; roof design; and the
like.
      (3)   Compatibility with natural setting. The natural setting should also
be respected in the design of new projects. This can be achieved by designing
split-level homes which step down hillside sites rather than large single pads
requiring massive cuts and fills. See Subchapter 2, Article 8 for useful design
measures. Also, colors, materials and styles which harmonize with the natural
setting should be used.
   (B)   Building mass and form.
      (1)   Building mass and corner lots. Exterior mass and form can be
arranged to improve the visual impact of attached residential buildings on
corner lots. Thus, buildings on street corners should be either single-story or
should have a significant single-story element on the exterior (street) side of
the building.
      (2)   Adjacent one- and two-story buildings.
         (a)   Variety and interest can be achieved within an attached
residential project by varying building heights. This can be done by utilizing
both one- and two-story buildings. To provide a harmonious visual relationship
between adjacent one- and two-story buildings, however, it is desirable to
introduce an intermediate transition between them.
         (b)   This transition can be accomplished by:
            1.   The introduction of a composite one- and two-story unit
between the two buildings; or
            2.   The use of a single-story element as part of the two-story
building on the side next to the one-story building.
      (3)   Mixed-height elements in attached residential buildings. By
including single-story units or elements in a two-story attached building, the
apparent building size can be reduced. When the single-story portion is an end
unit, the visual impact of the building is reduced both at the nearby
pedestrian distance and from further away. Alternately, reducing the height of
an interior unit helps to visually break the buildings mass into smaller
elements.
Single-story elements within a two-story building help to reduce apparent
building mass
   (C)   Building elevations.
      (1)   Articulation.
         (a)   Articulation, the creation of jogs and insets in building walls,
adds interest, richness and intricacy to all buildings.
         (b)   In addition, these changes in plane and height and the use of
such design features as porches, bay windows, dormers and chimneys serve to
break up blank walls and avoid the “row-of-boxes” appearance of many attached
residential projects.
         (c)   Therefore, highly articulated residential buildings are strongly
encouraged.
      (2)   Side and rear elevations. Because of high land costs and other
factors, permissible building envelopes are often totally filled up in order to
achieve the maximum yield. This practice often results in monotonous flat-
planed side and rear elevations. This problem may be avoided by stepping down
two-story attached residential buildings to one-story units on the ends and/or
providing wall articulation on the sides and rear of buildings comparable to
that on the front. This is especially important on hillside, corner and through
lots where the side and rear elevations are directly visible from a street or
from residences above or below.
      (3)   Light and shadow. The effect of sunlight on a building and the
resulting play of light and shadow over its surfaces determine how a building
is experienced by the viewer. Because of this, significant recesses are
encouraged for attached buildings. These can be created by means of substantial
door and window reveals, eave overhangs and wall offsets. The resulting strong
shadow lines will give the building a feeling of both depth and substance.
      (4)   Creation of shade. In consideration of the city’s warm, dry
climate, homes should be designed to provide ample shade for outdoor spaces,
entries and windows. This can be achieved by the use of trellises, verandas,
awnings, wide eave overhangs and the combination of careful site planning and
building insets, i.e., the two working together so that the building walls
themselves provide afternoon shade for outdoor living areas.
      (5)   Entries. Entries, whether on the side or front, should be
designated as a focal point of the elevation and should be immediately
identifiable to the viewer. Entries should be inviting in appearance and
covered or inset to provide weather protection. Entries should also be given
varying design treatments to establish individuality and identity for each
residential unit.
Insets add focus to the front entry while overhead structures give depth by
varying light and shadow on wall surfaces
      (6)   Wall materials. Wood, stucco, stone or brick are encouraged, while
metal siding is discouraged. For wood, smooth, resawn or rough sawn finishes
may be used. For stucco, smooth, light sand and light lace finishes may be
used. Brick and stone finishes should be left natural.
      (7)   Wall colors. For wood or stucco, bright colors, such as orange or
bright white, or intense primary colors, such as scarlet red, should not be
used. In general, pastels, such as off-white or light gray, or light earthtone
colors, such as tan or beige, are encouraged for wood or stucco. Brick and
stone should be left in its natural color.
   (D)   Roofs.
      (1)   Form. Roofs are highly visible in any residential project,
especially in the city because of its hilly topography and the prevalence of
views from uphill areas. Viewed from the street, roofs are as powerful as front
elevations in determining the visual quality of the streetscape. A harmonious
diversity of roof forms can add variety and interest to a residential street,
while roof uniformity can create monotony and lack of street identity.
Therefore, roof forms should be varied along each street. One method of doing
this is to create different hip and gable-end roof treatments for the same
floor plan in production attached residential projects. Visual interest can be
further achieved by varying the rooftop ridges so that some are perpendicular
and some are parallel to the street.
A careful mixture of roof types can add variety to residential buildings and
reduce apparent building mass. Tile or other noncombustible materials are
required
      (2)   Type. Pitched roofs, either gable, shed or hip are encouraged.
Shallow pitches should be used where it is necessary to de-emphasize the
apparent building mass. Mansard roofs may be used if consistent with the
building style and part of an overall project theme. Flat roofs are discouraged
because they tend to produce a bland, uninteresting streetscape and do not
contribute to an overall sense of quality. However, when flat roofs are used,
they should not cover more than 50% of the building’s footprint.
      (3)   Materials.
         (a)   Clay or concrete tile or similarly appearing fire-resistant tile
is encouraged.
         (b)   Composition shingles may be used only on roofs that the
decision-making authority determines have little or no visibility from off-
site.
         (c)   Composition sheet materials should be limited to flat roofs
only.
         (d)   Wood shakes or other wood materials shall not be used.
      (4)   Colors. A variety of roof colors may be used within an attached
residential project to enhance diversity of roof appearance. Colors should
generally be neutral, dark or earthtone shades (e.g., tans, browns, terracotta,
light gray, charcoal gray) and should complement wall and fascia colors.
However, intense colors which might, in the judgment of the decision-making
authority, overwhelm the facade or the streetscape should not be used. Examples
of such colors include bright white, orange, ceramic blue and the like. Vents
and other roof equipment should be painted the same color as the roof itself.
      (5)   Solar collectors. Though desirable from the point of view of energy
conservation, solar collectors can be very unattractive. Whenever possible,
they should be ground-mounted or placed on side- or rear-facing roofs away from
street view. If, because of sun orientation, it is necessary for a solar
collector to be roof-mounted and visible from the street, it should be visually
integrated with the roof by design features such as a frame around the
collector of the same color and, if possible, the same material as the roof
itself.
      (6)   Antennas. Television, dish, amateur radio and other antennas shall
comply with the provisions of §
9-1-35.6.
   (D)   Doors, windows and trim.
      (1)   Doors and windows. Deeply recessed doors and windows are encouraged
to provide shadow lines and wall relief. All door and window surrounds must be
wide enough to match the scale and architectural style of the building.
      (2)   Trim materials and colors. Both wood and stucco trim is encouraged
for doors and windows. All wood fascia boards, window and door surrounds and
other trim material should be two times or greater. Smooth, resawn or rough
sawn finishes may be used. Unfinished silver aluminum window frames without
trim should not be used on elevations visible from the street. Trim colors
should be chosen to complement the wall and roof colors.
      (3)   Glass. Clear or tinted glass may be used in windows and doors.
Mirrors or other highly-reflective glass should not be used.
      (4)   Awnings. Fabric awnings may be used to provide window shade and
colorful accents if consistent with the architectural character of the building
and if awning colors are carefully chosen to complement wall and roof
appearance. Metal or other materials may be considered if determined consistent
with the building’s architecture and materials by the decision-making
authority.
   (F)   Garages and carports.
      (1)   Purpose. In today’s auto-oriented society, substantial space must
be given over to the storage of personal automobiles. In attached residential
areas, this means garages and carports with access onto local streets. It also
means garage doors or parked cars which tend to dominate the streetscape. The
purpose of this division (F)(1) is to offer design features to lessen this
dominance and mitigate the attendant visual monotony.
      (2)   Low-density attached projects.
         (a)   In lower density attached projects, such as duplexes and
townhouse developments, garages and garage doors are often the most visible
architectural feature on the street. Therefore, it is important to avoid the
appearance of an unbroken line of garage doors with dwelling units attached as
an afterthought.
         (b)   Some or all of the following techniques should be used to do
this:
            1.   Create a variety of floor plans with different garage
orientations and setbacks, including some turn-in garages with garage doors
perpendicular to the street;
            2.   Provide three single doors in some of the three-car garage
plans;
            3.   Recess garage doors deeply into the front wall in order to
create strong shadow lines and visual relief;
            4.   Utilize a variety of garage door colors;
            5.   Add trim moldings onto the door, especially over plywood
joints, to break up the otherwise blank expanse and add visual interest;
            6.   Provide sectional rollup doors to maximize the usable driveway
length for parking; and
            7.   Wood garage doors are encouraged. Doors of metal or other
materials may be used if they give the appearance of wood via texturing, raised
panels and the like.
      (3)   High-density attached projects.
         (a)   Apartment, condominium and other higher-density attached
projects often require concentrated parking facilities such as carports and
detached garages. These can result in long lines of parked cars or blank garage
doors.
         (b)   Therefore, the site planning guidelines of §
9-1-93.2 and the following architectural guidelines should be followed to
mitigate the visual impact of residential parking facilities.
            1.   Although carports may be permitted by this zoning code,
garages are encouraged with direct access into units where possible. This will
provide increased security and allow mitigation of visual impacts via use of
the applicable garage guidelines listed in division (F)(2) above.
            2.   Carport support posts should be substantial in appearance,
such as heavy timber or stucco columns. Four-by-four wood or unadorned steel
posts should not be used. Though flat roofs may be used, pitched roofs are
encouraged when roofs are visible from outside the project. Back walls exposed
to street view should be heavily screened with landscaping. Overall design
should be compatible with the architecture of the residences and other
accessory structures such as recreation buildings and cabanas.
   (G)   Accessory elements.
      (1)   Balconies and patios. In consideration of southern California
lifestyles, residential units in the city should provide strong indoor-outdoor
relationships. Therefore, extensions of the indoor living area such as
balconies, patios and decks should be designed into home plans. It is important
to ensure that building floor plans allow space for the later addition of patio
covers within the permitted setbacks.
      (2)   Patio covers. Patio covers, trellises, pergolas and other exterior
structures should reflect the character, color and materials of the building to
which they are related.
      (3)   Mailboxes. Projects should provide mailboxes for the residences as
part of their design details. Individual mailboxes, mailbox clusters and group
mailbox structures should reflect the architectural detailing of the residences
or the project’s overall streetscape theme. Mailbox locations should minimize
visual impacts while providing easy accessibility.
      (4)   Trash enclosures. Trash enclosures shall conform to the guidelines
of §
9-1-92.2.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-93.4) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-94 DESIGN REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   All references to this §
9-1-94 shall include §§
9-1-94.1 through
9-1-94.5.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-94) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-94.1 APPLICABILITY OF DESIGN GUIDELINES TO PROJECTS.
   (A)   Projects subject to design review.
      (1)   Projects which involve building construction and also require a
site development or use permit shall be subject to design review under the
provisions of this article.
      (2)   The types of projects requiring site development or use permits
shall be in accordance with Subchapter 2, Article 11. Generally, however, they
include all nonresidential development projects and all attached residential
projects.
      (3)   Projects which involve only minor exterior alterations and for
which neither building construction is required nor a site development permit
or use permit is required shall be subject to review and approval in accordance
with the provisions of §§
9-1-92.1(C)(3) or
9-1-93.1(A)(2). However, as to such projects, only the proposed alteration
shall be subject to review and approval and it shall not be a basis for or
allow review of the entire building or project for compliance with the
provisions of these guidelines.
   (B)   Projects not subject to design review. The following projects are not
subject to design review:
      (1)   Land use applications which do not involve building construction;
and
      (2)   Construction or remodeling of single-family homes.
   (C)   Determinations regarding applicability. When it is not immediately
apparent whether a proposed project is subject to the provisions of this
article under the categories listed in divisions (A) and (B) above, the
Community Development Director shall decide. The Director’s decision shall be
based on their determination of the most applicable category of the project and
the goal and objectives set forth in §
9-1-91.2. However, in cases where the Director concludes that, because of
unusual project characteristics, the determination may materially affect
achievement of the aforesaid goal and objectives, the determination of
applicability shall be referred to the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-94.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-94.2 APPLICATION FOR DESIGN REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   Application for design review shall be made in conjunction with
the project’s associated site development or use permit on forms provided by
the Community Development Director.
      (2)   The following is a list of information and materials which shall be
required, unless determined to be not relevant to the particular application by
the Director:
         (a)   Preliminary site, grading and landscape plans;
         (b)   Schematic architectural elevations, roof plans and floor plans;
         (c)   A conceptual signing plan, including approximate sign sizes,
heights, locations, colors and materials;
         (d)   Drawings of design details, such as mailboxes, outdoor lighting
fixtures, walls and fences, trash enclosures and the like;
         (e)   A photometric analysis showing footcandle contours, both within
the site and beyond the site boundaries;
         (f)   A sample board containing samples of proposed colors, materials,
finishes and the like;
         (g)   A drawing and site location for any cultural depiction, per §
9-1-92.6; and
         (h)   Other information or materials deemed necessary by the Director.
   (B)   The Community Development Director may permit certain of the preceding
application materials to be submitted after initial review of the site
development permit. For minor exterior alterations, as defined in §
9-1-92.1(C)(3), an application for a changed plan shall be required. The
application for such a changed plan shall be provided by the Director and shall
include requirements for information, plans and material samples as deemed
necessary by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-94.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-94.3 PROJECT REVIEW.
   (A)   Planning Commission review.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall carry out design review of all
projects subject to the guidelines set out in this article except those
reviewed by the Community Development Director in accordance with Subchapter 2,
Article 11. Design review shall be done as part of the Commission’s review of
the project’s associated site development or use permit.
      (2)   Design review shall not be considered complete until both of the
following have occurred:
         (a)   Final action on the project’s associated site development or use
permit; and
         (b)   Expiration of any required appeal period (pursuant to the zoning
code) or final action on any appeal filed.
   (B)   Approval or denial of projects. Consistent with §
9-1-91.3, this article is to be used to assist city decision-makers, in their
discretionary judgments, to approve or deny projects. Per division (A) above, a
proposed project’s associated site development or use permit application shall
be the vehicle for the design review process. Therefore, the city decision-
making authority must make a finding that the project is consistent with the
overall goal and objectives set forth in §
9-1-91.2 in approving the project’s associated site development or use permit
application. Conversely, a finding that a project is not consistent with the
goal and objectives shall constitute grounds for denial.
   (C)   Cultural depictions. Cultural depictions are encouraged for larger
commercial, office, institutional and mixed-use projects in the city per §
9-1-92.6. Preliminary plans and site locations for such depictions should be
approved in conjunction with the site development permit for the overall
project.
   (D)   Staff review of construction documents. Final construction documents
(working drawings) shall conform to preliminary plans (schematic elevations,
preliminary site and landscape plans and the like) approved by the Planning
Commission as part of design review. The Community Development Director shall
determine such conformity prior to the building permit plan check. If the
Director determines that construction documents are not in conformance with
approved preliminary plans, the Director shall give the project proponent the
option of revising the construction documents to conform, or of applying to the
Planning Commission for approval of a plan amendment.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-94.3) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-94.4 APPEALS.
   Any decision relating to design review made by the Community Development
Director may be appealed to the Planning Commission, and any similar decision
made by the Planning Commission may be appealed to the City Council. Appeals
shall be filed and processed in accordance with Subchapter 2, Article 11.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-94.4) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-94.5 EXCEPTIONS.
   The Planning Commission may grant relief from full compliance with one or
more of the mandatory guidelines set forth in this article (that is, guidelines
identified by the word WILL or SHALL, as defined in §
9-1-91.3) by means of an exception. In approving such an exception, the
Planning Commission shall find that, notwithstanding the exception:
   (A)   The resulting project is consistent with the goal and supporting
objectives of §
9-1-91.2; and
   (B)   The granting of the exception will result in an equivalent or better
project in terms of overall design quality. Also, in approving an exception,
the Commission may require compensating enhancement to other project design
features or amenities.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-94.5) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-95 MULTI-FAMILY AND MIXED-USE RESIDENTIAL OBJECTIVE DEVELOPMENT AND
DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of the objective development and
design standards of this section is to provide the development community,
design professionals, general public and city personnel with objective criteria
for eligible new multi-family and mixed-use residential development in the
city. These criteria include, for example, objective standards related to site
planning, building form, landscaping and architectural design based on the
city’s character, aesthetics and the quality of the built environment.
Consistent with existing state law, objective standards are those that involve
no personal or subjective judgment by a public official and are uniformly
verifiable by reference to an external and uniform benchmark or criterion
available and knowable by both the development applicant and the public
official prior to submittal. The intent is to promote the construction of new
housing and further city goals in yielding development projects that feature
elevated design and architecture and foster an enhanced quality of life through
the built environment.
   (B)   Applicability and review. The provisions of §
9-1-95 apply to all new multi-family and mixed-use residential projects that
qualify for streamlined ministerial review under state law. If a project is
subject to development and design review and is not required by state law to be
reviewed only against objective standards, it is subject to discretionary
design review and findings, as prescribed in Subchapter 2, Article 9 and
Article 11
   (C)   Relationship to other regulations. Eligible housing projects that
qualify for streamlined ministerial review under state law must comply with
these objective development and design standards and with all applicable
development standards in the city’s regulatory documents, including, but not
limited to, the municipal code, and applicable specific plans. Where standards
conflict, the more restrictive shall apply.
   (D)   Objective Development and Design Standards Manual. The city’s
Objective Development and Design Standards Manual (the Manual) is hereby
adopted and incorporated by reference into this section as if fully set forth
herein. If a provision is inconsistent with state law, it does not impact any
other standards.
      (1)   Accessibility. The Manual shall be maintained on file with the City
Community Development Department (Department). Additionally, the Manual shall
be made freely accessible to the public and shall be posted on the official
city website.
      (2)   Amendments. The Manual may be amended in accordance with the
following.
         (a)   The Director may initiate amendments to the Manual. All proposed
amendments shall be reviewed for compliance with state law and any amendment
determined to be in violation of state law shall be rejected.
         (b)   If a change in state law renders an existing portion of the
Manual noncompliant, state law will govern and the Director shall initiate an
amendment to bring the Manual into compliance as expeditiously as possible.
         (c)   No amendment to the Manual will be effective until it is
approved by the City Council in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
9-1-117.4.
         (d)   All amendments shall be properly documented, and a revision
history shall be maintained by the Department. The most current version of the
Manual, along with its revision history, shall be available to the public
through the city’s website and upon request at the Department.
(Ord. 2023-225, § 3, passed 12-5-2023)
§§ 9-1-96—9-1-99 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 10. TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT **
§ 9-1-100 PURPOSE.
   This Subchapter 2, Article 10 is intended to meet the requirements of
California Government Code, § 65089(b)(3), which requires development of a trip
reduction and travel demand element to the congestion management program, and
California Government Code, § 65089.3, which requires adoption and
implementation of a trip reduction and travel demand management ordinance.
Additionally, it is the intent of this article to complement air quality
management district standards as much as possible.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-100) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-101 POLICY.
   (A)   New commercial, industrial, mixed use development may adversely impact
existing transportation and parking facilities, resulting in increased motor
vehicle emissions, deteriorating levels of service and possibly significant
additional capital expenditures to augment and improve the existing
transportation system.
   (B)   In order to more efficiently utilize the existing and planned
transportation system and to reduce vehicle emission, it is the policy of the
city to:
      (1)   Promote and encourage the use of alternate transportation modes,
such as ride sharing, carpools, van pools, public bus and rail transit,
bicycles and walking;
      (2)   Provide facilities, such as bicycle lanes and trails and transit
waiting areas, necessary to encourage alternate methods of transportation;
      (3)   Utilize existing local mechanisms and procedures for project review
and permit processing to achieve reductions in vehicle trips; and
      (4)   Promote coordinated implementation of strategies on a countywide
basis to reduce transportation demand.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-101) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-102 APPLICABILITY.
   This article shall apply to all new nonresidential developments with 250 or
more employees located on a site during a given shift. A new development is a
project, either multi-tenant or single employer, for which any level of
discretionary zoning approval for any portion of the project has not been
granted prior to the effective date of this article. If the development is a
retail shopping center, this article applies to the center as a whole and shall
include all tenants and satellite pads. In cases where additional zoning
approval is necessary for additional developments, even though previous zoning
approval was granted for the entire project prior to the effective date of this
article, additional development of 250 or more employees is subject to the
requirements of this article. Developments located within areas subject to a
development agreement shall comply with the regulations described in this
article.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-102) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2002-121, § 3,
passed 10-15-2002)
§ 9-1-103 PROGRAMS TO BE IMPLEMENTED BY DEVELOPER.
   (A)   All property owners, or their designee, of developments subject to
this article must submit a trip reduction/TOM strategy plan prior to the
issuance of permits for the project. The trip reduction/TOM strategy plans
shall be reviewed and approved by site development permit pursuant to §
9-1-114. This plan shall identify initially proposed programs and strategies
based on initial occupancy levels. The trip reduction/TOM strategy plan shall
be designed to attain the goal of an average vehicle ridership (AVR) of 1.5.
AVR is the total employee population reporting to a site divided by the number
of motor vehicles driven by employees to the site during the peak traffic hours
of 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m., Monday through Friday. Reporting employees includes
telecommuters and those on alternate work weeks. At any time at which the Air
Quality Management District requirement for developer participation is changed
from 250 employees, or the AVR goal is changed from 1.5, the employee threshold
and desired AVR of this article shall also be changed to be consistent with air
quality management district requirements without the requirement of a public
hearing.
   (B)   After review of the trip reduction/TOM strategy plan developed by the
property owner, the city may require, but not be limited to, one or all of the
following programs. The city shall take into consideration the nature of the
project, such as multi-tenant developments, when reviewing the TOM strategy
plan. The city will determine the desired AVR and necessary programs as part of
the permit approval process.
      (1)   Preferential parking for carpool vehicles.
         (a)   A percentage of the employee parking spaces shall be reserved
and designated for carpool vehicles by marking such spaces “Carpool Only”. A
suggested percentage is 15% of employee parking to be designated for carpool
parking.
         (b)   Carpool spaces shall be used only by carpool vehicles in which
at least two of the persons will be employees or tenants of the proposed
project.
         (c)   Such carpool spaces shall be located near the building’s
employee entrances or at other preferential locations within the employee
parking areas as approved by the Community Development Director.
         (d)   The following chart shall be used as a guide to determine the
total number of employee parking spaces:
 
TABLE 10.1. EMPLOYEE PARKING SPACES.
Type of Use             Percent of Total Parking Devoted to Employee Parking
           Regional     30
Commercial Community    30
           Neighborhood 30
Office/professional     85
Industrial              90
 
      (2)   Bicycle parking and shower facilities. Bicycle parking and locker
and shower facilities shall be provided in a secure location for use by
employees or tenants who commute to the site by bicycle. A suggested number of
facilities to be provided shall be at the rate of at least one locker for men
and women for each 20 employees and one shower for men and women for each 50
employees for developments over 50 employees.
      (3)   Information on transportation alternatives.
         (a)   A commuter information area shall be provided that offers
employees appropriate information on available transportation alternatives to
the single-occupancy vehicle. This area shall be centrally located and
accessible to all employees or tenants.
         (b)   Information in the area shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:
            1.   Current maps, routes and schedules for public transit;
            2.   Ride sharing match lists;
            3.   Available employee incentives; and
            4.   Ride sharing promotional material supplied by commuter-
oriented organizations.
      (4)   Vanpool vehicle accessibility.
         (a)   The design of all parking facilities shall incorporate
provisions for access and parking of vanpool vehicles.
         (B)   Where applicable, vanpool vehicle accessibility shall include a
minimum of eight feet two inches vertical clearance for those parking spaces
and ramps to be used by such vehicles.
         (c)   Vanpool parking spaces shall be located near the building’s
employee entrances or other preferential locations, as approved by the
Community Development Director.
         (d)   A suggested number of accessible van pool parking spaces shall
be calculated at three spaces per 100 total employee parking spaces. The number
of total employee parking spaces shall be calculated using Table 10.1 above.
      (5)   Monetary incentives.
         (a)   The employer shall purchase or subsidize the purchase of County
Transit District bus passes.
         (b)   The employer shall subsidize the cost of parking for employees
who carpool.
         (c)   The employer shall provide incentives for the employee to
carpool or van pool, use public transportation or use alternative means of
transportation to commute to work. Incentives shall include, but not be limited
to, monetary incentives, additional vacation time and the like.
      (6)   Flex time and alternate work weeks. The employer shall implement
plans designed to have the employee work an alternative work schedule. This
schedule shall include, but not be limited to, flex time, staggered work hours
or a compressed work week designed to schedule the employees to commute during
non-peak hours. Peak hours are 6 a.m. to 10 a.m., Monday through Friday.
      (7)   Telecommuting. The employer shall establish and help subsidize
telecommuting for its employees.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-103) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2002-121, § 3,
passed 10-15-2002)
§ 9-1-104 IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING.
   (A)   For the purposes of determining whether applicable developments are
complying with the provisions of this article, the city shall monitor such
compliance in a manner it deems appropriate and reasonable.
   (B)   Monitoring mechanisms include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   (a)   Review of developer’s proposed trip reduction/TOM strategy
plan;
         (b)   Review of the plan is required:
            1.   Within three months from the date a certificate of use and
occupancy permit is issued;
            2.   When employment in the development increases by 30%; and
            3.   Annually.
         (c)   For each review of the TDM strategy plan, the developer shall
survey its employees to determine the method of transportation each employee
uses to commute to work, use the results of this survey to calculate the
average vehicle ridership for that site and submit the survey and AVR
calculations to the city.
      (2)   The city shall compare the actual AVR to the projected AVR
determined for that particular project. If the site does not meet the projected
AVR, the city may impose any additional programs deemed necessary for the
developer to reach the projected AVR.
      (3)   The city shall verify compliance with required trip reduction
programs through review and approval of site development permits, field
inspections and building permit inspections.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-104) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-105 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   For purposes of ensuring that applicable developments comply with the
provisions of this Subchapter 2, Article 10, the city shall, following written
notice to subject property owners, initiate enforcement actions against such
property owners or designees, which may include, but shall not be limited to,
the following:
      (1)   Withholding approval of a discretionary permit, such as a site
development permit, or withholding issuance of building permits or certificates
of use and occupancy;
      (2)   Issuance of a stop work order; and
      (3)   Initiation of proceedings to revoke the site development permit or
other discretionary action.
   (B)   The city may require the developer or property owner to establish an
association with city-approved CC&R regulations designed to enforce the
provisions of this article.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-105) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-106 FEES.
   Filing fees shall be paid in accordance with §
9-1-119.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-106) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2002-121, § 3,
passed 10-15-2002)
§ 9-1-107 APPEALS.
   Appeals to decisions on site development permits shall be reviewed in
accordance with §
9-1-112.2.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-107) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2002-121, § 3,
passed 10-15-2002)
§ 9-1-108 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 9-1-109 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 11. PERMITS AND AMENDMENTS **
§ 9-1-110 DISCRETIONARY ACTIONS.
   (A)   Definition of discretionary action. A discretionary action is an
action which the city has the right to either approve, approve subject to
conditions or disapprove. This article sets forth the procedures for processing
discretionary and other applications, and the criteria and conditions necessary
so that an appropriate decision may be made by the city on each such
application. For the purposes of this article, certain “ministerial” actions,
which require little or no discretionary judgment (such as the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy), are included within the term “discretionary action”.
   (B)   Persons who may file applications. An application for a discretionary
permit or other discretionary action, such as a zone change or general plan
amendment, may be submitted only by a property owner of the subject property,
by an agent with notarized written authorization from the property owner or by
a public agency.
   (C)   Application filing.
      (1)   Applications for discretionary permits or other discretionary
actions shall be filed with the Community Development Department, on forms
prescribed by the Director, together with:
         (a)   All maps, plans, documents and other materials required by the
Director; and
         (b)   All required fees per §
9-1-119.
      (2)   The Director shall provide the necessary forms plus written filing
instructions specifying all materials and fees required to any requesting
person at no charge.
   (D)   Determinations regarding applicability. When it is not immediately
apparent which type of discretionary action applies to a proposed project, the
Director shall decide. The Director’s decision shall be based on the Director’s
determination of the characteristics of the project and the purpose of each
discretionary action as set forth in this article. In cases where the Director
concludes that the determination may materially affect achievement of the
objectives of this zoning code, as stated in §
9-1-10, or if the Director determines on a case-by-case basis that the public
interest would be better served by such referral, the Director shall refer the
determination of applicability to the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Combined applications.
      (1)   Applications for a number of requests for one project may be
combined and processed concurrently, as long as all applicable processing
requirements are satisfied. The purpose of allowing concurrent review is to
consolidate final action on the project with the highest review authority
responsible for making a decision on the applications for a project.
      (2)   The following shall apply to concurrently processed applications.
         (a)   Public hearing and nonpublic hearing applications. When an
application requiring a public hearing is combined with an application that
does not require a public hearing, the combined applications shall require a
public hearing.
         (b)   City Council and/or Planning Commission as highest review
authority. When City Council and/or Planning Commission review is required for
at least one of the applications for a project, the final decision on all
applications shall be made by the highest review authority.
         (c)   Recommendations. When the City Council is the highest review
authority for a project, all review by other bodies with approval authority
over the applications shall be in the form of a recommendation to the City
Council.
   (F)   Legal actions. Any action or proceeding to challenge, attack, review,
set aside, void or annul any discretionary action described in this article
shall be governed by the applicable provisions of the state planning and zoning
law.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-110) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
56, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-111 DISCRETIONARY REVIEW AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Decision-making authority. Table 11.1 below specifies the decision-
making authority for each of the various discretionary actions described in
this article. The letters in the table specify the decision-making authority
assigned to the official or body at the top of the column for the type of
application at the far left:
      (1)   A D means decision-making authority;
      (2)   A PH means that a public hearing is required before action is
taken;
      (3)   An R(PH) means that the Planning Commission is responsible for
holding a public hearing and forwarding a recommendation to the City Council;
      (4)   An A means that the application is reviewed administratively by the
Director, usually without a public hearing; and
      (5)   An M means that the permit review is “ministerial”. That is, the
action is taken using fixed standards, with little or no personal judgment or
“discretion” regarding approval or denial. (For the purposes of this article,
certain “ministerial” actions, such as the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy, are included within the term “discretionary action”.)
   (B)   Referral by Director. Any application for which the Director has
decision-making authority may be referred by the Director to the Planning
Commission for review if the Director determines, on a case-by-case basis, that
the public interest would be better served by such referral. In such cases, the
Director shall also determine if a public hearing is required. In addition, per
§
9-1-112.2, the Planning Commission may elect to call up and review any decision
of the Director regarding an action by the Director taken on a discretionary
application.
   (C)   Administrative actions. The discretionary permits to be acted upon
administratively by the Director per Table 11.1 below are those which are
relatively minor in nature and with relatively little potential for adverse
impacts on the surrounding community or the environment. A public hearing or
public notification is not required for administrative actions, although the
Director may notify residents or property owners near the subject property if
the Director determines on a case-by-case basis that the public interest would
be served by such notification.
   (D)   Public hearings. Public hearings shall be noticed and held in
accordance with §
9-1-112.1 for those applications shown in Table 11.1 as requiring a hearing.
TABLE 11.1. DISCRETIONARY REVIEW AUTHORITY.
D = Decision-making body
R = Recommending body
PH = Public hearing
required
A = Administrative       Decision-Making Authority
decision (without public
hearing)
M = Ministerial decision
(little or no
discretionary judgment)
Type of Application      Community Development Planning Commission City Council
                         Director
TABLE 11.1. DISCRETIONARY REVIEW AUTHORITY.
D = Decision-making body
R = Recommending body
PH = Public hearing
required
A = Administrative       Decision-Making Authority
decision (without public
hearing)
M = Ministerial decision
(little or no
discretionary judgment)
Type of Application      Community Development Planning Commission City Council
                         Director
Certificate of occupancy M
Charged plan permit      A
Coastal development                            D-PH
permit
Environmental review     Per state and city environmental review procedures
General plan amendment                         R-PH                D-PH
Grading permits          Per the city’s grading code
Home occupation permit   M
Minor adjustment permit  A
Review of uses not       A
listed in code
Site development permit  A*                    D*
Specific plan                                  R-PH                D-PH
Subdivisions             Per the city’s subdivision code
Temporary use permit     A
Use permit               A*                    D*
Variance                                       D-PH
Zone change                                    R-PH                D-PH
Zoning code amendment                          R-PH                D-PH
* Per §§
9-1-111(B) and (C) and
9-1-114.1 or
9-1-114.2 (as applicable), the Director shall determine, on a case-by-case
basis, whether to review the project administratively or refer it to the
Planning Commission; and, if reviewed by the Planning Commission, whether a
public hearing is required.
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-111) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2018-194, § 2,
passed 6-5-2018; Ord. 2021-210, § 57, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-112 HEARINGS AND APPEALS.
   All references to this §
9-1-112 shall include §§
9-1-112.1 through
9-1-112.2. The provisions of this section shall apply to the conduct of public
hearings, appeals and call-up review of all discretionary actions regulated by
this article, except where additional or modified provisions are set forth for
coastal development permits in §
9-1-116.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-112) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
58, passed 8-3-2021)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 98-102, § 2, adopted 6-6-1998, added a new § 9-1-112, pertaining to
senior managed care facilities.
    To avoid duplication of sections, the section added by Ord. 98-102, § 2 has
been redesignated as § 9-1-54.6 at the discretion of the editor.
§ 9-1-112.1 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Applicable state law. Public hearings required for discretionary
actions shall be carried out in accordance with the procedures set forth in
this section. It is intended that the provisions of this section shall be fully
consistent and in full compliance with California Government Code, §§ 65090 et
seq. and that such provisions shall be so construed.
   (B)   Failure to receive notice. Pursuant to California Government Code, §
65093, the failure of any person to receive notice shall not constitute grounds
for any court to invalidate the action of the decision-making authority.
   (C)   Conduct of hearings. Public hearings shall be noticed in accordance
with division (D) below and then held by the decision-making authority to take
public testimony prior to action on the relevant application. After close of
the public hearing, the decision-making authority may take one of the actions
described in §
9-1-113.3, or may continue the application to a specified date or table the
application per §
9-1-113.3.
   (D)   Noticing requirements. Notice of public hearings shall be given
pursuant to applicable provisions of state law, including, but not limited to,
California Government Code, §§ 65090 and 65091, and this title, including all
the following requirements which must be completed at least ten days prior to
public hearing.
      (1)   Noticing content. Notice of a public hearing shall include, but not
be limited to:
         (a)   The date, time and place of the hearing;
         (b)   The project name and case number (if applicable);
         (c)   The identity of the hearing body;
         (d)   A general explanation of the matter to be considered and a
general description in text or by diagram of the location of the real property
that is the subject of the hearing; and
         (e)   If a proposed negative declaration or an environmental impact
report has been prepared for the project pursuant to CEQA, the hearing notice
shall include a statement that the hearing body will also consider approval/
certification of such document(s).
      (2)   Method of notice distribution. Notice of a public hearing shall be
mailed or delivered as follows:
         (a)   The owner of the subject real property;
         (b)   The owner’s authorized agent, if any;
         (c)   The project applicant;
         (d)   Each local agency expected to provide water, sewage, street,
roads, schools or other essential facilities or services to the project, whose
ability to provide those facilities and services may be significantly affected;
         (e)   All owners of real property as shown on the last equalized
assessment roll, or records of the County Assessor which contain more recent
information, within 300 feet of the subject real property. If the number of
owners to whom notice would be mailed is greater than 1,000, the city may
instead place a display advertisement of at least one eighth page in a
newspaper of general circulation at least ten days prior to the hearing; and
         (f)   Whenever a hearing is held regarding a discretionary permit or a
legislative action for a drive-thru facility, the city shall incorporate, where
necessary, notice procedures to the blind, aged and disabled communities in
order to facilitate their participation in the hearing process per California
Government Code, § 65091.
      (3)   Public notice. Publish a legal notice in a newspaper of general
circulation or post a notice in at least three public places within the
boundaries of the city, including one public place in the area directly
affected by the proceeding.
   (E)   Other notice. The city shall also provide any other notice required by
law and may give notice of the hearing in any other manner it deems necessary
or desirable in addition to the notice required by this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-112.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
59, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-112.2 APPEALS AND CALL-UP REVIEW.
   (A)   Appealable decisions. Any discretionary action by the Director may be
appealed to the Planning Commission and any discretionary action by the
Planning Commission may be appealed to the City Council in compliance with the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   Appeal period. Appeals must be submitted and call-up review must be
initiated during the “appeal period”, which shall be defined as prior to 5:00
p.m. on the fifteenth consecutive calendar day after the date of the action
being appealed; see §
9-1-15(B) for the definition and counting of days. Per §
9-1-15, the actual date of the decision shall not be counted in the 15 calendar
days; rather, the day following shall be counted as day number one. Any
subsequent appeal or call-up review to a higher authority must also be made
within 15 days of the decision. However, if the fifteenth day is not a business
day for the city, the appeal period shall extend to 5:00 p.m. on the next city
business day. No appeal or call-up review shall be accepted after the appeal
period has expired. This appeal period shall not apply to coastal development
permits or subdivision maps, which have appeal periods specified in §
9-1-116 and the city’s subdivision code, respectively.
   (C)   Designation of Board of Appeals. The Planning Commission shall
constitute the Board of Appeals for decisions by the Community Development
Director and the City Council shall constitute the Board of Appeals for
decisions by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Issues to be considered. The Board of Appeals may refuse to consider
any issues which were not raised by the appellant or another person either by
verbal testimony or written correspondence made at or before the time the
decision-making authority took action. When reviewing a decision-making
authority’s decision via its own call-up review, the Board of Appeals may raise
and consider any issue it deems appropriate to the project application.
   (E)   Call-up review procedures. The Board of Appeals (either the Planning
Commission or the City Council), on its own motion adopted by a majority vote
of its total membership, may elect to call up and review any action taken on a
discretionary application. The Board of Appeals’ call-up review may be
exercised at any time within the appeal period identified in division (B) above
and shall be processed in accordance with division (F) below. If the Board of
Appeals exercises its right of call-up review, the applicant shall be
responsible to pay for the costs associated with the appeal pursuant to the fee
requirements of §
9-1-119.
   (F)   Stay pending appeal or call-up review. Timely filing of a written
appeal or a request for a call-up review shall automatically stay all actions,
and put in abeyance all approvals or permits which may have been granted; and
neither the applicant nor any enforcing agency may rely upon the decision,
approval or denial or other action that is the subject of the appeal or call up
review until the appeal or call-up review process has terminated or been
completed.
   (G)   Appeal procedures.
      (1)   Persons who may appeal. Any interested person may appeal a decision
of the Director or the Planning Commission regarding the action taken on a
discretionary application upon submission of the required documents and
information and the payment of the required fee.
      (2)   Filing of appeals. Appeals shall be filed with the Community
Development Department within the appeal period defined in division (B) above.
      (3)   Required documents. Each appeal, except for call-up reviews
initiated by a Board of Appeals on its own motion, shall be in writing and
shall include all grounds for the appeal and sufficient information so as to
make it clear to the Board of Appeals the substance of each of the grounds for
appeal. The Director may require that the written appeal be accompanied by such
other documents and information that the Director determines to be necessary to
adequately explain and provide proper notification for the appeal. No appeal
shall be accepted if it fails to contain the grounds for the appeal and the
description of the grounds.
      (4)   Forwarding of records. When an appeal has been received, the
Director shall forward to the Board of Appeals all documents and information on
file pertinent to the appeal together with the minutes or official action of
the decision-making authority and a report on the basis of the decision.
      (5)   Public hearing requirements. If the original approving action did
not require a public hearing, the appeal review shall not require a public
hearing. If the original approving action required a public hearing, the appeal
review shall also require a public hearing. Notice and scheduling requirements
for an appeal hearing shall be the same as those for an original hearing as
described in §
9-1-112.1.
      (6)   Action on appeal. Not later than 60 calendar days, or as soon as
possible thereafter, after an appeal has been received and accepted by the
Director, the Board of Appeals shall consider the appeal and take one of the
following actions:
         (a)   Take action to sustain, reverse or modify the original decision.
If an original decision to approve a project is modified, the Board of Appeals
may modify permitted land uses, place additional or different conditions of
approval on the project, direct that revisions be made to project plans or
require other project modifications;
         (b)   Continue the appeal for further consideration; and
         (c)   Refer the application back to the original decision-making
authority with directions.
      (7)   Majority vote. Action by the Board of Appeals to reverse or modify
an appealed decision shall require a majority vote of Appeal Board members
present. If there is a tie vote, the original decision shall stand.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-112.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
60, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-113 GENERAL PROCEDURES.
   All references to this §
9-1-113 shall include §§
9-1-113.1 through
9-1-113.9. The provisions of this section shall apply to the processing of all
discretionary and other applicable permits, except where additional or modified
provisions are set forth for coastal development permits in §
9-1-116.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-113) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-113.1 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Definition of discretionary permit. A discretionary permit is a
discretionary action which applies to a specific property and which authorizes
a specified land use or uses and/or a specified development on the property.
   (B)   Applicable state law. It is intended that the provisions of this
Subchapter 2, Article 11 shall be fully consistent and in full compliance with
the California Government Code, §§ 65920 et seq. (referred to as “the Permit
Streamlining Act”) and other applicable sections of the government code, and
that such provisions shall be so construed.
   (C)   Applicability of permits to property. All rights granted by the
approval of a discretionary permit remain with the affected property unless the
permit has expired pursuant to the provisions of §
9-1-113.5. All conditions and requirements of a discretionary permit shall be
passed on to the new property owner when there is a change of ownership.
   (D)   Permit constitutes precise plan. Upon approval, a discretionary permit
constitutes a precise development plan. Therefore, all development authorized
under a discretionary permit and any land uses associated with the permit shall
be in compliance with the plans, specifications and conditions of approval
shown on and/or attached to the approved permit.
   (E)   Enforceability of permit provisions. All conditions, requirements and
standards specified either in writing or graphically as part of any approved
discretionary permit granted by authority of this article shall have the same
force and effect as this zoning code. Any land use or development established
as a result of an approved discretionary permit which is not in compliance with
all such conditions, requirements or standards shall be in violation of this
article. The provisions of Subchapter 2, Article 13 shall also apply.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-113.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-113.2 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   A property owner, an agent with notarized written authorization from the
property owner or a public agency may submit an application for a discretionary
permit. Within 30 days of receipt of the application, the Director shall
determine whether the application is complete and shall transmit such
determination to the applicant. If the application is determined not to be
complete, the Director shall specify in writing those parts of the application
which are incomplete and shall indicate the manner in which they can be made
complete.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-113.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
61, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-113.3 ACTIONS BY DECISION-MAKING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Permit Streamlining Act. This section is intended to be fully
consistent and in full compliance with the time limits and other provisions of
the California Government Code, §§ 65920 et seq. (referred to as “the Permit
Streamlining Act”) and shall be so construed.
   (B)   Possible actions. The decision-making authority may take one of the
following actions on each application for a discretionary permit.
      (1)   Approval. An application may be approved with no conditions or
requirements other than the design features and other elements incorporated
within the application and accompanying plans. After the action’s effective
date, as defined in division (F) below, and after approval of any required plan
revisions per division (G) below, the proposed land use or development may be
established in compliance with all applicable regulations and the approved
project plans and specifications.
      (2)   Conditional approval. An application may be approved subject to
compliance with conditions. Conditions may require the dedication of land,
installation of improvements, limitations on operational characteristics, the
posting of financial security to guarantee performance or other conditions
necessary to achieve the objectives of the general plan and this zoning code.
After the action’s effective date, as defined in division (F) below, and after
approval of any required plan revisions per division (G) below, the proposed
land use or development may be established in compliance with all applicable
regulations, the approved project plans and specifications and the requirements
of the conditions of approval.
      (3)   Denial.
         (a)   The decision-making authority may deny an application if it
finds that approval of a discretionary permit would create conditions
materially detrimental to the public health, safety and general welfare or
injurious to or incompatible with other properties or land uses in the
vicinity, or that other “required findings” for approval specified in §
9-1-114 cannot be made.
         (b)   When a discretionary application has been denied, a new
application on the same property shall not thereafter be accepted for a period
of one year from the date of final determination, unless the Director
determines that there are substantial changes to the proposed project design
and/or operational characteristics or unless the decision-making authority has
specified that this time limitation shall not apply. This time limitation on
re-submittal of applications is not applicable to other discretionary permits.
      (4)   Continuances and tabling. Any hearing may be continued, and no
further public notice shall be required unless the hearing is not continued to
a specific date/time, in which case the hearing shall be re-noticed.
   (C)   Findings. For discretionary permits, the decision-making authority
shall adopt “required findings”, as specified in §
9-1-114, in conjunction with approval or conditional approval of such a permit.
A determination by the decision-making authority that one or more required
findings cannot be made shall constitute grounds for denial of a discretionary
permit.
   (D)   Withdrawal of application. A discretionary permit application may be
withdrawn at the request of the applicant. When an application is withdrawn,
such action is effective immediately and is not subject to appeal. Thereafter,
such application shall be null and void and the subject property shall have the
same status as if no application had been filed.
   (E)   Action in writing. The decision on each application, including any
required findings and any other reasons that serve to explain the
determination, plus all conditions of approval shall be in writing. A copy of
the written determination shall be forwarded to the applicant following the
date of final determination and shall be made available at cost to any person
requesting such a copy.
   (F)   Effective date. The determination of the decision-making authority
shall be effective 15 consecutive days after the date the decision is made or
after all appeals, if any, have been acted on. However, when an application
accompanies or relies on the approval of a coastal development permit or
subdivision approval, the determination of such application shall not be
effective until the coastal development permit or subdivision approval is
effective in compliance with the provisions of §
9-1-116 or the subdivision code, respectively.
   (G)   Plan revisions per condition of approval. When the decision-making
authority approves an application for any discretionary permit in a manner that
is different from that which was presented to it, it may require revised plans
to be submitted as a condition of approval. No building or grading permits or
certificates of use and occupancy authorized by a discretionary permit shall be
issued until such revised plans are submitted to the Community Development
Department and found by the Director to be consistent with the action of the
decision-making authority. If such revision is not submitted within 60 days
after the action’s effective date or within a time otherwise specified by the
decision-making authority, the permit approval shall thereafter be null and
void. However, prior to the expiration of this period, the Director may grant
one extension of time of an additional 60 days if it is requested and justified
by the applicant.
   (H)   Tie votes. If there is a tie vote on a discretionary permit
application by the decision-making authority, such vote shall constitute denial
of the:
      (1)   Discretionary permit;
      (2)   Coastal development permit;
      (3)   Appeal of an action on a discretionary permit pursuant to §
9-1-112.2. That is, a tie vote allows the original decision to stand; and
      (4)   Proposed permit revocation pursuant to §
9-1-113.9. That is, a tie vote allows the permit to remain valid.
   (I)   Use of more restrictive standards. In conjunction with approval of a
discretionary permit, the decision-making authority may impose more restrictive
site development standards than set forth in this code in order to make the
required findings for each type of permit as specified in this article.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-113.3) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
62, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-113.4 TIME LIMITS ON PROCESSING APPLICATIONS.
   Discretionary permits shall be processed within the time limits specified in
Chapter 4.5 of the California Planning and Zoning Law (California Government
Code, §§ 65920 et seq.). Time periods specified in §
9-1-112.2 regarding actions on appeals shall be in addition to the preceding
California Government Code time limits.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-113.4) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-113.5 PERMIT ESTABLISHMENT AND EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Period of validity. The period of validity for a discretionary permit
shall begin on the permit’s effective date as set forth in §
9-1-113.3. The period of validity shall expire two years from the effective
date, or for such longer period of time determined by the decision-making
authority unless that permit or use is established pursuant to division (B)
below.
   (B)   Establishment. A discretionary permit shall be deemed established if
the following actions occur within two years of the permit’s effective date or
within such other time period designated by the permit approval.
      (1)   In the case of a discretionary permit providing for construction, a
building permit has been issued for a component of the approved project and
actual construction and inspections have commenced. (For purposes of this
section, ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION shall mean the placing of construction materials
in their permanent position fastened in a permanent manner, except that where a
basement, subterranean room or garage, swimming pool or spa is being excavated,
such excavation shall be deemed to be actual construction; providing, in all
cases, that actual construction work be diligently carried on until the
completion of the entire building or structure involved.)
      (2)   In the case of a discretionary permit where no construction is
involved, the use authorized by the permit has been established and a
certificate of occupancy has been issued (if applicable).
   (C)   Expiration. A discretionary permit shall expire and be of no further
force or effect if:
      (1)   The permit is not established within two years of the permit’s
effective date or such other time period designated by the permit approval, by
state law or by this code; or
      (2)   After establishment, the use or activity for which the permit was
approved is discontinued or abandoned for a period of one year.
   (D)   Time extensions.
      (1)   When a discretionary permit is due to expire, the Director shall
have the authority to extend the period of validity of the discretionary permit
for up to two additional years. The property owner or authorized agent must
request an extension in writing at least 30 days prior to the expiration date,
must provide a deposit or fee as set forth by resolution of the City Council
and must provide a letter of justification explaining how the following
objectives can be made:
         (a)   All elements of the discretionary permit continue to be
consistent with the city’s original findings and there have been no code or
other city policy changes that would substantially affect the application; and
         (b)   All significant environmental effects of the project were
analyzed at the time of discretionary permit approval. There are no new and
previously unknown or undisclosed negative environmental impacts.
      (2)   The Director shall approve or deny the extension based upon their
concurrence with and verification of the above objectives. One subsequent
extension may be requested to extend the period of validity of the
discretionary permit for an additional two years (six years total from original
approval date), subject to the requirements above. Subsequent extensions shall
require the filing of a new discretionary permit application. A decision by the
Director of may be appealed to the Planning Commission using the same procedure
as that specified in §
9-1-112.2.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-113.5) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
63, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-113.6 REVIEW OF MULTI-PHASE PROJECTS.
   (A)   Purpose. Projects such as large shopping centers, business parks and
the like often incorporate development phases submitted subsequent to approval
of the main project. This section sets forth procedures for review of such
phased projects.
   (B)   Master site development permit.
      (1)   When a multi-phase project is submitted, a master site development
permit (SDP) case number shall be assigned.
      (2)   This master SDP will cover review of the following:
         (a)   Buildings, development details and other improvements within the
initial phase; and
         (b)   Land uses, approximate pad locations and sizes and related
information for all subsequent development phases.
   (C)   Subsequent phases. If the master SDP is approved, applications for
subsequent development phases shall be processed under separate site
development permits (and other permits if required), or as otherwise provided
for by the master SDP.
   (D)   Director’s authority. The Director may vary from the preceding
procedures in individual cases if the Director determines that public review of
the project will be enhanced or that the public interest will otherwise be
better served.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-113.6) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-113.7 CHANGED PLANS PERMIT.
   (A)   Plan changes by applicant. Plans changed at the initiative of the
applicant from those approved by the decision-making authority may be submitted
to the Director.
   (B)   Procedures. If the Director determines that the proposed plan change
is minor, will not result in a significant change in the project approved by
the decision-making authority and complies with the spirit and intent of the
original approving action, the Director may approve the changed plan without
further compliance with this section. If the Director determines that the
changed plan may result in a significant change in the project, an amendment to
the approved discretionary permit is required per §
9-1-113.8.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-113.7) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
64, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-113.8 AMENDMENTS TO DISCRETIONARY PERMITS.
   (A)   Discretionary permit amendments. Amendments are required for proposed
revisions to discretionary permit conditions of approval, project
characteristics or approved plans that are more substantial than the “changed
plan” modifications provided for in §
9-1-113.7 preceding, new or additional land uses or similar major changes.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   A discretionary permit may be amended any number of times by the
approval of a subsequent application. All permit amendments shall be for the
same parcel or property for which a discretionary permit was previously
approved. Amendments shall be filed in compliance with the same filing
procedures and payment of the same filing fee required for an original
application. Amendments shall be processed in the same manner as an original
application.
         (2)   Exception: the Director may approve a site development amendment
administratively regardless of the original decision-making authority if they
determine that the proposed modifications would not otherwise require review
and approval by the original approving body.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-113.8) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
65, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-113.9 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   Grounds for revocation. Any discretionary permit may be revoked by the
decision-making authority or by the City Council pursuant to the provisions of
this section on any of the following grounds:
      (1)   Such approval was based on inaccurate or misleading information;
      (2)   One or more of the conditions upon which such approval was granted
or extended have been violated;
      (3)   A change in conditions occurring after the original grant of the
approval or the continuation of the use as approved is contrary to public
health, safety or general welfare, or is detrimental or incompatible with other
permitted uses in the vicinity;
      (4)   The findings which were the basis for the original permit approval
can no longer be made;
      (5)   After establishment, there was a significant change in the
operational characteristics of the use which was not provided for in the
approved permit; and
      (6)   Other grounds as set forth elsewhere in this code, such as, but not
limited to, those for adult-oriented business regulatory permits (reference §§
5-5-11 et seq.).
   (B)   Procedure. Prior to any revocation action, the decision-making
authority shall hold a public hearing noticed and held in accordance with §
9-1-112.1, except that the permittee shall be given not less than 15 days’
notice. The notice shall state the causes for which the revocation is to be
considered.
   (C)   Action by decision-making authority. Following the hearing, the
decision-making authority may revoke the permit or revoke the permit subject to
reinstatement upon compliance with the conditions of the original permit.
   (D)   Amortization. If a revocation of any permit is ordered, the decision-
making authority may, at the same time, provide for a reasonable period of time
to amortize any lawful existing uses on the site. Extensions of this time
period may be granted for good cause shown on later application to the
decision-making authority by any affected person.
   (E)   Appeal. Any action by the decision-making authority pursuant to this
section may be appealed as set forth in §
9-1-112.2.
   (F)   New decision-making authority. If the decision-making authority which
granted a permit is no longer in existence or no longer issues such permits,
the authority which would issue such permit at the time revocation is to be
considered shall be the decision-making authority as that term is used in this
section.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-113.9) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-113.10 WITHDRAWAL OF INACTIVE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. The Community Development Director has the authority to
deem the application withdrawn if the application is inactive for 180 days or
more due to inactivity. Applications are inactive when requested materials,
funds or other information necessary to proceed with the processing of an
application is not submitted.
   (B)   Withdrawal procedures.
      (1)   When an application is inactive for 90 days or more, a letter is
sent via certified mail to inform applicants that they have 90 days to submit
requested materials, funds or other information necessary to proceed with the
processing of an application.
      (2)   If requested materials or funds are not received within the 90 days
(a total of 180 calendar days since an application begins to be inactive), then
the Community Development Director has the authority to deem the application
withdrawn and refund unused deposit account funds in accordance with §
9-1-119, if applicable.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-113.10) (Ord. 2021-210, § 66, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-114 DISCRETIONARY PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   All references to this §
9-1-114 shall include §§
9-1-114.1 through
9-1-114.10. This section provides specific procedures for the review of
individual types of discretionary permits, such as site development permits,
use permits and others.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-114) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-114.1 SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of a site development permit is to ensure that
the development and design standards of this zoning code, including, but not
limited to, permitted uses, development standards, supplemental regulations and
community design guidelines, are satisfied. The site development permit process
provides a means of achieving this purpose through city review of detailed
plans for proposed development projects.
   (B)   Site development permit. For purposes of this code, site,
architectural, landscaping and related development plans are included within
the term “site development permit”.
   (C)   Applicability. A site development permit is required for all projects
which involve the construction of or alteration to any structure or as
otherwise required in the zoning code, except for the following:
      (1)   Construction of or alterations to single family homes or associated
accessory structures unless a site development permit is required by another
applicable discretionary permit or by a specific provision of this zoning code;
      (2)   Individual signs (requires sign permit per §
9-1-114.10), other than sign programs or other sign approvals which require
approval of a site development permit per Subchapter 2, Article 7;
      (3)   Temporary uses (requires temporary use permit per §
9-1-114.6); and
      (4)   Where the Director determines that another type of permit (such as
a use permit, minor adjustment and the like) serves the same purpose.
   (D)   Alterations. A site development permit shall also be required for
alterations to buildings or non-building project improvements identified in §
9-1-92.1(C) per the community design guidelines of this code.
   (E)   Grading and excavation. A site development permit shall also be
required for qualifying grading and excavation operations per §
9-1-114.8.
   (F)   Decision-making authority. The Director shall determine, on a case-by-
case basis, whether the public interest would be better served by review of the
permit by the Director or by the Planning Commission and whether a public
hearing is required for review by the Planning Commission.
   (G)   Design review. In addition to applicable zoning standards contained in
this code, site development permits shall be reviewed under the community
design guidelines contained in Subchapter 2, Article 9.
   (H)   Precise development plan. Upon approval, a site development permit
constitutes a precise development plan. Therefore, all development authorized
under a site development permit and any land uses associated with the
development shall be in compliance with the plans, specifications and
conditions of approval shown on and/or attached to the approved permit.
   (I)   Alternate development standards.
      (1)   Development standards, such as for setbacks, height, parking and
signs, are contained in Subchapter 2, Articles 3 through 7. However,
alternative standards may be proposed in conjunction with a site development
permit application.
      (2)   No project with such alternative development standards shall be
approved, unless the decision-making body makes the following finding in
addition to the standard findings for approval of a site development permit set
forth in division (H) above:
“The use of the alternate development standards will result in a project design
superior to that under the baseline development standards in this code, or will
result in public benefit(s) which would not have been realized under the
baseline standards.”
      (3)   The burden of proof for the alternative standards shall be on the
applicant to justify the preceding finding. If the decision-making body
determines that the preceding finding cannot be made, it shall deny the site
development permit.
   (J)   Required findings. All of the following findings shall be made by the
decision-making authority in conjunction with the approval of a site
development permit.
      (1)   Consistency with general plan. The project is consistent with the
general plan.
      (2)   Consistency with zoning code. The project is consistent with the
provisions of this zoning code.
      (3)   Compliance with CEQA. Processing and approval of the permit
application are in compliance with the requirements of CEQA.
      (4)   Consistency with design standards. The project is consistent with
the goal and objectives of the community design standards as set forth in §
9-1-91.2.
      (5)   Surrounding uses. Approval of the application will not create
conditions materially detrimental to the public health, safety and general
welfare or injurious to or incompatible with other properties or land uses in
the vicinity.
   (K)   Appeals. Appeals to decisions on site development permits shall be
reviewed in accordance with §
9-1-112.2.
   (L)   Establishment and time extensions. Per §
9-1-113.5, a site development permit shall expire if the development is not
established within two years from the permit’s effective date, or within such
other time period as set by the decision-making authority. Time extensions may
be granted pursuant to §
9-1-113.5.
   (M)   Amendments. Amendments to site development permits shall be processed
pursuant to §
9-1-113.8.
   (N)   Staff review of construction plans. Prior to issuance of a building
permit, the Director shall determine that final construction plans
substantially conform to preliminary plans (schematic elevations, preliminary
site and landscape plans and the like) approved as part of the site development
permit.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-114.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
67, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-114.2 USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of a use permit is to provide for individual
approval or denial of land uses requiring such a permit under this code. Such
uses have potential for adverse impacts on surrounding properties, residents or
businesses. Therefore, when such uses are approved, conditions are placed on
their establishment and operation to mitigate or eliminate such impacts.
   (B)   Applicability. A use permit is required for all land uses identified
as requiring such a permit in this code.
   (C)   Decision-making authority. The Director shall determine, on a case-by-
case basis, whether the public interest would be better served by review of the
permit by the Director or by the Planning Commission and whether a public
hearing is required for review by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Design review. If a use permit is combined with a site development
permit, the community design guidelines of Subchapter 2, Article 9 shall apply.
   (E)   Precise permit. The establishment and operation of any land use
authorized under a use permit and any development associated with the permit
shall be in compliance with the approved permit and any plans, specifications
and conditions of approval shown on and/or attached to the permit at all times.
   (F)   Required findings. All of the following findings shall be made by the
decision-making authority in conjunction with the approval of a use permit.
      (1)   Consistency with general plan. The use is consistent with the
general plan.
      (2)   Consistency with zoning code. The use is consistent with the
provisions of this zoning code.
      (3)   Compliance with CEQA. Processing and approval of the permit
application are in compliance with the requirements of CEQA.
      (4)   Consistency with design standards. If development is provided for
under the use permit, the project is consistent with the goal and objectives of
the community design guidelines as set forth in Subchapter 2, Article 9.
      (5)   Surrounding uses. Approval of the application will not create
conditions materially detrimental to the public health, safety and general
welfare or injurious to or incompatible with other properties or land uses in
the vicinity.
   (G)   Appeals. Appeals to decisions on use permits shall be reviewed in
accordance with §
9-1-112.2.
   (H)   Establishment and time extensions. Per §
9-1-113.5, a use permit shall expire if the use is not established within two
years from the permit’s effective date, or within such other time period as set
by the decision-making authority. Time extensions may be granted pursuant to §
9-1-113.5.
   (I)   Amendments. Amendments to use permits shall be processed pursuant to §
9-1-113.8.
   (J)   Staff review of construction plans. If development is provided for
under the use permit, prior to issuance of a building permit, the Director
shall determine that final construction plans substantially conform to
preliminary plans (schematic elevations, preliminary site and landscape plans
and the like) approved as part of the use permit.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-114.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
68, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-114.3 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of a variance permit is to provide for deviations
from applicable standards of this zoning code, such as the development
standards set forth in Subchapter 2, Articles 3 and 4.
   (B)   Applicability. A variance permit is required for any development which
is not consistent with applicable development standards or other regulations of
this code and which is not eligible for consideration as an exception or a
minor adjustment.
   (C)   Decision-making authority. Variances shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission in conjunction with a public hearing held pursuant to §
9-1-112.1.
   (D)   Design review. If a variance permit is combined with a site
development permit, the community design guidelines of Subchapter 2, Article 9
shall apply.
   (E)   Conditions of approval. If a variance is approved, conditions may be
placed on the permit to mitigate or eliminate adverse impacts on surrounding
properties, residents or businesses.
   (F)   Precise development plan. Upon approval, a variance permit constitutes
a precise development plan. Therefore, any development or other activity
authorized under such a permit shall be in compliance with the plans,
specifications and conditions of approval shown on and/or attached to the
approved permit.
   (G)   Required findings. All of the following findings shall be made by the
decision-making authority in conjunction with the approval of a variance
permit.
      (1)   Consistency with general plan. The project is consistent with the
general plan.
      (2)   Consistency with zoning code. Except for the specific deviation(s)
from the code allowed by the variance, the project is consistent with the
provisions of this zoning code.
      (3)   Compliance with CEQA. Processing and approval of the permit
application are in compliance with the requirements of CEQA.
      (4)   Surrounding uses. Approval of the application will not create
conditions materially detrimental to the public health, safety and general
welfare or injurious to or incompatible with other properties or land uses in
the vicinity.
      (5)   Special circumstances. There are special circumstances applicable
to the subject property, including size, shape, topography, location or
surroundings, which, when the zoning regulations are strictly applied, deprive
the property of privileges enjoyed by other properties in the vicinity subject
to the same zoning regulations. The special circumstances shall be specified in
the adopted finding.
      (6)   Preservation of property rights. The granting of the variance is
necessary for the preservation of a substantial property right possessed by
other properties in the same vicinity and zoning district and otherwise denied
to the subject property.
      (7)   No special privileges. The variance permit’s required conditions of
approval assure that the adjustment authorized will not constitute a grant of
special privileges which are inconsistent with the limitations placed upon
other properties in the vicinity subject to the same zoning regulations.
      (8)   No use variance. The approval does not authorize a land use or
activity which is not permitted in the applicable zoning district.
   (H)   Appeals. Appeals to decisions on variance permits shall be reviewed in
accordance with §
9-1-112.2.
   (I)   Establishment and time extensions. Per §
9-1-113.5, a variance permit shall expire if not established within two years
from the permit’s effective date or within such other time period as set by the
decision-making authority. Time extensions may be granted pursuant to §
9-1-113.5.
   (J)   Amendments. Amendments to variance permits shall be processed pursuant
to §
9-1-113.8.
   (K)   Staff review of construction plans. If development is provided for
under the variance permit, prior to issuance of a building permit, the Director
shall determine that final construction plans conform to preliminary plans
(schematic elevations, preliminary site and landscape plans and the like)
approved as part of the variance permit.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-114.3) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-114.4 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 9-1-114.5 MINOR ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of a minor adjustment permit is to provide for
certain minor deviations from certain specific development standards set forth
in this code. Minor adjustments have little or no potential for adverse impacts
on the surrounding community and are reviewed administratively.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   A minor adjustment permit may be approved for the following
deviations from standards:
         (a)   Up to 20% increase in maximum structure heights for
nonresidential structures only;
         (b)   Up to 20% increase in maximum sign size and height;
         (c)   Up to 20% reduction in minimum setbacks in order to allow a
setback encroachment already prevalent on other properties in the same zoning
district and vicinity;
         (d)   Modification or enlargement to a nonconforming portion of a
residential structure if the current construction valuation of the alterations
does not exceed 50% of the current construction valuation of the entire
structure (see §
9-1-124);
         (e)   Increases in maximum fence height (see §
9-1-35.2);
         (f)   Encroachment of balconies, elevated decks and exterior stairways
into front or rear setback (see §
9-1-33.3); and
         (g)   Other deviations as set forth in this zoning code or determined
by the Director to be consistent with the purpose of this section.
      (2)   Deviations not provided for in the preceding listing shall require
consideration of a variance pursuant to §
9-1-114.3.
   (C)   Decision-making authority. Minor adjustments shall be reviewed
administratively by the Director, pursuant to §
9-1-111, unless referred to the Planning Commission by the Director or combined
with another application which requires discretionary review by the Planning
Commission or City Council pursuant to this article. A public hearing or public
notification is not required for administrative actions, although the Director
may notify residents or property owners near the subject property if the
Director determines on a case-by-case basis that the public interest would be
served by such notification.
   (D)   Conditions of approval. If a minor adjustment is approved, conditions
may be placed on the permit to mitigate or eliminate adverse impacts on
surrounding properties, residents or businesses.
   (E)   Precise development plan. Upon approval, a minor adjustment permit
constitutes a precise development plan. Therefore, any development authorized
under such a permit shall be in compliance with the plans, specifications and
conditions of approval shown on and/or attached to the approved permit.
   (F)   Required findings. All of the following findings shall be made by the
decision-making authority in conjunction with the approval of a minor
adjustment permit.
      (1)   Consistency with general plan. The project is consistent with the
general plan.
      (2)   Consistency with zoning code. Except for any deviation(s) from the
code allowed by the minor adjustment, the project is consistent with the
provisions of this zoning code.
      (3)   Compliance with CEQA. Processing and approval of the permit
application are in compliance with the requirements of CEQA.
      (4)   Better design. Approval of the minor adjustment will result in a
project design which is equivalent to or better than a project without the
adjustment.
      (5)   Surrounding uses. Approval of the application will not create
conditions materially detrimental to the public health, safety and general
welfare or injurious to or incompatible with other properties or land uses in
the vicinity.
   (G)   Appeals. Appeals to decisions on minor adjustments shall be reviewed
in accordance with §
9-1-112.2.
   (H)   Establishment and time extensions. Per §
9-1-113.5, a minor adjustment permit shall expire if not established within two
years from the permit’s effective date, or within such other time period as set
by the decision-making authority. Time extensions may be granted pursuant to §
9-1-113.5.
   (I)   Amendments to minor adjustment permits. Amendments to minor
adjustments shall be processed pursuant to §
9-1-113.8.
   (J)   Staff review of construction plans. Prior to issuance of a building
permit, the Director shall determine that final construction plans conform to
preliminary plans (schematic elevations, preliminary site and landscape plans
and the like) approved as part of the minor adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-114.5) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-114.6 TEMPORARY USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of a temporary use permit is to regulate certain
temporary land uses and activities identified in this code so as to ensure that
adverse impacts on surrounding properties, residents and businesses are
minimized; that the time limitations for temporary uses are specified and
complied with; and that the site of the temporary use is restored to its
condition prior to establishment of the use.
   (B)   Applicability. A temporary use permit is required for temporary uses
permitted in residential, nonresidential and special purpose districts (under
Subchapter 2, Articles 3, 4 and 5, respectively). In cases where it is not
immediately apparent if a use is eligible for consideration as a temporary use,
the Director shall decide.
   (C)   Decision-making authority. Temporary use permits shall be reviewed
administratively by the Director, pursuant to §
9-1-111, unless referred to the Planning Commission by the Director. A public
hearing or public notification is not required for administrative actions,
although the Director may notify residents or property owners near the subject
property if the Director determines on a case-by-case basis that the public
interest would be served by such notification.
   (D)   Conditions of approval. If a temporary use is approved, conditions may
be placed on the permit to mitigate or eliminate adverse impacts on surrounding
properties, residents or businesses.
   (E)   Precise development plan. Upon approval, a temporary use permit
constitutes a precise development plan. Therefore, any use or development
authorized under such a permit shall be in compliance with the plans,
specifications and conditions of approval shown on and/or attached to the
approved permit.
   (F)   Required findings. All of the following findings shall be made by the
decision-making authority in conjunction with the approval of a temporary use
permit.
      (1)   Consistency with general plan. The use is consistent with the
general plan.
      (2)   Consistency with zoning code. The use is consistent with the
provisions of this zoning code.
      (3)   Compliance with CEQA. Processing and approval of the permit
application are in compliance with the requirements of CEQA.
      (4)   Surrounding uses. Approval of the application will not create
conditions materially detrimental to the public health, safety and general
welfare or injurious to or incompatible with other properties or land uses in
the vicinity.
      (5)   Compliance with standards. The standards set forth in the
applicable section of this code specifying regulations for the use have been
satisfied. If no standards are specified, the Director may establish such
standards as conditions of approval for the particular temporary use proposed.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-114.6) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-114.7 HOME OCCUPATION PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of a home occupation permit is to regulate
certain incidental and accessory home enterprises in residential neighborhoods
under conditions that will ensure their compatibility with the neighborhood.
Regulations for home occupations are set forth in §
9-1-35.10.
   (B)   Applicability. A home occupation permit is required for home
occupations conducted within a residence which are accessory to the main
residential use of the dwelling and which are permitted pursuant to §
9-1-35.10. In cases where it is not immediately apparent if a use is eligible
for consideration as a home occupation, the Director shall decide.
   (C)   Decision-making authority. Home occupation permits shall be reviewed
administratively by the Director pursuant to §
9-1-111, unless referred to the Planning Commission by the Director. A public
hearing or public notification is not required for administrative actions,
although the Director may notify residents or property owners near the subject
property if the Director determines on a case-by-case basis that the public
interest would be served by such notification.
   (D)   Conditions of approval. If a home occupation is approved, conditions
may be placed on the permit to mitigate or eliminate adverse impacts on
surrounding properties, residents or businesses.
   (E)   Compliance with permit. Any use or activity authorized under a home
occupation permit shall be in compliance with the specifications and conditions
of approval shown on and/or attached to the approved permit. Failure to comply
with such specifications and conditions of approval may result in revocation of
the permit.
   (F)   Required findings. Findings required for approval of a home occupation
permit shall be deemed to have been made if the Director determines that the
standards set forth in §
9-1-35.10 for home occupations have been satisfied.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-114.7) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-114.8 GRADING PERMITS.
   (A)   Grading code. Grading and excavation operations are permitted in all
districts in compliance with the regulations of the city’s grading and
excavation code.
   (B)   Site development permit. In addition to the requirements of the
grading and excavation code, grading and excavation operations are subject to
the approval of a site development permit per §
9-1-114.1, except for the following:
      (1)   When such operations involve the excavation or relocation of less
than 5,000 cubic yards, the total number of cubic yards shall be the larger of
cut, including any export, or fill, including any import;
      (2)   Grading and excavation conducted in compliance with a building
permit when limited to the area within the perimeter (footprint) of the
structure, e.g., basement or foundation;
      (3)   Emergency grading to correct damage resulting from recent acts of
nature, as determined by the Director; and
      (4)   Other exemptions as defined in §
8-1-805, grading and excavation code, required permits.
   (C)   Hillside protection ordinance. Grading and excavation operations shall
conform to the provisions of the hillside protection ordinance (HPO) in
Subchapter 2, Article 8.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-114.8) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
70, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-114.9 CERTIFICATES OF USE AND OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Terminology. For purposes of this zoning code, the term CERTIFICATE OF
OCCUPANCY shall mean the same as CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY.
   (B)   Certificate required. The following uses and events require prior
issuance of a certificate of occupancy therefor by the Director:
      (1)   Any use or structure as required by the California Building Code;
      (2)   The use or occupation of a building or other structure previously
posted as uninhabitable; and
      (3)   A change in name or ownership of a business.
   (C)   Application to occupy building. Application for a certificate of
occupancy for a new building or for an existing building which has been
altered, moved or previously posted as uninhabitable shall be made in
compliance with the provisions of the adopted 2025 California Building Code and
related codes as adopted by the City Council.
   (D)   Administration. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the
Director finds that the building or proposed use of the building or land
complies with all applicable zoning regulations, the conditions and
requirements of any applicable discretionary permit, the adopted 2025
California Building Code and related codes and all other applicable laws and
regulations. A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file
permanently in the Community Development Department and copies shall be
furnished on request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in
the building or land affected.
   (E)   Filing fee. A filing fee to defray the cost of processing applications
for certificate of use and occupancy shall be paid in accordance with the fee
schedule currently in effect as adopted by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-114.9) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
71, passed 8-3-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Applicable related codes, see §
8-1-12
§ 9-1-114.10 SIGNS.
   Signs, either permanent or temporary, permitted under Subchapter 2, Article
7 may be erected if a sign permit is approved for the sign. The Director may
integrate required sign permits into the building permit application and
process or into other applicable permit processes.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-114.10) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-115 ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS PERMITS.
   Adult-oriented business regulatory permits shall be processed in accordance
with §§
5-5-11 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-115) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-116 COASTAL DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   All references to this §
9-1-116 shall include §§
9-1-116.1 through
9-1-116.5. This section sets forth procedures for discretionary review within
the city’s coastal zone pursuant to the city’s certified local coastal programs
(LCPs). The city’s two LCPs, included as part of this zoning code by reference
as appendixes Band C, are the South Laguna specific plan/LCP and the Aliso
Creek planning unit LCP. These LCPs provide zoning, land use and development
standards for land within the coastal zone. In cases where an LCP is silent on
a land use, development or other zoning issue, the provisions of this code
shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-116) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-116.1 COASTAL ZONE DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to all areas within the coastal zone.
In case of a conflict between the definitions contained in this section and
those contained in Subchapter 2, Article 14, the definitions contained in this
section shall prevail within the coastal zone.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who, in person or through a representative,
appeared at a public hearing regarding a coastal development permit; or who,
prior to action on a coastal development permit, informed the city in writing
of their concerns about an application for such permit; or who, for good cause,
was unable to do either and objects to the action taken on such permit and
wishes to appeal such action to a higher authority.
   APPEALABLE DEVELOPMENT. Any coastal development permit application that may
be appealed to the California Coastal Commission, pursuant to the Coastal Act
of 1976, as amended, being California Coastal Act (California Public Resources
Code, §§ 30000 et seq.).
   CERTIFIED LOCAL COASTAL PROGRAM. A plan for the use of property within the
coastal zone, together with the zoning ordinance, zoning district maps and
other necessary implementing actions, which has been adopted by the city and
certified by the California Coastal Commission, pursuant to the California
Public Resources Code.
   COASTAL ACT or CALIFORNIA COASTAL ACT. The California Coastal Act of 1976,
as amended, being California Public Resources Code, §§ 30000 et seq.
   COASTAL BLUFF.
      (1)   Any bluff where the toe of the slope is now or within the past 200
years has been subject to marine erosion.
      (2)   Any bluff where the toe of the slope is not now or was not
historically subject to marine erosion, but the toe of which lies within an
area otherwise identified in California Public Resources Code, § 30603(a)(1) or
(a)(2).
   COASTAL COMMISSION. The California Coastal Commission established pursuant
to the California Coastal Act (California Public Resources Code, §§ 30000 et
seq.).
   COASTAL DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the city or the Coastal
Commission which is an approval of a use subject to the provisions of this §
9-1-116 and the Coastal Act, being California Coastal Act (California Public
Resources Code, §§ 30000 et seq.).
   COASTAL ZONE. The area of land and water extending seaward to the state’s
outer limit of jurisdiction and within the city specified on a coastal zone map
adopted by the state legislature as adjusted by the Coastal Commission pursuant
to the requirements of the California Coastal Act, being California Coastal Act
(California Public Resources Code, §§ 30000 et seq.).
   DECISION-MAKING AUTHORITY. Any person, committee, commission or board
authorized by the applicable zoning or specific plan regulations, or by the
provisions of this section, to approve, conditionally approve or disapprove a
coastal development permit application or project.
   DEVELOPMENT. On land, or in or under water, the placement or erection of any
solid material or structure; discharge or disposal of any dredged material or
of any gaseous, liquid, solid or thermal waste; grading, removing, dredging,
mining or extraction of any materials; change in the density or intensity of
use of land, including, but not limited to, subdivision pursuant to the
Subdivision Map Act, and any other division of land, including lot splits,
except where the land division is brought about in connection with the purchase
of such land by a public agency for public recreational use; change in the
intensity of use of water, or of access thereto; construction, reconstruction,
demolition or alteration of the size of any structure, including any facility
of any private, public or municipal utility; and the removal or harvesting of
major vegetation other than for agricultural purposes, and kelp harvesting.
   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. Any of the uses, activities or structures listed under
the definition of DEVELOPMENT in this section when carried out, undertaken or
established individually or independently of any other such use, activity or
structure; or any group or combination of the listed uses, activities or
structures which combine to form or are a component part of an integrated
project.
   ENERGY FACILITY. Any public or private processing, producing, generating,
storing, transmitting or recovering facility for electricity, natural gas,
petroleum, coal or other source of energy.
   ESTUARY. All areas within the mean high tide line of any coastal water body
subject to tidal action, usually semi-enclosed by land, having open, partially
obstructed or intermittent exchange with the open sea and in which ocean water
is at least occasionally diluted by freshwater runoff from the land.
   FIRST PUBLIC ROAD PARALLELING THE SEA.
      (1)   The inland right-of-way line of that street or highway nearest to
the sea which is generally parallel to the sea and which:
         (a)   Is lawfully open and suitable for uninterrupted use by the
public;
         (b)   Is maintained by a public agency;
         (c)   Is an improved all-weather road open to motor vehicle traffic in
at least one direction;
         (d)   Is not subject to any restrictions on use by the public except
during an emergency or for military purposes; and
         (e)   Connects with other public roads providing a continuous access
system and generally parallels and follows the shoreline of the sea so as to
include all portions of the sea where the physical features such as bays,
lagoons, estuaries and wetlands cause the waters of the sea to extend landward
of the generally continuous coastline.
      (2)   Whenever no public road can be designated which conforms to all
provisions of divisions (1)(a) through (1)(e) above, and a public road does
exist which conforms to all provisions of divisions (1)(a) through (1)(d) of
this definition, the effect of designating the first public road paralleling
the sea shall be limited to the following:
         (a)   All parcels between the Pacific Ocean and such other public
road; and
         (b)   Those parcels immediately adjacent to the sea and inland of such
other public road.
   INLAND EXTENT OF THE BEACH. The rocky shoreline to the toe of the bluff, and
all wet and dry sand area to the seaward vegetation line, to the toe of the
bluff, or to a linear feature, such as a seawall, a road or other permanent
structures.
   LOCAL COASTAL PROGRAM. See CERTIFIED LOCAL COASTAL PROGRAM.
   MAJOR ENERGY FACILITY. Any energy facility exceeding $50,000.00, or such
minimum as may be adopted by the state, in actual or estimated cost of
construction.
   MAJOR PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT. Any public works project exceeding $50,000.00,
or such other minimum as may be adopted by the state, in actual or estimated
cost of construction.
   PERSON. Any individual, organization, partnership or other business
association or corporation, including any utility and any federal, state or
local government or special district, or an agency thereof.
   PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USE. The permitted main use that is designated
specifically in the zoning district or specific plan regulation district of
each specific certified local coastal program segment.
   PUBLIC TRUST LANDS. All lands subject to the Common Law Public Trust for
commerce, navigation, fisheries, recreation and other public purposes,
including tidelands, submerged lands, beds of navigable lakes and rivers and
historic tidelands and submerged lands that are presently filled or reclaimed
and which were subject to the public trust at any time.
   PUBLIC WORKS.
      (1)   All production, storage, transmission and recovery facilities for
water, sewerage, telephone and other similar utilities owned or operated by any
public agency or by any utility subject to the jurisdiction of the Public
Utilities Commission, except for energy facilities;
      (2)   All public transportation facilities, including streets, roads,
highways, public parking lots and structures, ports, harbors, airports,
railroads and mass transit facilities and stations, bridges, trolley wires and
other related facilities;
      (3)   All publicly financed recreational facilities, all projects of the
state coastal conservancy and any development by a special district; and
      (4)   All community college facilities.
   SEA. The Pacific Ocean and all harbors, bays, channels, estuaries, salt
marshes, sloughs and other areas subject to tidal action through any connection
with the Pacific Ocean, excluding nonestuarine rivers, streams, tributaries,
creeks and flood control and drainage channels.
   STREAM. A natural watercourse identified as a stream on a map adopted
pursuant to a certified local coastal program, or as designated by a solid line
or a ______... symbol on the USGS 7.5 minute quadrangle series map. The BANK OF
THE STREAM shall be defined as the watershed and relatively permanent elevation
or acclivity at the outer line of the stream channel which separates the bed
from the adjacent upland, whether valley or hill, and serves to confine the
water within the bed and to preserve the course of the STREAM. In areas where
the STREAM has no discernible bank, the boundary shall be measured from the
line closest to the STREAM where riparian vegetation is permanently
established. Channelized streams not having significant habitat value should
not be considered.
   STRUCTURE. Includes, but is not limited to, any building, road, pipe, flume,
conduit, siphon, aqueduct, telephone line and electrical power transmission and
distribution line.
   SUBMERGED LANDS. Lands which lie below the line of mean low tide.
   TIDELANDS. Lands which are located between the line of mean high tide and
mean low tide.
   WETLAND. Lands within the coastal zone which may be covered periodically or
permanently with shallow water, including saltwater marshes, freshwater
marshes, open or closed brackish water marshes, swamps, mud flats and fens.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-116.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-116.2 COASTAL ZONE BOUNDARIES AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Boundaries of coastal zone.
      (1)   The boundaries of the coastal zone are as shown on the official
zoning map. The areas contained within the coastal zone include the South
Laguna LCP and the Aliso Remainder LCP.
      (2)   Where uncertainty exists as to the exact location of the coastal
zone boundary, the following rules shall apply:
         (a)   When a portion of a building site lies or appears to lie
partially within the coastal zone, the entire building site shall be considered
to be within the coastal zone; and
         (b)   When a portion of a street or highway lies partially within the
coastal zone, the entire width of said street or highway portion shall be
considered to be within the coastal zone.
   (B)   Permit required. Except for exempted projects specified in §
9-1-116.3, no tentative tract or parcel map, building permit, grading permit,
encroachment permit or other development entitlement shall be issued for land
within the coastal zone, unless a coastal development permit or amended permit
is first approved pursuant to this §
9-1-116.
   (C)   Combined applications. It is the intent of the coastal zone
regulations to minimize the number of times a development project will be
required to secure a coastal development permit. Whenever a proposed
development project includes more than one development, as defined in §
9-1-116.1, it is intended that, where feasible, the developments be integrated
into one development project and that the coastal development permit
application be processed at the most appropriate stage of the project. Any such
coastal development permit application shall include such information and
details as necessary to permit an appropriate decision to be made for all
stages or phases of the development project.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-116.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-116.3 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Development projects listed in this section are exempt from the
requirement for having an approved coastal development permit from the city. A
current record of all categorically exempted developments shall be available
for Public and Coastal Commission review and shall include the following
information for each: name of applicant, location of the project and a brief
description of the project.
   (B)   Exempt projects include the following:
      (1)   Development projects included in any categorical exclusion list
adopted pursuant to the certified local coastal program and to California
Public Resources Code, § 30610(e);
      (2)   Improvements to an existing structure, except the following, which
are not exempt:
         (a)   Improvements to any structure located on a beach or wetland, or
seaward of the mean high tide line, or where the dwelling or proposed
improvement would encroach within 50 feet of the edge of a coastal bluff;
         (b)   Improvements on any structure located between the sea and the
first public road paralleling the sea or within 300 feet of the inland extent
of a beach or of the mean high tide line of the sea where there is no beach,
whichever is the greater distance, or within significant scenic resources areas
as designated by the certified local coastal program or the Coastal Commission
when such improvements would constitute or result in any of the following:
            1.   An increase of 10% or more of the internal floor area of the
existing structures on the building site;
            2.   An increase in the floor area in any amount when the structure
has previously been improved in compliance with these exemptions;
            3.   The construction of an additional story or a loft; and
            4.   The construction, placement or establishment of any detached
structure.
         (c)   Any significant alteration of land form, or removal or placement
of vegetation, on a beach, wetland or sand dune, within 100 feet (50 feet for
single-family dwellings) of the edge of a coastal bluff, or in an area of
natural vegetation designated by the Coastal Commission as significant natural
habitat;
         (d)   Expansion or construction of a water well or septic system;
         (e)   Improvements in an area which the Coastal Commission has
determined to have a critically short water supply that must be maintained for
the protection of coastal resources or public recreational use, when such
improvement would be a major water user not essential to residential use,
including, but not limited to, swimming pools and landscape irrigation systems;
         (f)   Any improvement when the coastal development permit issued for
the original structure indicated that future additions would require a coastal
development permit;
         (g)   Improvements to any structure or change in occupancy which would
result in an increase in the intensity of the uses on the building site;
         (h)   Improvements pursuant to a conversion of existing structures
from a multiple-unit rental use or visitor-serving commercial use to a
condominium, stock cooperative or timeshare project; and
         (i)   Public works facility.
      (3)   Maintenance dredging of existing navigation channels or moving
dredged material from such channels to a disposal area outside the coastal
zone, pursuant to a permit from the United States Army Corps of Engineers;
      (4)   Repair or maintenance activities that do not result in an addition
to, or enlargement or expansion of, the object of such repair or maintenance
activities; except the following, which are not exempt:
         (a)   Repair or maintenance of a seawall revetment, bluff retaining
wall, breakwater, groin, culvert, outfall or similar shoreline work which
involves substantial alteration of the foundation, including pilings and other
surface and subsurface structures;
         (b)   The placement, whether temporary or permanent, of riprap, or
artificial berms of sand, or any other form of solid material, on a beach or in
coastal waters, streams, wetlands or estuaries, or on shoreline protective
works;
         (c)   The replacement of 20% or more of the materials of an existing
structure with materials of a different kind;
         (d)   The presence, whether temporary or permanent, of mechanized
construction equipment or construction materials on any sand area or bluff or
within 20 feet of coastal waters or streams;
         (e)   Any method of routine maintenance dredging that involves the
dredging of 100,000 cubic yards or more within a 12-month period; or the
placement of dredged spoils of any quantity on any sand area within 50 feet of
the edge of a coastal bluff or environmentally sensitive habitat area, or
within 20 feet of coastal waters or streams; or the removal, sale or disposal
of dredged spoils of any quantity that would be suitable for beach nourishment
in an area the Coastal Commission has declared by resolution to have a
critically short sand supply that must be maintained for protection of
structures, coastal access or public recreational use; and
         (f)   Any repair or maintenance to facilities or structures or work
located in any sand area within 50 feet of the edge of a coastal bluff or
environmentally sensitive habitat area, or within 20 feet of any coastal waters
or streams, that includes:
            1.   The placement or removal, whether temporary or permanent, of
riprap, rocks, sand or other beach materials or any other forms of solid
materials; and
            2.   The presence, whether temporary or permanent, of mechanized
equipment or construction materials.
      (5)   The installation, testing and placement in service or the
replacement of any necessary utility connection between an existing service
facility and any development approved within the coastal zone;
      (6)   The replacement of any structure, other than a public works
facility, destroyed by natural disaster; provided such replacement structure
conforms to applicable current zoning regulations; is designed and intended for
the same use as the destroyed structure; does not exceed the floor area, height
or bulk of the destroyed structure by more than 10%; and is sited in the same
location on the same building site as the destroyed structure;
      (7)   Development projects on tidelands, on submerged lands or on public
trust lands, whether filled or unfilled, when such projects are permitted
pursuant to a coastal development permit issued by the Coastal Commission;
      (8)   Projects normally requiring a coastal development permit but which
are undertaken by a public agency, public utility or person performing a public
service as emergency measures to protect life and property from imminent danger
or to restore, repair or maintain public works, utilities and services during
and immediately following a natural disaster or serious accident; provided the
Director of Community Development and the Executive Director of the Coastal
Commission are notified within three days after the disaster or discovery of
the danger regarding the type and location of the emergency measures to be
performed. This exemption does not apply to the erection, construction or
placement of any structure with an estimated cost or market value in excess of
$25,000.00 in a permanent location; and
      (9)   Ongoing routine repair and maintenance activities of local
governments, state agencies and public utilities.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-116.3) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-116.4 COASTAL DEVELOPMENT PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General procedures. Each coastal development permit application shall
be processed in compliance with the requirements for use permits per §
9-1-114.2, unless otherwise stated in this section. The decision-making
authority for coastal development permits shall be the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Application requirements. Each application for a coastal development
permit shall be filed in the form and number prescribed by the Director and
shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Payment of a fee set by resolution of the City Council;
      (2)   A location map showing the area to be developed in relation to
nearby lots, streets, highways and major natural features, such as the ocean,
beaches, wetlands and other major landforms;
      (3)   A plan, drawn to scale, in sufficient detail to indicate compliance
with the certified local coastal program; and
      (4)   Any additional information determined by the Director to be
necessary for evaluation of the proposed development.
   (C)   Referral of application.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Director to:
         (a)   Forward applications for comment to other reviewing officials
and/or agencies as may be required by local coastal program policies; and
         (b)   Forward each application for a coastal development permit,
together with their recommendation thereon, to the decision-making authority
for its action.
      (2)   Any person may submit written comments on an application for a
coastal development permit, or on a coastal development permit appeal, at any
time prior to the close of the applicable public hearing. Written comments
shall be submitted to the Director, who shall forward them to the decision-
making authority or to the Board of Appeals.
   (D)   Public notice.
      (1)   Required. A notice shall be mailed or delivered by the Director at
least ten calendar days before the public hearing on coastal development permit
applications to the following persons and agencies:
         (a)   The applicant;
         (b)   All persons owning property within 300 feet from the exterior
boundaries of the premises to which the application pertains;
         (c)   All persons residing on a building site within 100 feet from the
exterior boundaries of the premises to which the application pertains;
         (d)   The Coastal Commission;
         (e)   Any board or committee as provided in the certified local
coastal program;
         (f)   Public agencies which, in the judgment of the Director, may have
an interest in the project; and
         (g)   All persons who have submitted a written request for public
notice of all coastal development permit applications or who have submitted a
written request for public notice for any development of the subject property,
and who have submitted self-addressed, stamped envelopes.
      (2)   Contents. Contents of the notice shall be as follows:
         (a)   A statement that the development is within the coastal zone;
         (b)   The date of filing of the application and the name of the
applicant;
         (c)   The number assigned to the application;
         (d)   A brief description of the development and its proposed
location;
         (e)   The date, time and place at which the application will be heard
by the local decision-making authority;
         (f)   A brief description of the general procedure of the conduct of
the hearing and possible actions;
         (g)   The system for city and Coastal Commission appeals; and
         (h)   The fee for filing appeals.
      (3)   Notice of continued public hearing. If a hearing on a coastal
development permit is continued to a time which has not been stated in the
initial notice or stated at the public hearing, notice of the continued hearing
shall be provided in the same manner and within the same time limits as
required in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above.
   (E)   Findings. A coastal development permit application may be approved
only after the decision-making authority has made the findings required in §
9-1-114.2 and the following findings.
      (1)   Compliance with local coastal program. The finding shall be made
that the development project proposed by the application conforms with the
certified local coastal program.
      (2)   Variances to comply with land use plan. In addition to the findings
required for a variance by §
9-1-114.3, the following finding shall also be made: “Approval of the
application will result in no modification to the requirements of the certified
land use plan”.
   (F)   Notice of decision. On or before the seventh calendar day following
the date of decision, notice of the decision, including findings for approval
and conditions, if any, and the procedures for appeal of the decision, shall be
mailed to the following persons:
      (1)   The applicant;
      (2)   All persons who have submitted a written request for notification
of action on this specific permit and who have submitted self-addressed,
stamped envelopes;
      (3)   The Coastal Commission; and
      (4)   Any board or committee as provided by the certified local coastal
program.
   (G)   Appeals. A decision regarding any coastal development permit
application may be appealed in compliance with the provisions of §
9-1-112.2, subject to the following modifications and additional provisions.
      (1)   Appealable decisions. A decision by the City Council regarding an
application for a coastal development permit for an appealable development may
be appealed to the Coastal Commission in compliance with the Coastal Commission
appeal procedures.
      (2)   Notice of final appeal action. Within seven calendar days following
the date of decision on an appeal, the Director or the City Clerk, as
appropriate, shall forward, by first class mail, a copy of the written decision
to the appellant, the applicant, any board or committee as provided in the
certified local coastal program and the Coastal Commission, and shall make such
decision available at cost to any other person desiring a copy of such
decision.
      (3)   Appeal procedures.
         (a)   An appeal of a decision by the City Council may be filed by the
applicant, by an aggrieved person or by any two members of the Coastal
Commission.
         (b)   An appeal of a decision by the City Council shall be filed
within 21 calendar days from the date of the Council’s decision.
         (c)   Any appealable development may be appealed directly to the
Coastal Commission without exhausting the appeal procedures specified by this
section and §
9-1-112.2; provided such appeal complies with the adopted regulations of the
Coastal Commission.
      (4)   Appealable developments. A decision by the City Council regarding a
coastal development permit application for any of the following projects may be
appealed to the Coastal Commission:
         (a)   Development projects approved by the city located within any
appealable area, as follows:
            1.   All area between the sea and the first public road paralleling
the sea, or within 300 feet of the inland extent of any beach or the mean high
tide line of the sea where there is no beach, whichever is the greater
distance; and
            2.   All area within 100 feet of any wetland, estuary or stream,
and all area within 300 feet, both seaward and landward, of the top of the
seaward face of any coastal bluff.
         (b)   Any development project approved by the city that is not
designated as the principal permitted use as defined in the zoning code or
official zoning map.
         (c)   Any development project which constitutes a major public works
project or a major energy facility.
   (H)   Effective date of decision. The city’s final decision on an
application for an appealable development shall become effective after the ten-
working-day appeal period to the Coastal Commission has expired or after the
twenty-first calendar day following the final local action unless any of the
following occur:
      (1)   An appeal is filed pursuant to division (G) above;
      (2)   The notice official city action does not meet the requirements of
division (F) above; or
      (3)   The notice of final city action is not received in the Coastal
Commission office and distributed to interested parties in time to allow for
the ten-working-day appeal period within the 21 days after the local decision.
   (I)   Final determination. The city’s decision on an application shall be
deemed final when the decision on the application has been made and all
required findings have been made in compliance with division (E) above,
including specific factual findings supporting the conclusions that the
proposed development is or is not in conformity with the certified local
coastal program, and, where applicable, with the public access and recreation
policies of Chapter 3 of the Coastal Act, being California Coastal Act
(California Public Resources Code, §§ 30200 et seq.), and when all legal rights
of appeal have been exhausted as defined in division (G) above.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-116.4) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-116.5 ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   The purpose of this section is to provide regulations and procedures which
will ensure compliance with the California Coastal Act, being California
Coastal Act (California Public Resources Code, §§ 30000 et seq.), and with the
requirements of all certified local coastal programs and the provisions of this
district.
   (A)   Violations. Notwithstanding the provisions of Subchapter 2, Article
13, the following provisions are applicable within the coastal zone: a
violation of a certified local coastal program may be prosecuted by the city in
the name of the people of the state, or may be redressed by civil action. Any
person who violates any provision of the local coastal program shall be subject
to a civil fine of not to exceed $10,000.00. In addition to any other
penalties, any person who intentionally and knowingly performs any development
in violation of the local coastal program shall be subject to a civil fine of
not less than $50.00 and not more than $5,000.00 per day for each day in which
such violation occurs.
   (B)   Revocation of permit.
      (1)   Failure of any person to abide by and faithfully comply with any
and all conditions that may be attached to the approval of a permit issued
pursuant to the provisions pertaining to this district shall constitute grounds
for the revocation of the permit by the City Council.
      (2)   The failure of any coastal development permit application to be
processed in compliance with the requirements and procedures pertaining to this
district shall constitute grounds for revocation by the City Council for any
permit approved resultant to such noncompliance.
   (C)   Judicial review. Any violation of this section within the coastal
development district shall also constitute a violation of California Public
Resources Code, §§ 30000 et seq., and shall be subject to the remedies, fines
and penalties provided in California Public Resources Code, §§ 30800 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-116.5) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-117 OTHER DISCRETIONARY ACTIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. All references to this §
9-1-117 shall include §§
9-1-117.1 through
9-1-117.6. The provisions of this section shall apply to the processing of
applications for discretionary actions other than discretionary permits. These
applications include: zone changes and prezoning, zoning code text amendments,
general plan amendments, specific plans, subdivisions and development
agreements.
   (B)   Continuances and tabling. Discretionary applications described in this
section may be continued or tabled; provided such actions are in compliance
with requirements of state law regarding processing time limits.
      (1)   Continuance. Review of discretionary applications may be continued
from time to time to a specified date. If a public hearing is required for the
application, further testimony may be heard and further evidence may be
presented at the specified date without the holding of a new public hearing.
      (2)   Tabling. Discretionary applications may be tabled without setting a
specified date for further review. A tabled application may later be
rescheduled for the purpose of further review and action. If a public hearing
is required for the application, further testimony may be heard and further
evidence may be presented regarding such an application only if a new public
hearing is held in compliance with §
9-1-112.1.
   (C)   Tie votes. If there is a tie vote by the decision-making authority,
such vote shall constitute denial of the discretionary application.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-117) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-117.1 GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. Adoption of or amendment to the city’s general plan,
including changes to the text or any map or diagram in the general plan, are
discretionary actions of the City Council.
   (B)   Applicable state law. It is intended that the provisions of this
section shall be fully consistent and in full compliance with the California
Government Code, §§ 65350 et seq. and that such provisions shall be so
construed.
   (C)   Who may apply. Who may apply:
      (1)   The owner of property in the city or the owner’s agent (with
notarized authorization from the owner) may apply for a general plan amendment
on said owner’s property;
      (2)   The City Council, by majority vote, may initiate consideration of a
new general plan or a general plan amendment;
      (3)   The Planning Commission, by majority vote, may initiate
consideration of a general plan amendment; and
      (4)   The Community Development Director may initiate consideration of a
general plan amendment.
   (D)   Referral of proposed amendments. A proposed new general plan or
general plan amendment shall be referred to the persons and agencies specified
in the California Government Code, § 65352.
   (E)   Frequency of general plan amendments.
      (1)   General plan elements specified as mandatory in the California
Government Code shall be amended no more than four times during each calendar
year. Each such amendment may include more than one change to the general plan.
      (2)   The limitation on frequency of amendments to the general plan set
forth in division (E)(1) above does not apply to residential development
projects with at least 25% of the dwelling units to be occupied by persons or
families of low or moderate income.
   (F)   Review procedures.
      (1)   A new general plan or a general plan amendment shall be approved,
approved with modifications or denied by resolution of the City Council after
receipt of testimony at a public hearing held pursuant to §
9-1-112.1. Approval or approval with modifications shall require an affirmative
vote of a majority of the total membership of the Council.
      (2)   Prior to City Council review, the Planning Commission shall hold a
public hearing, review the proposal and forward a recommendation to the
Council.
      (3)   If the Council contemplates a modification to the proposal not
previously considered by the Planning Commission, the proposed modification
shall be referred to the Commission for report back to Council. A public
hearing shall not be required for such Commission review.
   (G)   Required findings. The following finding shall be made by the City
Council in conjunction with the approval of a general plan amendment.
      (1)   The amendment is internally consistent with the goals, objectives
and policies of the general plan which are not being amended.
      (2)   The proposed amendment will not adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (H)   Hearings and appeals. Public hearings shall be noticed and held in
accordance with §
9-1-112.1. Appeals shall be reviewed in accordance with §
9-1-112.2.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-117.1) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
72, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-117.2 SPECIFIC PLANS.
   (A)   Purpose. A specific plan is a detailed plan covering a selected area
of the city for the purpose of implementation of the general plan. When deemed
by the City Council to be necessary for the orderly implementation of the
city’s general plan and in the public interest, the City Council may adopt a
specific plan by ordinance. Preparation and processing of specific plans shall
be in compliance with the provisions of the California Government Code and this
section.
   (B)   Applicable state law. It is intended that the provisions of this
section shall be fully consistent and in full compliance with the California
Government Code, §§ 65450 et seq., and that such provisions shall be so
construed.
   (C)   Relationship to other regulations. An adopted specific plan may either
supplement or supersede land use regulations applicable to the subject
property, including all previously adopted ordinances, standards and
guidelines, and shall contain such standards deemed to be necessary for the
orderly and systematic implementation of the general plan.
   (D)   Who may apply. A specific plan or specific plan amendment application
may be initiated by the City Council, or in the case of amendment to an
existing specific plan, by a property owner within the specific plan boundaries
or the owner’s authorized agent (with notarized authorization from the owner).
In addition, the Planning Commission, by majority vote, may recommend that the
City Council initiate a specific plan or specific plan amendment application.
   (E)   Review procedures. Specific plans shall be prepared, adopted and
amended in the same manner as the general plan, except that a specific plan
shall be adopted by ordinance.
   (F)   Required findings. The following finding shall be made by the City
Council in conjunction with the approval of a specific plan or specific plan
amendment.
      (1)   The plan or amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives and
policies of the general plan.
      (2)   The proposed amendment will not adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (G)   Hearings and appeals. Public hearings shall be noticed and held in
accordance with §
9-1-112.1. Appeals shall be reviewed in accordance with §
9-1-112.2.
   (H)   Designation on zoning map. Upon adoption of a specific plan, the
Director shall cause the subject property to be shown on the official zoning
map not with individual zoning districts but with the letters “SP” followed by
the name of the adopted specific plan. Thereafter, all land use, development
and improvements shall conform to the provisions of the adopted specific plan.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-117.2) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
73, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-117.3 ZONE CHANGES AND PREZONING.
   (A)   Purpose. A zone change is a discretionary action by the City Council
to change the zone designation of a property or properties on the official
zoning map. A prezoning is the zoning of property outside the city’s boundaries
in anticipation of annexation into the city. For purposes of this code,
“prezoning” is included within the term “zone change”.
   (B)   Applicable state law. It is intended that the provisions of this
section shall be fully consistent and in full compliance with of the California
Government Code, §§ 65853 et seq., and that such provisions shall be so
construed.
   (C)   Who may apply. Who may apply:
      (1)   Any owner of property in the city or the owner’s agent (with
notarized authorization from the owner) may apply for a zone change on said
owner’s property;
      (2)   The City Council, by majority vote, may initiate consideration of a
zone change;
      (3)   The Planning Commission, by majority vote, may initiate
consideration of a zone change; and
      (4)   The Community Development Director may initiate consideration of a
zone change.
   (D)   Review procedures.
      (1)   Zone changes shall be approved, approved with modifications or
denied by ordinance of the City Council after receipt of testimony at a public
hearing held pursuant to §
9-1-112.1.
      (2)   Prior to City Council review, the Planning Commission shall hold a
public hearing, review the application and forward a recommendation to the
Council.
      (3)   If the Council contemplates a modification to the application not
previously considered by the Planning Commission, the proposed modification
shall be referred to the Planning Commission for report back to Council. A
public hearing shall not be required for such Planning Commission review.
   (E)   Required finding. The following finding shall be made by the City
Council in conjunction with the approval of a zone change.
      (1)   The zone change is consistent with the goals, objectives and
policies of the general plan.
      (2)   The proposed amendment will not adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (F)   Hearings and appeals. Public hearings shall be noticed and held in
accordance with §
9-1-112.1. Appeals shall be reviewed in accordance with §
9-1-112.2.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-117.3) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
74, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-117.4 ZONING CODE AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. A zoning code amendment is a discretionary action by the City
Council to change the text and/or graphics within this zoning code.
   (B)   Applicable state law. It is intended that the provisions of this
section shall be fully consistent and in full compliance with the California
Government Code, §§ 65853 et seq., and that such provisions shall be so
construed.
   (C)   Who may apply. Who may apply:
      (1)   Any resident of or owner of property in the city or the owner’s
agent (with notarized authorization from the owner) may request that the City
Council initiate consideration of a code amendment;
      (2)   The City Council, by majority vote, may initiate consideration of a
code amendment;
      (3)   The Planning Commission, by majority vote, may recommend that the
City Council initiate consideration of a code amendment; and
      (4)   The Community Development Director may recommend that the City
Council initiate consideration of a code amendment.
   (D)   Review procedures and findings. Code amendments shall be reviewed
under the same procedures and required findings as zone changes, per §
9-1-117.3.
   (E)   Hearings and appeals. Public hearings shall be noticed and held in
accordance with §
9-1-112.1. Appeals shall be reviewed in accordance with §
9-1-112.2.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-117.4) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-117.5 SUBDIVISIONS.
   Tract maps, parcel maps and related subdivision applications shall be
processed in accordance with the city’s subdivision code (Subchapter 3 of this
chapter) and Manual.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-117.5) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-117.6 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   Development agreements shall be prepared, reviewed, adopted and maintained
in accordance with the California Government Code, § 65864.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-117.6) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-118 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
means all actions and procedures required of the city and of applicants by
CEQA, California Public Resources Code, §§ 21000 et seq., the CEQA Guidelines
(California Code of Regulations, Title 14, §§ 15000 et seq.) and the city’s
environmental review procedures.
   (B)   Procedures. All discretionary applications shall be evaluated in
compliance with CEQA, the CEQA guidelines and the city’s environmental review
procedures to determine the proposal’s potential impacts.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-118) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
75, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 9-1-119 FEES.
   (A)   Filing fees. A filing fee, or filing fee deposit, to defray the cost
of processing and notification for each application for a discretionary permit
or other discretionary action shall be paid by applicant, the property owner or
the owner’s authorized agent at the time the application is accepted. Such fees
shall be pursuant to the fee schedule currently in effect as adopted by
resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Combined projects. When different types of permits are combined per §
9-1-110, the applicable fee shall be deposited in accordance with the current
fee schedule.
   (C)   Appeal fees. In order to defray the cost of processing and
notification, a filing fee for each appeal shall be paid by the appellant at
the time the appeal application is accepted, and a fee deposit shall be
submitted by the project proponent. Such fees shall be pursuant to the current
fee schedule.
   (D)   Waiver of fees. Filing fees may be waived upon a finding of good cause
by the City Council or by the Director.
   (E)   Refund of fees. The City Council may refund a filing fee in whole upon
a determination that the application was erroneously required or filed. A pro
rata fee, based on the cost of processing the application, may be refunded if
the application is withdrawn prior to a decision thereon.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-119) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2021-210, §
76, passed 8-3-2021)
** ARTICLE 12. NONCONFORMING USES, LOTS AND STRUCTURES **
§ 9-1-120 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to promote the public health, safety and
welfare by regulating land uses, lots and structures which were lawfully
established but which do not conform to the provisions of this zoning code.
This article is further intended to regulate the expansion of nonconforming
uses and structures and to establish criteria under which the nonconforming
uses and structures may be continued.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-120) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-121 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article and this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   INTENSITY. The level of development or activity associated with a land use,
as measured by one or more of the following:
      (1)   The amount of parking required for the use per Subchapter 2,
Article 6;
      (2)   The operational characteristics of the use, such as hours of
operation, the inclusion of dancing or live entertainment as part of the use or
similar characteristics;
      (3)   The floor area occupied by the use; and
      (4)   The percentage of the building site occupied by the use or by the
structure containing the use.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot or parcel which was lawful and in conformance with
applicable zoning regulations when established but which, due to subsequent
ordinance changes, does not conform to the current lot standards applicable to
the zoning district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure which was lawful and in conformance
with applicable zoning regulations when constructed but which, due to
subsequent ordinance changes, does not conform to the current development
standards applicable to the zoning district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A land use which was lawful and in conformance with
applicable zoning regulations when established but which, due to subsequent
ordinance changes, is not currently permitted in the zoning district in which
it is located or is permitted only upon the approval of a use permit and no use
permit has been approved.
   NONCONFORMITY. A land use, lot or structure which was lawful when
established or constructed but, due to subsequent ordinance changes, is not in
conformance with this zoning code. The term nonconformity does not include
uses, lots or structures which were not lawful when established or constructed.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-121) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-122 CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Applicability. Nonconforming uses may be continued subject to the
restrictions of this section.
   (B)   Discontinued nonconforming uses. If the nonconforming use is
discontinued for a period of one year, it shall not be reestablished and any
new use of the premises shall conform to the applicable district regulations of
this code.
   (C)   Intensification of nonconforming uses. A nonconforming use may be
increased in intensity provided the intensification of the use is consistent
with the development standards of the applicable zoning district and if a site
development permit is approved. If a nonconforming use also contains a
nonconforming structure, alterations to that structure are regulated by §
9-1-124.
   (D)   Alteration of structures containing nonconforming uses. A structure
containing a nonconforming use shall not be altered, except in accordance with
the provisions of §
9-1-124.
   (E)   Restoration of nonconforming uses. Restoration of nonconforming uses
occupying structures which are damaged, destroyed or demolished shall be
regulated by §
9-1-125.
   (F)   Change in ownership. Changes in ownership, tenancy, proprietorship or
management of a nonconforming use shall not affect its nonconforming status
provided that the use or the intensity of use does not change.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-122) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-123 CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   Legally established nonconforming lots may be developed and used in
accordance with this code; provided all code requirements other than those
relating to the lot’s conformity are met.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-123) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-124 CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Applicability. Nonconforming structures may be continued and
maintained subject to the restrictions of this section.
   (B)   Maintenance and repairs. Ordinary maintenance and repairs may be made
to all nonconforming structures, such as painting, patching, window repair, re-
roofing, re-siding, re-plastering and replacement of incidental nonstructural
elements.
   (C)   Restoration of nonconforming structures. Restoration of nonconforming
structures which are damaged, destroyed or demolished shall be regulated by §
9-1-125.
   (D)   Alterations to nonconforming portions of structures. Interior or
exterior structural alterations shall not be made to the nonconforming portion
of a structure, unless the following requirements are met and discretionary
approvals granted.
      (1)   Requirements. The structure may be modified or enlarged
horizontally equal to the limits of the existing nonconformity; provided such
increase does not result in an increase in height of any nonconformity nor an
increase in any existing setback encroachment. (For example, if a portion of a
building encroaches two feet into a required setback, that portion may be
expanded; provided it does not result in an encroachment greater than the
existing two feet nor an increase in the height of the nonconforming portion.)
      (2)   Discretionary approvals. Discretionary approval shall be required
for alterations to the nonconforming portions of structures as follows.
         (a)   Small residential alterations. Approval of a minor adjustment is
required for alteration or enlargement of the nonconforming portion of
residential structures when the current construction valuation of the
alterations is less than 50% of the current construction valuation of the
entire structure.
         (b)   Nonresidential and large residential alterations. Approval of a
site development permit by the Planning Commission is required for alteration
or enlargement of the nonconforming portion of:
            1.   Any nonresidential structure; and
            2.   Any residential structure when the current construction
valuation of the alterations is 50% or more of the current construction
valuation of the entire structure.
         (c)   Required findings. In addition to the standard required
findings, the following findings shall be made by the decision-making authority
in conjunction with the discretionary approvals described in divisions (D)(2)
(a) and (D)(2)(b) above.
            1.   Enlargement of the nonconforming condition will provide for
reasonable use of the property and preserve a substantial property right.
            2.   Enlargement of the nonconforming condition is consistent with
the buildings and architecture of the surrounding neighborhood.
            3.   The enlargement is necessary to provide continuity of usable
space in the structure.
            4.   The enlargement is physically attached to or architecturally
compatible with the existing nonconformity.
   (E)   Alterations to conforming portions of structures. Except for a
residential garage, the conforming portion of a structure that contains a
nonconformity may be modified or added to if such alteration is consistent with
applicable development standards and does not increase the degree of the
existing nonconformity nor create a new nonconformity, except as allowed in
division (D) above.
   (F)   Residential garages. Residential garages may be modified or enlarged,
for garage purposes only, to the extent equal to the limits of an existing
nonconformity, consistent with the provisions of this section.
   (G)   When variance required. Any structural alteration which increases the
extent of a nonconformity, other than provided for in this section, and any
structural alteration which creates a new nonconformity shall require approval
of a variance in accordance with §
9-1-114.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-124) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-125 DESTRUCTION AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Safety of structures. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the strengthening or restoration to a safe condition of any structure
declared to be unsafe by an officer of the city charged with protecting the
public safety upon order of such officer.
   (B)   Damage to nonconforming structures. The following provisions shall
govern the restoration of nonconforming structures damaged or destroyed by
fire, explosion, flood, earthquake, landslide or similar causes other than
voluntary demolition by the owner.
      (1)   A nonconforming structure which is damaged or destroyed to less
than 50% of the current construction valuation of the entire structure may be
restored to the limits of the pre-existing nonconformity without discretionary
approval.
      (2)   A nonconforming structure which is damaged or destroyed to 50% or
more of the current construction valuation of the entire structure shall
conform to applicable development standards, except that such structures may be
restored to the limits of the pre-existing nonconformity if a minor site
development permit is approved with the following findings in addition to the
findings required for approval of all site development permits per §
9-1-114.
         (a)   Replacement of the nonconforming structure is necessary to
maintain reasonable use of the property and preserve a substantial property
right.
         (b)   Replacement of the nonconforming condition is necessary to
preserve consistency among the buildings and architecture of the surrounding
neighborhood.
   (C)   Voluntary demolition of nonconforming structures. The following
provisions shall govern the restoration of nonconforming structures voluntarily
demolished by the owner.
      (1)   A nonconforming structure which is demolished to less than 50% of
the current construction valuation of the entire structure may be restored to
the limits of the pre-existing nonconformity if a minor site development permit
is approved per §
9-1-114.
      (2)   A nonconforming structure which is demolished to 50% or more of the
current construction valuation of the entire structure shall conform to
applicable development standards, except that such structures may be restored
to the limits of the pre-existing nonconformity if the Planning Commission
approves a site development permit with the following findings in addition to
the findings required for approval of all site development permits per §
9-1-114.
         (a)   Replacement of the nonconforming structure is necessary to
maintain reasonable use of the property and preserve a substantial property
right.
         (b)   Replacement of the nonconforming condition is necessary to
preserve consistency among the buildings and architecture of the surrounding
neighborhood.
   (D)   Damage to structures containing nonconforming uses. A nonconforming
use occupying a structure which is damaged or destroyed by fire, explosion,
flood, earthquake, landslide or similar causes other than voluntary demolition
by the owner may be reestablished provided:
      (1)   Restoration of the structure is consistent with the provisions of §
9-1-124; and
      (2)   Application for a building permit is submitted within one year of
the damage or destruction and construction is commenced and completed according
to the city’s building and safety codes and regulations.
   (E)   Voluntary demolition of structures containing nonconforming uses. If a
structure containing a nonconforming use is voluntarily demolished by the owner
of the structure, the nonconforming use shall not be restored unless a site
development permit is approved. In addition to the standard required findings,
the following findings shall be made by the decision-making authority in
conjunction with the approval of such a site development permit.
      (1)   The nonconforming use is compatible with nearby land uses in the
vicinity.
      (2)   The restored use and structure will substantially improve the
physical appearance of the area in which they are located.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-125) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-126 PLANS PREVIOUSLY APPROVED.
   Uses, lots or structures approved prior to the effective date of this zoning
code which are nonconforming under this code shall be processed in accordance
with §
9-1-12.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-126) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-127 ILLEGAL USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed so as to allow for the
continuation of illegal land uses or structures, i.e., uses or structures which
did not comply with the zoning ordinance(s) in effect when they were
established. Such illegal uses or structures shall be subject to the
enforcement provisions of Subchapter 2, Article 13 and shall be removed
immediately.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-127) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-128 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   The abatement, continuation and restoration of nonconforming signs shall be
regulated by Subchapter 2, Article 7.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-128) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-129 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 13. CODE ENFORCEMENT **
§ 9-1-130 PURPOSE.
   This article shall be known as the “zoning code enforcement provisions”. The
purpose of these provisions is to ensure compliance with this zoning code. They
shall apply to the enforcement of this zoning code but shall not be deemed to
exclude other remedial measures.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-130) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-131 ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Community Development Director. The duty of the Community Development
Director shall designate the appropriate personnel to enforce the provisions of
this zoning code.
   (B)   Other city officers. All other officials, employees, agencies and
departments of the city vested with the authority to issue permits,
certificates or licenses shall comply with this zoning code and shall issue no
permits, certificates or licenses in conflict with this zoning code. The
issuing of a permit which is in conflict with applicable provisions of this
zoning code shall not constitute a waiver of such provisions.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-131) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-132 INSPECTION TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Whenever the Director suspects a violation of any provision of this
zoning code, determines it necessary to investigate either an application for
granting, extension or modification, or an action to suspend or revoke a
discretionary permit, or determines it necessary to investigate an application
for a discretionary permit or other approval, the Director or the Director’s
designated agents may, for the purpose of investigation:
      (1)   Enter onto any land in accordance with the California Government
Code, § 65105; provided that such entry does not interfere with the use of the
land by those persons lawfully entitled to the possession thereof; or
      (2)   Enter any building or structure after permission from the owner or
occupant; provided the entry is in a lawful manner. If the owner or occupant
refuses to grant such permission, the Director may obtain a search warrant for
entrance onto the premises.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
9-1-132, entry onto any real property to inspect a violation of any provision
of this zoning code, except in cases involving an imminent hazard, shall be
pursuant to a warrant or other order issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-132) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-133 VIOLATION ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES.
   The city has sole discretion in the use of any one or more of the following
code enforcement remedies. These methods are not intended to be mutually
exclusive and do not prevent the use of concurrent or consecutive methods to
achieve compliance with this zoning code. Each day, or part thereof, that a
violation of this zoning code continues constitutes a separate offense and is
subject to the penalties set forth under this code.
   (A)   Violations to constitute misdemeanor.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary,
any person who violates any provision of the zoning code, or who fails to
comply with any obligation or requirement of the zoning code, is guilty of a
misdemeanor offense punishable in accordance with state law. A criminal
prosecution and/or civil litigation may be initiated.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the City Attorney from
prosecuting a violation of the zoning code as an infraction, at their
discretion, as set forth in this code. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent
the City Attorney from bringing a civil action, at their discretion, for
violations of the provisions of the zoning code, as set forth in this code.
Nothing in this chapter shall prevent any City Enforcement Officer from issuing
administrative citations for violation of the provisions of the zoning code, as
set forth in this code.
   (B)   Public nuisance and property lien.
      (1)   Any use or condition caused, allowed or permitted to exist, in
violation of any provision of this zoning code shall be, and is hereby declared
to be, a public nuisance and may be summarily abated by the city pursuant to
Title 11, Chapter 14 or any other remedy available by law. In accordance with
this chapter, the city may also collect any fee, cost or charge incurred in the
abatement of such nuisance by making the amount of any unpaid fee, cost or
charge a lien against the property that is the subject of the enforcement
activity.
      (2)   Each person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day, or part thereof, during which a violation of this chapter, or of any
law or regulation referenced herein, is allowed, committed, continued,
maintained or permitted by such person, and shall be punishable accordingly.
   (C)   Threats to health or safety. The abatement of threats to public health
or safety other than public nuisances may also be made at the expense of the
owner of the property on which the nuisance is located. If the city abates the
threat, the costs of such abatement shall be charged to the owner of the
premises involved. The Director may apply to the City Council to cause costs
for such work to be paid and levied as a special assessment against the
property and collected in the manner provided for special assessments.
   (D)   Administrative citation. Any responsible person violating, causing a
violation or maintaining a violation of any provision of this zoning code may
be issued an administrative citation assessing a civil fine as provided in §
1-3-13.
   (E)   Injunction as additional remedy. Any violation of this zoning code
shall be and is hereby declared to be contrary to the public interest and
shall, at the discretion of the city, create a cause of action for injunctive
relief and civil penalties.
   (F)   Injunction as additional remedy. Any violation of this zoning code
shall be and is hereby declared to be contrary to the public interest and
shall, at the discretion of the city, create a cause of action for injunctive
relief and civil penalties.
   (G)   Permit revocation. Failure to abide by and faithfully comply with any
and all conditions that may be attached to the granting of any discretionary
permit, pursuant to the provisions of this zoning code, shall constitute
grounds for the revocation of the permit in accordance with §
9-1-113.9.
   (H)   Failure to pay fees or obtain permit. Failure to pay fees and obtain
applicable permits shall be deemed a violation of this zoning code. Violation
shall result in the assessment of double permit fees prior to permit issuance.
Payment of a double fee shall not relieve any person from fully complying with
the requirements of this zoning code or from any other of the penalties
prescribed in this zoning code.
   (I)   Liability for expenses. In addition to the punishment provided by law,
a violator is liable for such costs, expenses and disbursements paid or
incurred by the city or any of its contractors in correction, abatement and
prosecution of the violation. Reinspection fees to ascertain compliance with
previously noticed or cited violations shall be charged against the owner of
the deemed approved activity. The inspection official shall give the owner or
other responsible party of such affected premises a written notice showing the
itemized cost of such chargeable service and requesting payment thereof. Should
the violator fail to pay the fees due and owing in the required time, the
charges shall be placed as a lien against the property pursuant to applicable
law.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-133) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2011-163, § 3,
passed 5-3-2011; Ord. 2016-184, § 2, passed 10-4-2016)
§§ 9-1-134—9-1-139 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 14. DEFINITIONS **
§ 9-1-140 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   References. All references to this article shall also include the
definitions set forth in individual articles of this code pertaining to matters
specific to that article.
   (B)   Purpose. This article shall be known as the zoning code definitions.
The purpose of these provisions is to promote consistency and precision in the
interpretation of this code. The meaning and construction of words and phrases
as set forth shall apply throughout this code, except where the context of such
words or phrases clearly indicates a different meaning or construction.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-140) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-141 USE OF TERMS.
   (A)   Rules for construction of language. The following general rules of
construction shall apply to the textual provisions of this code.
      (1)   The specific shall supersede the general.
      (2)   The word “shall” is mandatory. The word “may” is discretionary. The
word “should” identifies a regulation or design guideline which must be
followed in the absence of compelling opposing considerations identified by the
city decision-making authority.
      (3)   In the case of any difference of meanings or implication between
the text regarding a provision of the code and any title, heading, caption or
illustration, the text shall control.
      (4)   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, words used in the
present tense include the future, words used in the singular include the plural
and words used in the plural include the singular.
      (5)   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, certain
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows.
         (a)   “And” indicates that all connected items or provisions shall
apply.
         (b)   “Or” indicates that the connected items or provisions may apply
singly or in any combination.
         (c)   “Either ... or” indicates that the connected items or provisions
shall apply, but not in combination.
      (6)   Unless otherwise indicated, all public officials, bodies and
agencies to which reference is made are those of the city.
   (B)   Time periods. The use of the term DAYS to describe a specific time
period does not include the day the action was taken but does include all
subsequent days unless the last day falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or a legal
city holiday, in which case the next business day shall be the last day of the
time period.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-141) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 9-1-142 DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. A building or use the development or operation of which has been
ceased or suspended.
   ABUTTING or ADJACENT. Two or more parcels sharing a common boundary at one
or more points.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING or STRUCTURE. A building or structure, the use of which
is subordinate and incidental to the main building or use on the same parcel or
building site. For accessory dwelling units, see definition for ACCESSORY
DWELLING UNIT or JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU). An attached or detached residential dwelling
unit that provides complete independent living facilities for one or more
persons and is located on a lot with a proposed or existing primary residence.
It shall include permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and
sanitation, subject to California Building Code requirements, and shall be
located on the same parcel as the single-family or multi-family dwelling is or
will be situated. An ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT also includes an efficiency unit
and a manufactured home, as defined in the California Health and Safety Code, §
18007.
   ACCESSORY USE. A land use subordinate and incidental to the principal use on
the same parcel.
   ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION. The placing of construction materials in their
permanent position fastened in a permanent manner, except that where a
basement, subterranean room or garage, swimming pool or spa is being excavated,
such excavation shall be deemed to be actual construction, or where demolishing
or removal of an existing building or structure has begun, such demolition or
removal shall be deemed to be actual construction, providing in all cases that
actual construction work be diligently carried on until the completion of the
entire building or structure involved.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE. A place of business for the rendering of service or
general administration, but not including retail sales.
   ADULT BUSINESS or ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS. See §
9-1-54.4.
   ADVERTISING STATUARY or VEHICLES. See sign definitions, §
9-1-79.
   ALLEY. A public or private way permanently reserved as a secondary means of
access to abutting property.
   ALTERATION. Any physical change in the internal or external composition of a
building or other structure.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL or ANIMAL CLINIC. See VETERINARY CLINIC.
   ANTENNA. A device for transmitting or receiving radio, television,
satellite, microwave or any other transmitted signal.
   APARTMENT. A dwelling unit within an apartment building or project, designed
and used for occupancy by one family, typically on a rental basis.
   APARTMENT BUILDING or APARTMENT PROJECT. A building or group of buildings in
a single ownership with three or more dwelling units per building and,
typically, with units occupied on a rental basis.
   AREA, BUILDABLE LOT or SITE. Consistent with the land use element of the
general plan, the net lot or site area less any slope areas with a ratio of 2:
1 or steeper.
   AREA, BUILDABLE PROJECT. The net site area within a development project less
any slope areas with a ratio of 2:1 or steeper.
   AREA, LOT or SITE. The horizontal area within a lot or site expressed in
square feet, acres or other area measurement.
   AREA, NET LOT or SITE. The horizontal area within the boundaries of a lot or
site less perimeter rights-of-way and easements and areas set aside for public
schools, parks and other public uses.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. See MANAGED CARE FACILITY.
   ATTACHED ADU. An ADU that shares at least one common wall with the primary
dwelling.
   ATTACHED STRUCTURES. Two or more structures which are physically connected
with a wall, roof, deck, floor, architectural features or any other connection
that exceeds 30 inches in height above the finished grade and is a minimum 48
inches in width. Also, for the purposes of zoning, structures separated by 30
inches or less shall be considered ATTACHED whether they are joined by any
physical connection or not.
   ATTACHED DWELLING or ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL. See DWELLING, ATTACHED.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR SPECIALTY SHOP. A retail and service place of business
engaged primarily in light repair and sale of goods and services for motor
vehicles, including brake, muffler and tire shops and their accessory uses.
Heavier automobile repair, such as major body and paint work, transmission
repair or engine repair, are not included in this definition.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. See SERVICE STATION OR GAS STATION.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING or AUTOMOBILE DISMANTLING. The storage or taking apart
of damaged or wrecked vehicles or the sale of such vehicles or their parts.
   AWNING. A roof-like cover that is attached to and projects from the wall of
a building for the purpose of decoration and/or providing shielding from the
elements.
   BASEMENT. Any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a
floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a
BASEMENT, unless such floor level qualifies as a first story, as defined in
this article. (See also FIRST STORY.)
   BED AND BREAKFAST or “B&B”. An establishment primarily engaged in providing
temporary lodging (i.e., less than 30 days) for the general public with access
typically provided through a common entrance to guest rooms having no cooking
facilities. Meals may or may not be provided.
   BEDROOM. Any habitable room other than a kitchen, bathroom, hallway, dining
room or living room, containing four walls and provides privacy.
   BERM. A mound or embankment of earth.
   BILLBOARD. See sign definitions, §
9-1-79.
   BOARDING HOUSE, LARGE. Any building or portion thereof with access typically
provided through a common entrance to guest room(s) having no cooking
facilities and accommodating three or more tenants. Guest rooms are rented for
a period of 30 consecutive calendar days or more under separate written or oral
rental agreements, leases or subleases or a combination thereof, whether or not
the owner, agent or rental manager resides on-site.
   BOARDING HOUSE, SMALL. Any dwelling or portion thereof with access typically
provided through a common entrance to guest room(s) having no cooking
facilities and accommodating a total of two or fewer tenants. Guest rooms are
rented for a period of 30 consecutive calendar days or more under separate
written or oral rental agreements, leases or subleases or a combination
thereof, whether or not the owner, agent or rental manager resides on-site.
   BUILDABLE PORTION. The area of a parcel remaining after deducting all
required setbacks and meeting any requirements regarding maximum lot coverage
or minimum open area.
   BUILDING. An enclosed structure having a roof supported by columns or walls.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The height of a building relative to the surrounding ground
area. The measurement of maximum BUILDING HEIGHT is described in §§
9-1-33 and
9-1-43.
   BUILDING, MAIN. The building containing the main or principal use of the
premises.
   BUILDING, RELOCATABLE. A building which is not placed on a permanent
foundation and is designed to be movable from one location to another without
the need for a special permit such as that required to move a conventional
house. RELOCATABLE BUILDINGS include, but are not limited to, mobile homes,
construction trailers and modular buildings.
   BUILDING SITE. A parcel or contiguous parcels of land established in
compliance with the development standards for the applicable zoning district
and the city’s subdivision code. The terms SITE and BUILDING SITE are
interchangeable for the purposes of this code.
   BUILDING SITE AREA. See definitions under AREA.
   BUILDING SITE COVERAGE. The relationship between the ground floor area of
the buildings and the buildable site area. Carports and parking structures
shall constitute ground floor area for purposes of this definition, but
unenclosed post-supported roofs over patios and walkways, unenclosed post-
supported eave overhangs and swimming pools shall not so constitute ground
floor area.
   BUILDING SITE, PANHANDLE or FLAG. See definitions under LOT.
   BUILDING SITE, THROUGH. A building site having frontage on two parallel or
approximately parallel streets. (See LOT, THROUGH.)
   BUSINESS PARK. See INDUSTRIAL PARK.
   CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT or CEQA. The California Public
Resources Code, §§ 21000 et seq.
   CARETAKER. A person who lives on the premises for the purposes of managing,
operating, maintaining or guarding the principal use or uses permitted on the
premises.
   CARPORT. A roofed structure or a portion of a building which is open on one
or more sides, with no door and no through vehicular access, for the parking of
automobiles belonging to the occupants of the property.
   CEQA GUIDELINES. The California Code of Regulations, Title 14, §§ 15000 et
seq.
   CEQA MANUAL. The city’s locally adopted CEQA Manual provides the city and
project applicants with local guidelines, procedures, requirements and
thresholds of significance for the environmental review process within the city
consistent with the California Environmental Quality Act (California Public
Resources Code (PRC), §§ 21000 et seq.), referred to as CEQA or CEQA STATUTES,
and the State CEQA Guidelines (Title 14, California Code of Regulations (CCR),
Division 6, Chapter 3, §§ 15000 et seq.).
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY or CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY. A permit
issued by the city prior to occupancy of a structure or the establishment of a
land use to assure that the structure or parcel is ready for occupancy or use
and that all ordinance requirements and project conditions of approval are
fulfilled.
   CHILD DAYCARE CENTER or PRESCHOOL. A child daycare facility operated by a
person, corporation or association used primarily for the provision of daytime
care, training or education of children at any location other than their normal
place of residence. The maximum number of children accommodated is determined
by state licensing provisions and city use permit conditions.
   CHILD DAYCARE FACILITY. Consistent with the California Health and Safety
Code, § 1596.750, a facility which provides nonmedical care to children under
18 years of age in need of personal services, supervision or assistance
essential for sustaining the activities of daily living or for the protection
of the individual on less than a 24-hour basis. CHILD DAYCARE FACILITY includes
both child daycare centers and child daycare homes.
   CHILD DAYCARE HOME or FAMILY DAYCARE HOME. Consistent with the California
Health and Safety Code, § 1596.78, a child daycare facility which regularly
provides care, protection and supervision of 14 or fewer children in the
provider’s own home, including children under the age of ten years who reside
at the home. However, a CHILD DAY HOME also includes facilities which provide
care for up to and including 14 children if at least two of the children are at
least six years of age and no more than three infants are cared for during any
time when more than 14 children are cared for.
   CITY. The City of Laguna Niguel and the Laguna Niguel Community Services
District.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Laguna Niguel.
   CLEANING PLANT or LAUNDRY PLANT. A central processing facility for dry
cleaning or laundering of clothing and fabrics collected from and returned to
patrons and dry cleaning and laundry agencies.
   CLINIC, MEDICAL. An organization of medical doctors providing physical or
mental health service and medical or surgical care of the sick or injured, but
not including inpatient or overnight care.
   CLUB. An association of persons for some common purpose, but not including
organizations which provide goods or services and which are customarily carried
on as businesses.
   CODE. This zoning code unless another code, ordinance or law is specified.
   COMMERCIAL. Operated or conducted on a frequent basis for the purpose of
financial gain.
   COMMERCIAL CENTER. See SHOPPING CENTER.
   COMMERCIAL MARIJUANA ACTIVITY. Includes the cultivation, possession,
manufacture, distribution, processing, storing, laboratory testing, labeling,
transportation, dispensing, distribution, delivery or sale of marijuana or
marijuana products.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION. Any use or activity where the primary intent is to
provide amusement, pleasure or sport but which is operated for financial gain.
It includes establishments where food and beverages are sold as a secondary or
ancillary use, but does not include restaurants, nightclubs and cocktail
lounges.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. A vehicle customarily used as part of a business for the
transportation of goods or people.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city unless another commission is
indicated.
   COMMUNITY APARTMENT PROJECT. A project in which an undivided interest in the
land is coupled with the right of exclusive occupancy of any apartment located
thereon.
   CONDOMINIUM. Consistent with the California Civil Code, § 4125, an undivided
interest in common in a portion of real property coupled with a separate
interest in space in a residential, industrial or commercial building on such
real property, such as an office or store or multi-family dwelling. A
CONDOMINIUM may include, in addition, a separate interest in other portions of
such real property.
   CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL. See MANAGED CARE FACILITY.
   CONVERSION PROJECT. An apartment house or multiple or group dwelling which
is existing, under construction or for which building permits have been issued,
and which is proposed for conversion to a residential condominium, community
apartment, residential stock cooperative or planned development.
   COOP APARTMENT or COOPERATIVE APARTMENT. A dwelling unit within a stock
cooperative. (See STOCK COOPERATIVE.)
   CORNER LOT. See definitions under LOT.
   COUNTY. The County of Orange unless another county is indicated.
   CULTIVATION. Any activity involving the planting, growing, harvesting,
drying, curing, grading or trimming of marijuana.
   DAYCARE CENTER. See CHILD DAYCARE CENTER.
   DECISION-MAKING AUTHORITY or DECISION-MAKING BODY. A person or group of
persons charged with making decisions on proposals, applications or other items
brought before the city.
   DELIVERY. The commercial transfer of marijuana or marijuana products to a
customer. DELIVERY also includes the use by a retailer of any technology
platform owned and controlled by the retailer, or independently licensed under
state law that enables customers to arrange for or facilitate the commercial
transfer by a licensed retailer of marijuana or marijuana products.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per gross acre unless another area
measurement is specified.
   DETACHED ADU. An ADU that is constructed as a separate structure from an
existing or proposed single-family dwelling or multi-family dwelling. An
accessory dwelling unit attached to the primary structure via a roof, breezeway
or covered walkway shall be considered a DETACHED ADU.
   DETACHED STRUCTURE. A structure which is not an attached structure. (See the
definition of ATTACHED STRUCTURE.)
   DEVELOPMENT. On land or in or under water: the placement or erection of any
solid material or structure; discharge or disposal of any dredged material or
of any gaseous, liquid, solid or thermal waste; grading, removing, dredging,
mining or extraction of any materials; change in the density or intensity of
use of land, including, but not limited to, subdivision pursuant to the
Subdivision Map Act, and any other division of land, including lot splits,
except where the land division is brought about in connection with the purchase
of such land by a public agency for public recreational use; change in the
intensity of use of water, or of access thereto; construction, reconstruction,
demolition or alteration of the size of any structure, including any facility
of any private, public or municipal utility; and the removal or harvesting of
major vegetation other than for agricultural purposes.
   DIRECTOR or COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR. The Community Development
Director of the city or the Director’s authorized agent or representative.
   DISABLED. Shall have the same meaning as handicapped.
   DISPENSARY. A facility or location, whether fixed or mobile, where
marijuana, marijuana products or devices for the use of marijuana are offered,
made available to or provided, either individually or in any combination, with
or without enumeration, for medical, recreation or other purposes.
   DISTRIBUTION. The procurement, sale and transport of marijuana and marijuana
products between entities for commercial use purposes.
   DISTRICT. See ZONING DISTRICT.
   DISTRICT, NONRESIDENTIAL. See NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   DISTRICT, RESIDENTIAL. See RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   DISTRICT, SPECIAL PURPOSE. See SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTRICT.
   DIVISION. A portion of this zoning code beginning immediately after a lower
case letter enclosed by parentheses, e.g., (A), and extending to the next such
lower case letter, e.g., (B). (Usage example: “...as stated in division (A)
above...”). (See also SECTION.)
   DRIVE-IN or DRIVE-THRU. Designed or operated so as to enable persons to
receive a service or purchase or consume goods while remaining within a motor
vehicle.
   DRIVEWAY. A vehicular passageway providing access from a public or private
street to a structure or parking area or, in the case of residences, to a
garage, carport or legal parking space. A DRIVEWAY is not a street.
   DRIVEWAY APPROACH. A designated area between the curb or traveled way of a
street and the street right-of-way line that provides vehicular access to
abutting properties. When vehicular access to a building site is provided by
way of a common driveway, the DRIVEWAY APPROACH is the line of intersection
where the individual driveway abuts the common driveway.
   DUPLEX. A permanent building containing two dwelling units on a single lot.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed and used for residential
occupancy, but not including hotels or motels.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED. A main dwelling unit attached to one or more other main
dwelling units by means of a roof or common interior wall.
   DWELLING, MAIN OR PRIMARY RESIDENCE. The dwelling unit permitted as the
principal use of a parcel, either by itself or with other dwelling units (as in
multi-family buildings).
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building containing three or more dwelling units
on a single lot or building site.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY ADDITIVE. A building containing three or more
dwelling units on a single lot or building site that is allowed with a
discretionary permit when the baseline commercial thresholds have been achieved
for the building site pursuant to the general plan designation.
   DWELLING, PATIO HOME. A single-family detached dwelling shifted to one side
of the lot; i.e., placed on the lot so that one side setback is zero or nearly
zero and the other side setback is larger than if both side setbacks were
approximately equal.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. One main dwelling unit on a single parcel or
building site.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED. A single-family dwelling not attached to
any other main dwelling.
   DWELLING, TOWNHOME. A main dwelling unit attached typically to two or more
other main dwelling units by means of a roof and/or interior wall, with each
dwelling unit occupying its own lot.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms, including a bathroom and kitchen, designed
and used for occupancy by a single housekeeping unit for living and sleeping
purposes.
   DWELLING UNIT, SECOND. See ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.
   EASEMENT. A recorded right or interest in the land of another which entitles
the holder thereof to some use, privilege or benefit in, on, over or under such
land.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. A private or public elementary or secondary school,
college or university qualified to give general academic instruction equivalent
to the standards prescribed by the California Board of Education.
   EFFICIENCY KITCHEN. Includes a cooking facility with appliances and a food
preparation counter and storage cabinets that are of reasonable size in
relation to the size of the dwelling unit.
   EFFICIENCY UNIT. A dwelling for occupancy by no more than two persons which
has a minimum floor area of 150 square feet, and which may also have partial
kitchen or bathroom facilities. EFFICIENCY UNIT has the same meaning as defined
in the California Health and Safety Code, § 17958.1.
   ELEVATION. The vertical distance above sea level.
   EMERGENCY SHELTER. Defined by California Health and Safety Code, § 50801(e)
as housing with minimal supportive services for homeless persons that is
limited to occupancy of six months or less by a homeless person. No individual
or household may be denied access to an EMERGENCY SHELTER because of an
inability to pay. Should this code’s definition conflict with California Health
and Safety Code, § 50801(e), the California Health and Safety Code definition
prevails.
   EMPLOYEE’S QUARTERS. Quarters, with or without cooking facilities, for the
housing of domestic employees and located upon the same building site occupied
by their employer.
   ENCLOSED. Roofed and contained on all sides by walls which are pierced only
by windows, vents or customary entrances and exits.
   EXCEPTION. A city-approved deviation from a development standard based on
the following types of findings by the decision-making authority:
      (1)   A general finding, such as that, notwithstanding the exception, the
resulting project will still be consistent with the goals and/or policies
underlying the development standard; and
      (2)   One or more specific findings justifying the particular exception
requested.
   FAIR HOUSING LAWS. The Federal Fair Housing Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§
3601 et seq. (FFHA); the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. (ADA); and the California Fair Employment and Housing
Act, being California Government Code, §§ 12900 et seq., (FEHA), as each
statute may be amended from time to time, and each statute’s implementing
regulations.
   FAMILY DAYCARE HOME. See CHILD DAYCARE HOME.
   FIRST STORY. The lowest story of a building which qualifies as a story, as
defined in this article, except that a floor level in a building having only
one floor level shall be classified as a first story; provided such floor level
is not more than four feet below grade for more than 50% of the total perimeter
of the building or not more than eight feet below grade at any point. (See also
BASEMENT.)
   FLAG. See sign definitions, §
9-1-79.
   FLAG LOT or PANHANDLE LOT. See definitions under LOT.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of land areas from the overflow of inland and tidal waters, the rapid
accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source or mudslides (i.e.,
mudflows) which are proximately caused or precipitated by accumulations of
water on or under the ground.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM) or FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP. The
official maps provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) which
delineate the areas of special flood hazard, the risk premium zones and the
floodways applicable to the city.
   FLOODPLAIN. The land area adjacent to a watercourse and other land areas
susceptible to being inundated by water.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and that part of the
floodplain reasonably required to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The total square footage of all floors and mezzanines of
a building, including the exterior walls thereof but excluding courtyards and
other outdoor areas.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The numerical value obtained by dividing the gross floor
area of all buildings, except parking structures, located on a building site by
the buildable site area.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. See sign definitions, §
9-1-79.
   FRONT LOT LINE. See definitions under LOT LINE.
   GAS STATION. The same as service station, but without auto repair or tune-up
services.
   GARAGE. A building or portion of a building used primarily for the parking
of motor vehicles.
   GENERAL PLAN. The general plan of the city.
   GOVERNMENT CODE. The California Government Code.
   GRADE, AVERAGE. The elevation determined by averaging the highest and lowest
elevations of a parcel, building site or other defined area of land.
   GRADE, AVERAGE FINISH. The elevation determined by averaging the highest and
lowest elevations of a parcel, building site or other defined area of land
after final grading.
   GRADE, FINISH. The ground elevation at any point after final grading.
   GRADING. The filling, excavation or other movement of earth for any purpose.
   GROSS ACREAGE. The land area, expressed in acres, within a parcel or group
of contiguous parcels minus any right-of-way for arterial highways not
including collector streets. Each acre so determined is a GROSS ACRE.
   GROSS DENSITY. See DENSITY.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. See FLOOR AREA, GROSS.
   GROSS LOT OR PARCEL AREA. See LOT AREA, GROSS.
   GROUP HOME. A dwelling or portion thereof that is being used as a supportive
living environment for persons who are considered disabled under state or
federal law. GROUP HOMES shall not include the following:
      (1)   State licensed residential care facilities; and
      (2)   Any group home that operates as a single housekeeping unit.
   GUEST HOUSE. An attached or detached dwelling unit which has sanitary
facilities, but no cooking facilities, and which is used primarily for sleeping
purposes by members of the family occupying the main residence and their non-
paying guests or domestic employees.
   HABITABLE AREA. The interior area of a dwelling unit which may be occupied
for living purposes by humans, including basements and attics (if permitted).
HABITABLE AREA does not include a garage or any accessory structure.
   HABITABLE ROOM. Any room usable for living purposes, which includes working,
sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof. A room
designed and used only for storage purposes is not a HABITABLE ROOM.
   HANDICAPPED. As more specifically defined under the fair housing laws, a
person who has a physical or mental impairment that limits one or more major
life activities, a person who is regarded as having that type of impairment, or
a person who has a record of that type of impairment, not including current,
illegal use of a controlled substance.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A waste or combination of wastes which, because of its
quantity, concentration, toxicity, corrosiveness, mutagenicity or flammability,
or its physical, chemical or infectious characteristics, may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   HOME FOR THE AGED. See CONVALESCENT HOME.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or activity conducted as an accessory use
within a dwelling unit incidental to the residential use of the property. See §
9-1-35.10.
   HOSPITAL. A facility licensed by the California Department of Health
Services providing clinical, temporary or emergency service of a medical,
obstetrical, surgical or mental health nature to human patients.
   HOTEL. Any establishment with access provided through a common entrance,
lobby or hallway to guest rooms each having a private bath attached thereto
which are typically rented on a daily basis for the purpose of providing
overnight lodging to the general public for compensation.
   HOUSEHOLD. All the people occupying a dwelling unit.
   HOUSEHOLD PET. A domesticated animal, such as a dog, cat, bird, rodent
(including a rabbit), fish or turtle, that is traditionally kept in the home
for pleasure rather than for commercial purposes.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN. See sign definitions, §
9-1-79.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK, BUSINESS PARK or OFFICE PARK. A nonresidential development
wherein the permitted uses are planned, developed, managed and maintained as a
single project, with landscaping, amenities and common off-street parking
provided to serve all uses on the property.
   INTEGRAL FACILITIES. Any combination of two or more group homes which may or
may not be located on the same or contiguous parcels of land; that are under
the control and management of the same owner, operator, management company or
licensee or any affiliate of any of them; and are integrated components of one
operation shall be referred to as INTEGRAL FACILITIES and shall be considered
one facility for purposes of applying federal, state and local laws to its
operation. Examples of such INTEGRAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited
to, the provision of housing in one facility and recovery programming,
treatment, meals or any other service or services to program participants in
another facility or facilities or by assigning staff or a consultant or
consultants to provide services to the same program participants in more than
one licensed or unlicensed facility.
   INTEGRAL USES. Any two or more residential care programs commonly
administered by the same owner, operator, management company or licensee, or
any affiliate of any of them, in a manner in which participants in two or more
care programs participate simultaneously in any care or recovery activity or
activities so commonly administered. Any such INTEGRAL USE shall be considered
one use for purposes of applying federal, state and local laws to its
operation.
   INTENSITY. The level of development or activity associated with a land use,
as measured by one or more of the following:
      (1)   The amount of parking required for the use per this code;
      (2)   The operational characteristics of the use, such as hours of
operation, the inclusion of dancing or live entertainment as part of the use or
similar characteristics;
      (3)   The floor area occupied by the use; and
      (4)   The percentage of the building site occupied by the use or by the
structure containing the use.
   INTERIOR LOT LINE. See definitions under LOT LINE.
   JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (JADU). A unit that is no more than 500
square feet in size and contained entirely within a single-family residence. A
JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT may include separate sanitation facilities or
may share sanitation facilities with the existing structure.
   KENNEL or ANIMAL SHELTER. Any property where four or more dogs, four or more
cats or other small animals over the age of four months are kept or maintained
for any purpose except veterinary clinics and hospitals.
   KITCHEN. Any room all or part of which is designed and/or used for the
cooking or other preparation of food.
   LAND USE. See USE.
   LAND USE INTENSITY. See INTENSITY.
   LANDFILL, SANITARY. An area designed and used for the disposal of solid
waste on land by spreading it in layers, compacting it and covering it daily
with soil or other approved cover material.
   LAUNDRY PLANT. See CLEANING AND LAUNDRY PLANT.
   LIVABLE SPACE. A space in a dwelling intended for human habitation,
including living, sleeping, eating, cooking or sanitation.
   LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. Any act, play, revue, pantomime, scene, dance or song,
or any combination of the foregoing performed in person either indoors or
outdoors by one or more persons, with or without compensation for their
performance.
   LIVING AREA. See HABITABLE AREA.
   LODGING HOUSE. See BOARDINGHOUSE.
   LOT. An area of land under one ownership which is identified as a lot or
parcel on a recorded final map, parcel map, record of survey recorded pursuant
to an approved division of land, certificate of compliance or lot line
adjustment. The terms LOT and PARCEL are interchangeable for purposes of this
code. Types of LOTS and their definitions are as follows:
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot abutting two streets intersecting at an angle of
not more than 135 degrees. If the angle of intersection is more than 135
degrees, the lot is an “interior lot”.
      (2)   FLAG or PANHANDLE LOT or BUILDING SITE. A lot or building site
having its only vehicular access by way of a narrow accessway which serves no
other property and which is less than 40 feet wide and more than 20 feet long.
      (3)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot abutting only one street or abutting two
streets which intersect at an angle greater than 135 degrees.
      (4)   KEY LOT. A lot with a side lot line that abuts the rear lot line of
one or more adjoining lots.
      (5)   LOT AREA. See definitions under AREA.
      (6)   LOT FRONTAGE. The length of the front lot line.
      (7)   REVERSE CORNER LOT. A corner lot, the rear of which abuts the side
of another lot.
      (8)   THROUGH LOT. A lot with frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
   LOT LINE or PROPERTY LINE. Any boundary of a lot. The classifications of lot
lines and their definitions are as follows:
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE.
         (a)   On an interior lot, the line separating the lot from the street;
         (b)   On a corner lot, the shorter line abutting a street (if the lot
lines are equal or approximately equal, the Director shall determine the front
lot line); and
         (c)   On a through lot, the lot line abutting the street providing
primary access to the lot.
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT LINE. Any lot line not abutting a street.
      (3)   REAR LOT LINE. A lot line which does not intersect the front lot
line and which is most distant from and most parallel to the front lot line. In
the case of an irregularly shaped lot or a lot bounded by only three lot lines,
the rear lot line is a ten-foot long line parallel to and most distant from the
front lot line for the purposes of determining setbacks and other provisions of
this code.
      (4)   SIDE LOT LINE. Any lot line which is not a front or rear lot line.
   LOW BARRIER NAVIGATION CENTER. Defined by California Government Code, §
65660(a) as a housing-first, low-barrier, service-enriched shelter focused on
moving people into permanent housing that provides temporary living facilities
while case managers connect individuals experiencing homelessness to income,
public benefits, health services, shelter and housing. LOW BARRIER means best
practices to reduce barriers to entry, including, without limitation: allowing
pets, permitting partners to share living space and providing storage for
residents’ possessions. Should this code’s definition conflict with the
California Government Code section definition of this term, the Government Code
definition prevails.
   LOWEST FLOOR. With regard to flood protection, the lowest floor of the
lowest enclosed area, including a basement or cellar. An unfinished or flood-
resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage in an area other than a basement area, is not considered a building’s
lowest floor provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the
structure in violation of the applicable design requirements of the FP Overlay
District, §
9-1-54.3.
   MAIN BUILDING. The building containing the principal use on the premises.
   MAIN DWELLING. See DWELLING, MAIN.
   MANAGED CARE FACILITY or PROJECT. Means and includes the following:
      (1)   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES. Facilities providing care on a monthly
basis or longer which are the primary residence of the people served. Such
facilities provide services to residents such as the following: dining,
housekeeping, security, medical, transportation and recreation. Any commercial
services provided are for the exclusive use of the occupants of the facility.
Such facilities may be located in more than one building and/or on contiguous
parcels within the building site.
      (2)   CONVALESCENT HOSPITALS. Facilities licensed by the California
Department of Health Services which provide bed and ambulatory care for seven
or more patients with postoperative convalescent, chronic illness or dietary
problems and persons unable to care for themselves, including persons
undergoing psychiatric care and treatment both as inpatients and outpatients,
but not including persons with contagious diseases or afflictions. A
CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL may also be known as a nursing home, convalescent home,
rest home or home for the aged.
      (3)   RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES. Facilities licensed by the state to
provide living and treatment facilities on a monthly or longer basis for seven
or more of the following: wards of the juvenile court, elderly persons,
mentally disordered persons, developmentally disabled persons, persons
undergoing treatment for alcohol or drug abuse, handicapped persons or
dependent and neglected children. Such a facility is permitted in all types of
residences by operation of state law.
   MANUFACTURE. To compound, blend, extract, infuse or otherwise make or
prepare a marijuana product.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. See MOBILE HOME.
   MARIJUANA. Any or all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa Linnaeus, Cannabis
indica or Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the
resin or separated resin, whether crude or purified, extracted from any part of
the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of the plant, its seeds or resin, including marijuana infused in
foodstuff or any other ingestible or consumable product containing marijuana.
The term MARIJUANA shall include MEDICAL MARIJUANA as such phrase is used in
the August 2019 Guidelines for the Security and Non-Diversion of Cannabis Grown
for Medical Use, as may be amended from time to time, that was issued by the
office of the Attorney General for the state, or for the purposes set forth in
California Health and Safety Code, §§ 11362.7 to 11362.83 (Medical Marijuana
Program Act).
   MARIJUANA ACCESSORIES. Any equipment, products or materials for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, smoking, vaporizing or containing marijuana,
or for ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana or marijuana
products into the human body.
   MARIJUANA ACTIVITY. Any commercial marijuana activity, cultivation of
marijuana, delivery of marijuana, distribution of marijuana, dispensing
marijuana, manufacture of marijuana, sale of marijuana, the personal use and
medical use of marijuana to the extent prohibited by §
9-1-55 and the operation or establishment of a medical marijuana cooperative,
dispensary, delivery service, operator or provider.
   MARIJUANA PRODUCTS. Marijuana that has undergone a process whereby the plant
material has been transformed into a concentrate, including, but not limited
to, concentrated cannabis, or an edible or topical product containing marijuana
or concentrated cannabis and other ingredients.
   MASTER PLAN OF ARTERIAL HIGHWAYS. A component of the circulation element of
the city’s general plan designating adopted and proposed routes for all
commuter, secondary, primary and major highways within the city.
   MASTER PLAN OF DRAINAGE. An engineering report outlining the drainage
facilities needed for the proper development of the city.
   MEDIAN. A paved or planted area separating a street or highway into
opposite-direction travel lanes.
   MEDICAL CLINIC. See CLINIC, MEDICAL.
   MINI-STORAGE FACILITY. A building containing various size storage
compartments not exceeding 500 square feet each, wherein each compartment is
offered for rent or lease to the general public for the private storage of
materials excluding materials sold at the facility or delivered directly to
customers.
   MOBILE HOME or MANUFACTURED HOME. A residential building transportable in
one or more sections which has been certified under the National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401
et seq.
   MOBILE HOME PARK or MOBILE HOME DEVELOPMENT. Any area or tract of land used
to accommodate mobile homes for human habitation, including pads for mobile
homes, clubhouses, recreation facilities and other ancillary structures and
facilities. The term includes mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions.
See §
9-1-35.17.
   MONUMENT SIGN. See sign definitions, §
9-1-79.
   MOTEL. An establishment containing guest rooms with most or all guest rooms
gaining access from an exterior walkway on a daily basis for the purpose of
providing overnight lodging to the general public for compensation.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING OR RESIDENCE. See DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY.
   NET LOT AREA. See definitions under AREA.
   NET PROJECT AREA or NET SITE AREA. See definitions under AREA.
   NONCOMMERCIAL COACH. A vehicle, with or without motive power, designed and
equipped for human occupancy for classrooms and other nonresidential and
noncommercial uses.
   NONCONFORMITY. See §
9-1-121.
   NONCONFORMING USE. See §
9-1-121.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. See §
9-1-121.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. See §
9-1-121.
   NURSERY, DAYCARE. See CHILD DAYCARE FACILITY.
   NURSING HOME. See CONVALESCENT HOME.
   OFFICE PARK. See INDUSTRIAL PARK.
   OFFICIAL ZONING MAP. See ZONING MAP.
   OFF-SITE HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY. Any structures, other appurtenances or
improvements on land used for the treatment, transfer, storage, resource
recovery, disposal or recycling of hazardous waste, including, but not limited
to:
      (1)   Incineration facilities (i.e., rotary kiln, fluid bed and the
like);
      (2)   Residual repository (i.e., receiving only residuals from hazardous
waste treatment facilities);
      (3)   Stabilization/solidification facilities;
      (4)   Chemical oxidation facilities;
      (5)   Neutralization/precipitation facilities; or
      (6)   Transfer/storage facilities.
   OPEN SPACE. Consistent with the open space component of the general plan, an
area of land, creek, river, pond or lake, public or private, which is used
predominantly for passive forms of recreation but may also allow some active
recreation use. OPEN SPACE includes open space corridors, greenbelt areas,
landscaped slopes and conservation areas and may also include bikeways and
riding and hiking trails.
   OPEN SPACE, USEABLE. Open space which is predominately level (i.e., slopes
less than 5%) but which may contain some steeper land (i.e., with slopes up to
20%) which has utility for picnicking or passive recreation activities and
which complements surrounding usable open space. USABLE OPEN SPACE is a minimum
of 15 feet in width and 300 square feet in area and may include structures and
impervious surfaces, such as tot lots, swimming pools, basketball courts,
tennis courts, picnic facilities, walkways or bicycle trails.
   OPERATOR. A company, business or individual who provides residential
services, i.e., the placement of individuals in a residence, setting of house
rules and governing behavior of the residents as residents. OPERATOR does not
include a property owner or property manager that exclusively handles real
estate contracting, property management and leasing of the property and that
does not otherwise meet the definition of operator.
   PANHANDLE LOT or FLAG LOT. See definitions under LOT.
   PARCEL. An area of land under one ownership which is identified as a lot or
parcel on a recorded final map, parcel map, record of survey recorded pursuant
to an approved division of land, certificate of compliance or lot line
adjustment. The terms LOT and PARCEL are interchangeable for purposes of this
code.
   PARKING ACCESSWAY. A vehicular passageway that provides access and
circulation from a street access point into and through a parking lot to
parking aisles and between parking areas.
   PARKING STRUCTURE. A structure which is open or enclosed and is used for the
parking of motor vehicles.
   PARKWAY. The area of a public street that lies between the curb and the
adjacent property line or physical boundary, such as a fence or wall, which is
used for landscaping and/or passive open space.
   PATIO HOME. See DWELLING, PATIO HOME.
   PERMITTED USE. A land use allowed within a zoning district under this zoning
code and subject to the applicable provisions of this code.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, co-partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, limited liability company, estate, trust, business trust,
receiver, syndicate or any other group or combination acting as a unit, and the
plural as well as the singular.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A residential, commercial, office, industrial or
other type of development characterized by comprehensive planning for the
entire project, the clustering of buildings to preserve open space and natural
features and provision for the maintenance and use of open space and other
facilities held in common by the property owners within the project.
   PORTABLE SIGN. See sign definitions, §
9-1-79.
   PRECISE PLAN or PRECISE PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT. The plan or plans for a
project, development or other entitlement approved by the decision-making
authority. A PRECISE PLAN may include site, grading, architecture, landscaping
plans and may also include a plan text describing the project design,
development phasing and other characteristics.
   PRECISE PLAN OF HIGHWAY ALIGNMENT. A plan, supplementary to the master plan
of arterial highways, which establishes the highway centerline and the ultimate
right-of-way lines and may establish building setback lines.
   PRIMARY RESIDENCE. See MAIN DWELLING.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary or predominant use of any parcel or structure.
   PRIVATE RESIDENCE. A house, an apartment unit, a mobile home or other
similar dwelling.
   PROJECTING SIGN. See sign definitions, §
9-1-79.
   PROPERTY LINE. A lot line or parcel boundary.
   PROPOSED DWELLING. A dwelling that is the subject of a permit application
and that meets the requirements for permitting.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The United States, the state, the county or any city within
the county, or any political subdivision or agency thereof.
   PUBLIC TRANSIT. A location, including, but not limited to, a bus stop or
train station, where the public may access buses, trains, subways and other
forms of transportation that charge set fares, run on fixed routes and are
available to the public.
   REAR LOT LINE. See definitions under LOT LINE.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any vehicle or trailer designed and used for temporary habitation,
including motorhomes, travel trailers and pick-up trucks with camper shells;
      (2)   Components or accessories to a vehicle designed and used for
temporary habitation, such as camper shells and cab-over campers;
      (3)   Boats and other watercraft;
      (4)   Vehicles not permitted for street use, such as dune buggies and
off-road motorcycles; and
      (5)   All trailers, including, but not limited to, trailers designed to
transport other recreational vehicles, and all other utility trailers.
   RECYCLING. The process by which waste products are reduced to raw materials
and transformed into new products.
   REFERRAL FACILITY. A residential care facility or a group home where one or
more person’s residency in the facility is pursuant to a court order or
directive from an agency in the criminal justice system.
   RELOCATABLE BUILDING. See BUILDING, RELOCATABLE.
   RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY. A residential facility licensed by the state
where care, services or treatment is provided to six or fewer persons living in
a supportive community residential setting. RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES
include, but may not be limited to, the following: intermediate care facilities
for the developmentally disabled; community care facilities; residential care
facilities for the elderly; residential care facilities for the chronically
ill; alcoholism and drug abuse facilities; pediatric day health and respite
care facilities; residential health care facilities, including congregate
living health facilities; family care home, foster home, group home for the
mentally disordered or otherwise disabled persons or dependent and neglected
children. (See also MANAGED CARE FACILITY.)
   RESIDENTIAL, MULTI-FAMILY. See DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY.
   RESIDENTIAL, SINGLE-FAMILY. See DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY.
   REST HOME. See CONVALESCENT HOME.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment where food and/or beverages are offered, with
11 or more seats. Examples include fine dining, casual sit-down dining, fast
food establishments and other uses deemed to be similar by the Community
Development Director.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-THRU. A restaurant with one or more automobile lanes which
allow for the ordering and dispensing of food and beverages to patrons who
remain in their vehicles.
   RETAIL. The selling of goods or merchandise directly to the ultimate
consumer.
   RETAIL FOOD. An establishment where food and/or beverages are offered and
primarily intended for off-premises consumption, with ten or fewer seats, and
with no alcohol sales. Examples include ice cream shops, delicatessens, baked
good establishments and other uses deemed to be similar by the Community
Development Director.
   REVERSE VENDING MACHINE. A machine which accepts recyclable materials, such
as aluminum cans, newspapers or other materials, from the public and dispenses
money in return.
   RIDING AND HIKING TRAIL. A trail or way designed for and used by
equestrians, pedestrians and cyclists using non-motorized bicycles.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area or strip of land, either public or private, on which
an irrevocable right of passage has been recorded for the use of vehicles or
pedestrians or both.
   ROOF SIGN. See sign definitions, §
9-1-79.
   SALE. Any transaction whereby, for any consideration, title to marijuana is
transferred from one person to another, and includes the delivery of marijuana
or marijuana products pursuant to an order placed for the purchase of the same
and soliciting or receiving an order for the same, but does not include the
return of marijuana or marijuana products by a licensee to the licensee from
whom such marijuana or marijuana product was purchased.
   SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA. An apparatus capable of receiving communications
from a human-made satellite.
   SCENIC HIGHWAY. Any highway designated a scenic highway by an agency of the
city, state or federal government.
   SECTION. A portion of this zoning code beginning immediately after a four-
to seven-digit number beginning with “9-1”, e.g., 9-1-12 or 9-1-161.2, and
extending to the next such four- to seven-digit number, e.g., 9-1-162. (See
also DIVISION.)
   SENIOR CITIZEN. A person 55 years of age or older.
   SENIOR CITIZEN RESIDENCE. A residential care facility which is licensed by
the state to provide living and treatment facilities on a monthly or longer
basis for six or fewer senior citizens.
   SERVICE. An act or any result of useful labor which does not in itself
produce a tangible commodity.
   SERVICE STATION. A retail place of business engaged primarily in the sale of
motor fuels and supplying those incidental goods and services which are
required in the day-to-day operation of motor vehicles, including light auto
repair and tune-up. A convenience store accessory to the automotive use may be
included in the definition of SERVICE STATION. However, though other auto-
oriented uses, such as car washes and fast food restaurants, may share the same
site with SERVICE STATIONS, these are not included within the SERVICE STATION
definition. Also see GAS STATION.
   SETBACK. The distance that a building or other structure or a parking lot or
other facility must be located from a lot line, property line or other
specified boundary. (See also YARD.)
   SHOPPING CENTER or COMMERCIAL CENTER. A commercial area or group of
commercial establishments, planned, developed, managed and maintained as a
unit, with common landscaping, amenities and off-street parking provided to
serve all uses on the property.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. The use of any dwelling unit or portion thereof for a
period of less than 30 consecutive calendar days in exchange for compensation,
financial or otherwise.
   SIDE LOT LINE. See definitions under LOT LINE.
   SIDEWALK SALE or PARKING LOT SALE. The temporary outdoor display and sale by
a retail business of merchandise which is normally displayed indoors at the
same location as the outdoor sale. (See also SPECIAL COMMERCIAL EVENT.)
   SIGN. See sign definitions, §
9-1-79.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING OR RESIDENCE. See DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY.
   SINGLE HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. The occupants of a dwelling unit have established
ties and familiarity with each other, jointly use common areas, interact with
each other, share meals, household activities and expenses and
responsibilities; membership in the SINGLE HOUSEKEEPING UNIT is fairly stable
as opposed to transient, members have some control over who becomes a member of
the household and the residential activities of the household are conducted on
a nonprofit basis. There is a rebuttable presumption that integral facilities
do not constitute SINGLE HOUSEKEEPING UNITS. Additional indications that a
household is not operating as a SINGLE HOUSEKEEPING UNIT include, but are not
limited to: the occupants do not share a lease agreement or ownership of the
property; members of the household have separate, private entrances from other
members; members of the household have locks on their bedroom doors; members of
the household have separate food storage facilities, such as separate
refrigerators.
   SINGLE ROOM OCCUPANCY (SRO) FACILITY or SRO HOTEL. A residential facility
which is rented on a weekly or longer basis and which provides living and
sleeping facilities for one or two persons per unit. Each unit contains a
toilet and sink. Shower, kitchen and laundry facilities may be shared.
   SITE. See BUILDING SITE.
   SITE COVERAGE. See BUILDING SITE COVERAGE.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT or DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. See §
9-1-114.
   SLOPE or SLOPE GRADIENT. The vertical distance between two points on a slope
divided by the horizontal distance between the same two points, with the result
expressed as a percentage; e.g., “the slope has a 20% gradient” (usually used
to describe natural as opposed to manufactured, slopes).
   SLOPE RATIO. The steepness of a slope expressed as a ratio of horizontal
distance to the vertical rise over that horizontal distance; e.g., 2:1 (usually
used to describe manufactured, as opposed to natural, slopes).
   SOBER LIVING HOME. A group home for persons who are recovering from a drug
and/or alcohol addiction and who are considered disabled under state or federal
law. SOBER LIVING HOMES shall not include the following:
      (1)   State licensed residential care facilities; and
      (2)   Any sober living home that operates as a single housekeeping unit.
   SPECIAL CENTER-WIDE EVENT. The temporary outdoor display and sale of
merchandise, or arts and crafts shows, fairs, entertainment or similar events
within a commercial center. (See also SIDEWALK SALE.)
   SPECIFIC PLAN. A plan consisting of text, maps and other documents and
exhibits regulating development within a defined area of the city, consistent
with the general plan and California Government Code, §§ 65450 et seq.
   STOCK COOPERATIVE. A corporation which is formed primarily for the purpose
of holding title to, either in fee simple or for a term of years, improved real
property, if all or substantially all of the shareholders of such corporation
receive a right of exclusive occupancy in a portion of the real property, title
to which is held by the corporation, which right of occupancy is transferable
only concurrently with the transfer of the shares of stock or membership
certificate in the corporation held by the person having such right of
occupancy.
   STORAGE. A place where goods, materials and/or personal property is placed
for more than 24 hours.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor immediately above it or if there is no floor
above, then the space between the floor and the ceiling above it.
   STREET. A public or private vehicular right-of-way other than an alley or
driveway, including both local streets and arterial highways.
   STRUCTURE. Anything that is erected or constructed having a fixed location
on the ground or attached to something on the ground and which extends more
than 30 inches above the finish grade. A mobile home or relocatable building,
except when used as a temporary use with its weight resting at least partially
upon its tires, is a STRUCTURE for the purposes of this definition. (Note: for
the coastal zone only, §
9-1-116.1 defines the term STRUCTURE differently.)
   SUPPORTIVE HOUSING. Defined by California Government Code, § 65650(a) as
housing with no limit on length of stay, that is occupied by the target
population and that is linked to on-site or off-site services that assist the
supportive housing resident in retaining the housing, improving their health
status and maximizing their ability to live and, when possible, work in the
community. Should this code’s definition conflict with the California
Government Code section definition of this term, the California Government Code
definition prevails.
   SURGICENTER. A medical establishment or clinic in which patients are
examined and treated on an outpatient basis only.
   SWIMMING POOL. An artificial body of water containing or normally capable of
containing water to a depth of 18 inches or more at any point, designed,
constructed and used for swimming, dipping or immersion purposes by humans.
This includes, but is not limited to, in-ground, above-ground and on-ground
pools; hot tubs, portable and non-portable spas; and fixed in-place wading
pools.
   TANDEM PARKING. Two or more automobiles are parked on a driveway or in any
other location on a lot, lined up behind one another.
   TEMPORARY USE. A land use established for a specified period of time and
which is discontinued at the end of such specified time.
   TOWNHOME. See DWELLING, TOWNHOME.
   TRANSIENT BASIS. For a continuous period of two weeks or less.
   TRANSITIONAL HOUSING. Defined by California Government Code, § 65582(j) as
buildings configured as rental housing developments, but operated under program
requirements that require the termination of assistance and recirculating of
the assisted unit to another eligible program recipient at a predetermined
future point in time that shall be no less than six months from the beginning
of the assistance. Should this code’s definition conflict with the California
Government Code section definition of this term, the Government Code definition
prevails.
   TWO-UNIT ATTACHED DWELLING. See DWELLING, TWO-UNIT ATTACHED.
   ULTIMATE RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right-of-way shown as ultimate on an adopted
precise plan of highway alignment or the street right-of-way shown within the
boundary of a recorded tract map, a recorded parcel map or a recorded planned
community development plan. The latest adopted or recorded document in such
cases shall take precedence. If none of these exist, the ULTIMATE RIGHT-OF-WAY
is the right-of-way required by the highway classification as shown on the
master plan of arterial highways.
   USE or LAND USE. The purpose for which a structure or land is occupied,
arranged, designed or intended, or for which either a structure or land is or
may be occupied or maintained.
   USE PERMIT or CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. See §
9-1-114.
   VARIANCE. See §
9-1-114.
   VEHICULAR ACCESSWAY. A private, nonexclusive vehicular easement affording
access to abutting properties.
   VETERINARY CLINIC. A place where animals no larger than the largest breed of
dogs are given medical and surgical treatment, primarily on an outpatient
basis, and where the boarding of animals under treatment is incidental to the
principal clinic use.
   WALL SIGN. See sign definitions, §
9-1-79.
   YARD. An open space on a parcel of land unobstructed and unoccupied from the
ground upward except for wall projections permitted by this code. YARDS are
classified as follows:
      (1)   FRONT YARD. A yard extending across the full width of the lot
between the front lot line or the ultimate street right-of-way line and a
setback line within the lot. The depth of the FRONT YARD is equal to the
setback established in the development standards for the applicable zoning
district and is measured along a line drawn at a 90-degree angle to whichever
of the following results in the greatest setback: the front lot line or its
tangent or the ultimate street right-of-way or its tangent.
      (2)   REAR YARD. A yard extending across the full width of the lot
between the rear lot line and a setback line within the lot. The depth of the
REAR YARD is equal to the setback established in the development standards for
the applicable zoning district and is measured along a line drawn at a 90-
degree angle to whichever of the following results in the greatest setback: the
rear lot line or its tangent or the ultimate street right-of-way or its
tangent.
      (3)   SIDE YARD. A yard extending from the front setback line to the rear
setback line. The depth of the SIDE YARD is equal to the setback established in
the development standards for the applicable zoning district and is measured
along a line drawn at a 90-degree angle to whichever of the following results
in the greatest setback: the side lot line or its tangent or the ultimate
street right of-way or its tangent.
   ZONING CODE or CODE. The zoning code of the city, i.e., Subchapter 2,
including the official zoning map and other maps and graphics incorporated in
the zoning code text or included therein by reference.
   ZONING DISTRICT or DISTRICT. An area of the city designated on the official
zoning map and subject to a uniform set of permitted land uses and development
standards.
   ZONING MAP or OFFICIAL ZONING MAP. A map incorporated into this code by
reference which covers the entire land area of the city and is divided into
zoning districts for the purpose of specifying for each such land area the uses
permitted, development standards required and other applicable provisions of
this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-142) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 2011-163, § 3,
passed 5-3-2011; Ord. 2016-184, § 2, passed 10-4-2016; Ord. 2017-187, § 2,
passed 6-6-2017; Ord. 2018-194, § 2, passed 6-5-2018; Ord. 2019-197, § 3,
passed 6-4-2019; Ord. 2021-210, §§ 77—80, passed 8-3-2021; Ord. 2021-211, §§ 7,
8, passed 8-3-2021; Ord. 2022-216, § 5, passed 7-19-2022; Ord. 2022-216, § 5,
passed 7-19-2022; Ord. 2023-223, § 5, passed 6-20-2023; Ord. 2024-228, passed
5-21-2024; Ord. 2024-232, passed 1-21-2025)
APPENDIX A PRECISE PLANS FOR “RP” DISTRICT.
   (A)   Approved precise plans for each project within the RP Planned
Residential District.
   (B)   Per §
9-1-33.2, all setbacks and other development standards within each project
shall conform to its applicable precise plan.
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Appendix A) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
Editor’s note:
   Appendix A, precise plans for “RP” District, is included herein by
reference. Copies of said Appendix A are on file in the City Community
Development Department.
APPENDIX B SOUTH LAGUNA SPECIFIC PLAN/LOCAL COASTAL PROGRAM.
[Reserved]
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Appendix B) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
Editor’s note:
   Appendix B, South Laguna specific plan/local coastal program, is included
herein by reference. Copies of said Appendix B are on file in the City
Community Development Department.
APPENDIX C ALISO CREEK PLANNING UNIT LOCAL COASTAL PROGRAM.
[Reserved]
(Prior Code, Chapter 9, Appendix C) (Ord. 99-107, § 5, passed 2-2-1999)
Editor’s note:
   Appendix C, Aliso Creek planning unit local coastal program, is included
herein by reference. Copies of said Appendix C are on file in the City
Community Development Department.
§§ 9-1-143—9-1-199 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. SUBDIVISION CODE ****
** ARTICLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS **
§ 9-1-200 TITLE.
   This subchapter may be cited as the “subdivision code”.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-200) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Highway, flood control and recreational facilities, see §§ 7-2-1 et seq.
§ 9-1-201 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide regulations and controls
for the design and improvement of subdivisions in the city, in accordance with
the Subdivision Map Act.
   (B)   Other purposes of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To implement the city’s general plan;
      (2)   To provide regulations and controls, within the law, over the use
of land in the city for the health, safety and welfare of present and future
residents of the city; and
      (3)   To provide a procedure for lot line adjustments in the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-201) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-202 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall offer to sell or lease, contract to sell or lease,
sell or lease, finance any parcel of real property or commence construction of
any building for sale, lease or financing thereon, except for model homes, or
allow occupancy thereof, for which a final tract map is required by this
subchapter, until such map thereof, in full compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter and the Subdivision Map Act, has been filed for record by the
County Recorder.
   (B)   No person shall sell, lease or finance any parcel of real property or
commence construction of any building for sale, lease or financing thereon,
except for model homes, or allow occupancy thereof, for which a parcel map is
required by this subchapter, until such map thereof, in full compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter and the Subdivision Map Act, has been filed
for record by the County Recorder.
   (C)   No permit to develop any real property which has been divided or which
has resulted from a division in violation of the Subdivision Map Act or this
subchapter shall be granted by any officer or employee of the city or by the
Planning Commission or the City Council unless a certificate of compliance has
been issued and recorded for the property to be developed in accordance with
Subchapter 3, Article 15.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-202) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-203 DIRECTOR DEFINED; ENFORCING OFFICER.
   Any reference to the Director in this subchapter shall be to the Director of
Community Development. The Director shall be responsible for enforcing the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-203) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-204 SUBDIVISION MANUAL.
   (A)   The Director of Community Development shall formulate such rules,
procedures and interpretations as may be necessary or convenient to administer
this subchapter. Such rules, procedures and interpretations shall be referred
to as the Subdivision Manual.
   (B)   The Subdivision Manual and any amendments to it shall not be effective
until they are approved by action of the City Council. Copies of the
Subdivision Manual shall be made available to the public at a cost sufficient
to pay for printing.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-204) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-205 SUBDIVISION COMMITTEE.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby established a subdivision committee.
      (2)   The Committee shall consist of the following members or their duly
authorized representatives:
         (a)   The Director of Community Development;
         (b)   The City Engineer; and
         (c)   The City Attorney.
      (3)   The Director of Community Development shall serve as Chairperson of
the Committee, and the Committee shall select a Vice Chair. The city health
officer, the City Fire Chief, the City Police Chief and the City Traffic
Engineer shall provide advice and recommendations to the Subdivision Committee
regarding specific subdivision proposals when so requested by the Director of
Community Development.
   (B)   The Subdivision Committee shall review all tentative tract maps and
tentative parcel maps and shall report findings; recommended actions, including
approval or denial; and recommended conditions for approval to the Planning
Commission.
   (C)   The Subdivision Committee shall review and make recommendations to the
Planning Commission and City Council on petitions for reversion to acreage.
   (D)   The Subdivision Committee shall review all lot line adjustments and
shall have authority to approve such adjustments, with the exception of those
petitions which are deemed to be of a major or controversial nature, in which
case the Subdivision Committee shall refer the adjustments to the Planning
Commission for action with its recommendations.
   (E)   The Subdivision Committee shall perform such other duties as may be
specified by the Director of Community Development or the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-205) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-17, § 4,
passed 4-17-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 3, passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-206 AUTHORITY OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The City Planning Commission is hereby designated as an advisory
agency as that term is used in the Subdivision Map Act and shall have the
authority to review and approve, conditionally approve or disapprove tentative
tract maps and tentative parcel maps and lot line adjustments that are referred
to the Planning Commission by the Subdivision Committee.
   (B)   The City Planning Commission is hereby designated as an appeal board
as that term is used in the Subdivision Map Act for hearing appeals from
actions of the Subdivision Committee with respect to lot line adjustments.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-206) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 4,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-207 PROCESSING AND FILING FEES.
   Fees to cover the costs incurred by the city in processing maps, plans and
requests filed pursuant to the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and this
subchapter shall be paid to the city in compliance with the fee resolution
adopted by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-207) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-208 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 9-1-209 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
ARTICLE 2. DEFINITIONS
§ 9-1-210 MODIFICATION OF MAP ACT DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions in the Subdivision Map Act shall govern the meaning of words
in this subchapter, except as follows:
 
Terms Used in this Subchapter Equivalent Terms in Subdivision Map Act
Final tract map               Final map
Tract map                     Final map
Final parcel map              Parcel map
Tentative tract map           Tentative map
Tentative parcel map          Tentative map
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-210) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-211 APPLICABILITY OF ZONING CODE, GRADING CODE AND MAP ACT DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise defined in this subchapter, words and phrases used in this
subchapter shall be deemed to have the same meaning applied to them in the
city’s zoning code, the city’s grading and excavation code and the Subdivision
Map Act.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-211) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-212 SUBDIVISION CODE DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   All references to this §
9-1-212 shall include §§
9-1-213 through
9-1-230.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-212) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, §
1-1-18
§ 9-1-213 DEFINITIONS (A).
   ADVISORY AGENCY. The City Planning Commission is the advisory agency for the
items specified in §
9-1-206, and the Subdivision Committee is the advisory agency for items
specified in §
9-1-205.
   APPEAL BOARD. The City Council is hereby designated as an appeal board as
that term is used in the Subdivision Map Act, for appeals from the Planning
Commission with respect to tentative tracts, tentative parcel maps and lot line
adjustments. The City Planning Commission is, as specified in §
9-1-206, the Appeal Board for hearing appeals on actions of the Subdivision
Committee with respect to lot line adjustments.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-213) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 5,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-214 DEFINITIONS (B).
   BUILDING SITE. A parcel, or contiguous parcels, of land which was
established in compliance with the building site requirements in Subchapter 2.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-214) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-215 DEFINITIONS (C).
   CITY ENGINEER. The City Engineer of the city.
   CITY STANDARDS. City standard specifications, as adopted by the City
Council.
   COMMUNITY APARTMENT PROJECT. A project in which an undivided interest in the
land is coupled with the right of exclusive occupancy of any apartment located
thereon.
   CONDOMINIUM. An estate in real property consisting of an undivided interest
in common in a portion of a parcel of real property together with a separate
interest in space in a residential, industrial or commercial building on such
real property, such as an apartment, office or store. A CONDOMINIUM may include
in addition a separate interest in other portions of such real property.
   CONDOMINIUM PROJECT. An entire parcel of real property divided or to be
divided into condominiums, including all structures thereon.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-215) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-216 DEFINITIONS (D).
   DRIVEWAY. A designated passageway providing vehicular access between a
street and a garage or carport, a parking area or other driveway or street. A
DRIVEWAY shall not be considered a street.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-216) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-217 DEFINITIONS (E).
   EASEMENT. A recorded right or interest in the land of another, which
entitles the holder thereof to some use, privilege or benefit out of or over
such land.
   ENGINEERING GEOLOGIST. A person duly certified in the state to practice
engineering geology.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-217) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-218 DEFINITIONS (F).
   FLOOD CONTROL WORK or DRAINAGE WORK. All means of conveying or storing
stormwater, including natural watercourses, improved drainage channels,
retarding basins, closed conduits or pipes and authorized or existing flood
control channels; and also the control of sedimentation.
   FLOOD HAZARD. The capability of flowing water or mixtures of soils and water
to impair or to damage buildings and other structures and their functions; to
erode natural and modified land surfaces, including channels and watercourses;
and to deposit eroded material on either public or private property in a
damaging or impairing manner and amount.
   FLOOD HAZARD, POSSIBLE. Possible extension of areas denoted as subject to
flood, including also the uncertainty of the degree or extent of bank erosion.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-218) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-219 DEFINITIONS (G).
   GRADING CODE. The city’s grading and excavation code.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-219) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Excavation and grading code, see §§
8-1-800 et seq.
§ 9-1-220 DEFINITIONS (H).
   HILLSIDE. A parcel of land or a definable portion thereof with an average
slope of 10% or more, or an average rise or fall of one foot or more vertically
for each ten feet horizontally.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-220) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-221 DEFINITIONS (I).
   IMPROVEMENT. Such street work and utilities to be installed or agreed to be
installed on the land proposed to be subdivided by any person to be used for
public or private streets, highways, ways and easements as are necessary for
the general use of the lot owners in the subdivision and local neighborhood
traffic and drainage needs as a condition precedent to the approval and
acceptance of the final tract or parcel map thereof. The term IMPROVEMENT also
refers to such other specific improvements or types of improvements, the
installation of which, either by the subdivider, by public agencies, by private
utilities, by any other entity approved by the City Council or by a combination
thereof, is necessary or convenient to ensure conformity to or implementation
of the city’s general plan or any adopted specific plan.
   INUNDATION. Ponded water or water in motion of sufficient depth to damage
property due to the mere presence of water or to deposition of silt.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-221) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-222 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 9-1-223 DEFINITIONS (M).
   MASTER PLAN OF DRAINAGE. An engineering report adopted by the City Council,
pursuant to California Government Code, §§ 66483 et seq., which outlines the
local drainage facilities, but not including necessary on-site or regional
facilities, needed for proper development of a specific area of the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-223) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-224 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 9-1-225 DEFINITIONS (P).
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, copartnership, joint venture, association,
club, social club, fraternal organization, corporation, estate, trust, business
trust, receiver, syndicate, county, city, municipality, district or other
political subdivision, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-225) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-226 DEFINITIONS (R).
   REMAINDER PARCEL. The portion of a parcel of land which is not to be
included within the boundaries of the final parcel or tract map.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A specifically defined area or strip of land, either public or
private, on which an irrevocable right of passage or use has been recorded.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-226) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-227 DEFINITIONS (S).
   SLOPE, HUMAN-MADE. A manufactured slope consisting wholly or partly of
either cut or filled material.
   SOIL ENGINEER. A civil engineer duly registered in the state whose field of
expertise includes soil mechanics.
   STOCK COOPERATIVE. As defined in the Subdivision Map Act.
   STREET. A public or private vehicular right-of-way, other than an alley or
driveway, including both local streets and arterial highways.
   SUBDIVIDER. As defined in the Subdivision Map Act.
   SUBDIVISION. As defined in the Subdivision Map Act.
   SUBDIVISION MAP ACT. California Government Code, §§ 66410 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-227) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-228 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 9-1-229 DEFINITIONS (V).
   VEHICULAR ACCESS RIGHTS. The right of persons to gain entry or exit with a
vehicle to or from a street or driveway to or from abutting land.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-229) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-230 DEFINITIONS (Z).
   ZONING CODE. The city’s zoning code.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-230) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning code, see §§
9-1-20 et seq.
** ARTICLE 3. TYPES OF MAPS PERMITTED **
§ 9-1-230.1 MAPS AND PROCEDURES.
   Four different types of maps and procedures are available for the purpose of
creating subdivisions and lots. Certain subdivisions may be created without
following a map procedure.
(Prior Code, Title 9, Division 1, Article 3, Subarticle 3)
§ 9-1-231 TENTATIVE TRACT MAPS.
   A tentative tract map is a preliminary map that is used whenever a parcel or
a number of contiguous parcels of land is proposed to be subdivided for the
purpose of creating five or more lots, five or more condominium units, the
conversion of five or more existing dwelling units to a stock cooperative or a
community apartment project containing five or more apartment units, except as
otherwise specified by §§
9-1-232 or
9-1-235.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-231) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-232 TENTATIVE PARCEL MAPS.
   A tentative parcel map is a preliminary map that is used whenever a parcel
or contiguous parcels of land is proposed to be subdivided for the purpose of
creating less than five lots, less than five condominium units or a community
apartment project containing less than five apartment units or where:
   (A)   The land before division contains less than five acres, each parcel
proposed to be created by the subdivision will abut upon a maintained public
street or highway, and all dedications and improvements required by city
standards will have been previously complied with;
   (B)   Each parcel proposed to be created by the subdivision will have a
gross area of 20 acres or more and a right of vehicular access for a continuous
width of not less than 20 feet to a maintained public street or highway;
   (C)   The parcel of land proposed to be subdivided is within a tract of land
zoned for commercial or industrial uses and abuts streets or highways which
have been approved by the city as to alignment and width and to which it has a
right of vehicular access for a minimum continuous width of not less than 28
feet; or
   (D)   Each parcel proposed to be created by the subdivision will have a
gross area of not less than 40 acres or not less than a quarter of a quarter
section.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-232) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-233 FINAL TRACT MAPS.
   A subdivision may be created by the recordation of a final tract map that is
in substantial conformance with all or a portion of an approved tentative tract
map. Each final tract map shall include all or an approved portion of the
approved tentative tract map. It shall be filed in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter, the Subdivision Map Act and the Subdivision
Manual.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-233) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision Map Act, see §
9-1-227
§ 9-1-234 FINAL PARCEL MAPS.
   (A)   A subdivision may be created by the recordation of a final parcel map
that is in substantial conformance with an approved tentative parcel map or
with a portion of an approved tentative parcel map which complies with the
provisions of §
9-1-232(C). A final parcel map may also be recorded on portions of a tentative
tract map when such portions comply with the specifications of §
9-1-232(B), (C) or (D). It shall be filed in compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter, the Subdivision Map Act and the Subdivision Manual.
   (B)   A parcel map shall be based upon a field survey, except that a parcel
map may be compiled from a record data when the City Engineer determines that
the subdivision does not require a field survey; provided the map complies with
the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-234) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-235 EXCEPTIONS.
   Certain types of land divisions and transactions may be completed without
complying with the entire tentative and final tract or parcel map procedure, as
specified in this section.
   (A)   (1)   A request for determination as to the status of any parcel of
land created as a result of a lease or conveyance specified by divisions (A)(2)
(a) through (A)(2)(i) below may be submitted in compliance with the certificate
of compliance procedure as stated in Subchapter 3, Article 15.
      (2)   Neither a tentative nor a final tract or parcel map is necessary
for the following:
         (a)   The financing or leasing of apartments, offices, stores or
similar space within apartment buildings, industrial buildings, commercial
buildings, mobile home parks or trailer parks;
         (b)   Mineral, oil or gas leases;
         (c)   Land dedicated for cemetery purposes under the California Health
and Safety Code;
         (d)   Leases of agricultural land for agricultural purposes;
         (e)   Short-term leases, terminable by either party on not more than
30 days’ notice in writing, of a portion of the operating right-of-way of a
railroad corporation defined as such by California Public Utilities Code, §
230;
         (f)   Subdivisions in which every parcel has a gross area of 60 acres
or more;
         (g)   Lot line adjustments;
         (h)   Conveyances of land for rights-of-way to or from a governmental
agency, public entity or public utility, or to a subsidiary of a public utility
for conveyance to such a public utility; however, in any of these instances, a
tentative and final tract or parcel map may be required if the Director of
Community Development determines that a map is necessary for purposes of public
health and safety or for the general welfare; and
         (i)   Boundary line or exchange agreements to which the California
Lands Commission or a local agency holding a trust grant of tide and submerged
lands is a party.
   (B)   A final parcel map is not required when waived pursuant to the
provisions of Subchapter 3, Article 13.
   (C)   A request for certificate of compliance may or may not require a
tentative map, as specified by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-235) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-236 VESTING TENTATIVE MAPS.
   A vesting tentative map is a map which confers a vested right to proceed
with development for a specified time after recordation.
   (A)   A vesting tentative map is at the option of the subdivider and shall
not be a prerequisite to any proposed subdivision or application for
development.
   (B)   A vesting tentative map shall be identified on the submittal as a
vesting tentative map.
   (C)   A vesting tentative map is limited to development of the property per
the applicable regulations in existence at the time of approval of the vesting
tentative map or per division (D) below.
   (D)   Whenever a subdivider files a vesting tentative map whose intended
development is inconsistent with the zoning ordinance in effect at the time,
the inconsistency shall be noted on the vesting tentative map and the vesting
tentative map shall be processed subject to the provisions of §
9-1-254, pertaining to zoning conformance.
   (E)   A vesting tentative map shall be processed in the same manner as a
tentative map. However, previously approved tentative maps which were not
approved as vesting tentative maps may be so approved only if refiled and
processed in compliance with all requirements in this subchapter.
   (F)   The provisions of §
9-1-258, pertaining to period of validity and extensions, shall apply to an
approved or conditionally approved vesting tentative map.
   (G)   The vested right for a recorded subdivision map shall be for a period
of one year beyond the recording date of the final map or parcel map, and shall
confer on such maps all rights described in California Government Code, §§
66498.1 through 66498.8. Where several final maps or parcel maps are recorded
on various phases of a project covered by a single vesting tentative map, the
one-year time period shall begin when the final map or parcel map for that
phase is recorded. Prior to the expiration of the initial one-year period, the
developer may apply for a one-year extension of the period of the vested right
to the Planning Commission. If the extension is denied, the developer may
appeal that denial to the City Council within 15 calendar days.
   (H)   The provisions of §
9-1-257, pertaining to modification of maps and conditions of approval, shall
apply to an approved or conditionally approved vesting tentative map.
   (I)   Fees for the filing and processing of vesting tentative maps shall be
the same as the fees established for the filing and processing of tentative
maps. However, the City Council may establish by resolution an additional fee
to cover additional costs incurred by the processing of vesting tentative maps,
including an extension of time.
   (J)   Fees for development permits (e.g., building and grading permits)
filed per an approved vesting tentative map or a recorded vesting final/parcel
map shall be the fees in effect at the time of issuance of such permit.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-236) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
** ARTICLE 4. FILING OF TENTATIVE MAPS **
§ 9-1-237 TYPES OF MAPS COVERED.
   This article pertains to tentative parcel maps and tentative tract maps.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-237) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-238 FORM AND CONTENTS.
   Tentative maps shall conform with such requirements as to form and contents
as may be specified by the Director of Community Development in the Subdivision
Manual.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-238) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-239 PERSONS WHO MAY FILE.
   Any property owner who proposes to subdivide their property may file a
tentative map. Any person who proposes to subdivide property that is legally
owned by another person may file a tentative map for such property with the
written consent of the legal owner of record.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-239) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-240 CERTIFICATION OF OWNERSHIP.
   Each tentative map shall be signed by the property owner or owners of
record, and shall be accompanied by evidence of ownership of the real property
proposed for subdivision. When any portion of a tentative map includes property
that is owned by a public agency, the certification of ownership need not
include the signatures for such ownerships; provided such portions are clearly
identified on the map.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-240) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-241 TITLE REPORT.
   Tentative maps shall be accompanied by a preliminary title report which
discloses all possessory interests and interests of record in the land being
subdivided, when determined to be necessary by the Director of Community
Development.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-241) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-242 ENVIRONMENTAL DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Tentative maps shall be accompanied by appropriate environmental
documents in accordance with CEQA, being California Public Resources Code, §§
21000 et seq.
   (B)   (1)   When it has been determined that an environmental impact report
or a negative declaration is required for a tentative map, the application for
the tentative map shall not be deemed complete until the applicant has
deposited with the Community Development Department sufficient funds to pay for
the costs of preparing the environmental impact report or negative declaration.
      (2)   The Director of Community Development shall determine the amount of
funds required to be deposited for the preparation of an environmental impact
report or negative declaration, and so advise the applicant of that amount
within ten days after the application is filed with the Community Development
Department.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-242) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-50, § 3,
passed 12-3-1991)
§ 9-1-243 SOILS REPORT.
   (A)   (1)   Unless the requirement is waived by the Director of Community
Development, pursuant to division (B) below or deferred pursuant to division
(C) below, tentative maps shall be accompanied by a preliminary soils report
based upon adequate test borings and prepared by a registered civil engineer.
      (2)   If the preliminary soils report indicates the presence of
critically expansive soils or other soils problems which, if not corrected,
would lead to structural defects, a soils report on each proposed lot in the
subdivision containing any such soils problem shall accompany the tentative
map.
      (3)   Such reports shall include recommended corrective action which is
likely to prevent structural damage.
   (B)   The Director may waive the preliminary soils report required by
division (A) above for tentative tract maps where they determine that it is
unnecessary because the city already has sufficient information as to the
qualities of the soils in the proposed subdivision and for tentative parcel
maps.
   (C)   The Director may defer the requirement for a preliminary soils report
until the submission of a final tract or parcel map.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-243) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-244 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   (1)   Tentative maps shall be accompanied by such additional
information as may be specified by the Director of Community Development.
      (2)   The Director shall have the authority to include, among such
requirements, geologic, seismic and hydrology reports; aerial photographs and
transparent overlays; grading, site development and landscaping plans,
including building setback lines; evidence from the proposed sewering agency
and water supplier with respect to their capability of serving the proposed
subdivision; fire protection and fuel modification reports; and any other
information reasonably relevant to proposed subdivisions.
   (B)   The Director may require differing amounts of supplementary
information, depending upon the type of map involved, the scope of the proposed
subdivision and the anticipated environmental impacts of the subdivision.
   (C)   The Director may require the submission of additional information
after the filing of tentative maps as necessary.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-244) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-245 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 5. PROCEDURES FOR TENTATIVE MAPS **
§ 9-1-246 TYPES OF MAPS COVERED.
   This article pertains to tentative parcel maps and tentative tract maps.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-246) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-247 FILING.
   (A)   Tentative maps shall be filed with the Director of Community
Development, who shall accept such maps only when they determine that the
requirements for filing a tentative map established by this subchapter and the
Subdivision Map Act have been satisfied. The date a tentative map is filed
shall be the date it is accepted by the Director.
      (C)   Each tract or parcel map shall be identified by a number
prominently displayed on the face of the map issued by the County Surveyor.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-247) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-248 COPIES TO CONCERNED AGENCIES.
   (A)   Where a local agency has filed a territorial map with the Director of
Community Development, pursuant to the Subdivision Map Act, the Director shall
forward a copy of any filed tentative map which is located wholly or partially
within the territory outlined on the territorial map to the local agency within
three days of the date the tentative map is filed.
   (B)   When the California Department of Transportation has filed with the
City Council a map of territory within one mile on either or both sides of any
state highway routing pursuant to the California Government Code, the Director
shall forward a copy of any filed tentative map which is located wholly or
partially within the territory outlined on the territorial map to the district
office of the Department of Transportation within three days of the date the
tentative map is filed.
   (C)   Within three days of the date a tentative map is filed, the Director
shall give notice of the filing to the governing boards of the school districts
within which the proposed subdivision is located pursuant to the California
Government Code.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-248) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-249 TIME FOR ACTION.
   The Planning Commission shall act upon a tentative map within the time
specified in the Subdivision Map Act unless:
   (A)   An extension of time for action is mutually consented to by the
subdivider and the Planning Commission, in which case the map shall be acted
upon within the time agreed upon; or
   (B)   The subdivider withdraws the map.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-249) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 6,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-250 REPORTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
   Reports and recommendations on tentative maps shall be in writing and shall
be provided to the subdivider at least three days prior to the date action on
the map is scheduled; provided that a subdivider:
   (A)   May waive this requirement; and
   (B)   May consent to the receipt by the Planning Commission of additional
recommendations; and provided, further, that a subdivider shall be deemed to
have consented, unless the subdivider specifically objects to the form and
timeliness of such additional recommendations prior to the time the Planning
Commission takes action on the tentative map.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-250) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 7,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-251 REVIEW OF TENTATIVE MAPS.
   Each tentative map shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission, which shall
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove it.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-251) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 8,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-252 SUBSTITUTION OF REVISED MAPS.
   A revised tentative map may be submitted at any time prior to action on the
map by the Planning Commission. The time for action on a tentative map
specified in § 9-1-249 shall recommence upon the acceptance by the Director of
Community Development of a revised tentative map.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-252) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 9,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-253 MEETINGS AND HEARINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall act on tentative maps at regularly
scheduled meetings when the matter has been duly placed upon the Commission’s
agenda. Public hearings shall not be required for the consideration of
tentative maps; provided that the Director of Community Development may set any
map for public hearing before the Planning Commission when it has been
determined that it would be in the public interest to do so. Whether or not a
map is considered at a public hearing, the Planning Commission shall conduct
its meetings in the same manner as public hearings, and all interested persons
shall be given an opportunity to address the Planning Commission on any matter
pertaining to a proposed subdivision.
   (B)   Where approval of a tentative map will constitute a substantial or
significant deprivation of the property rights of other landowners, notice
shall be given to all persons shown in the latest equalized assessment roll as
owning property within 300 feet of the property proposed to be subdivided by at
least one of the following methods:
      (1)   Direct mailing to the owners;
      (2)   Posting of notice on and off the site in the area where the project
is to be located;
      (3)   Delivery of notice by any means other than mail to the owners; and
      (4)   Any other methods reasonably determined to provide actual notice.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-253) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 10,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-254 ZONING CONFORMANCE.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall not approve or conditionally approve a
tentative map which does not conform with applicable zoning, except as provided
in division (B) below.
   (B)   A tentative map may be approved when it conforms with zoning which has
been recommended for adoption by the Planning Commission on the condition that
the zoning must become effective prior to recordation of the final tract or
parcel map.
   (C)   A tentative map shall not be approved if it is apparent that any
proposed parcel cannot be developed to its intended use without the
modification of site development standards.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-254) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 11,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-255 FINDINGS REQUIRED.
   A tentative parcel map or tentative tract map shall be approved or
conditionally approved only if the Planning Commission makes the following
findings.
   (A)   The proposed map is consistent with the city’s general plan.
   (B)   The design and improvement of the proposed subdivision is consistent
with the city’s general plan.
   (C)   The site is physically suitable for the proposed type of development.
   (D)   The requirements of CEQA, being California Public Resources Code, §§
21000 et seq., have been satisfied.
   (E)   The site is physically suitable for the proposed density of
development.
   (F)   The design of the subdivision and the proposed improvements are not
likely to cause substantial environmental damage or substantial and avoidable
injury to fish or wildlife or their habitat.
   (G)   The design of the subdivision and the proposed improvements are not
likely to cause serious public health problems.
   (H)   The design of the subdivision and the proposed improvements will not
conflict with easements of record or established by court judgment, acquired by
the public at large, for access through or use of property within the proposed
subdivision or, if such easements exist, that alternate easements for access or
for use will be provided, and that these will be substantially equivalent to
ones previously acquired by the public.
   (I)   The design and improvement of the proposed subdivision are suitable
for the uses proposed and the subdivision can be developed in compliance with
the applicable zoning regulations pursuant to §
9-1-254.
   (J)   The subdivision is not located in an area for which fees to fund
facilities and services have been adopted and imposed, or conditions of
approval of the subdivision are imposed obligating the subdivider to pay any
applicable fees before recordation or enter into an agreement securing such
payment before recordation, or the subdivision would not allow development of a
project which would contribute to the need for facilities for which a fee is
required.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-255) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 12,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-256 ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall determine whether the discharge of waste
from the proposed subdivision into an existing community sewer system, where
such a system exists, would result in or add to a violation of existing
requirements prescribed by either the Santa Ana or San Diego Regional Water
Quality Control Boards. If it is determined that the proposed waste discharge
would result in or add to such a violation, the Planning Commission shall
disapprove the tentative map unless there are extenuating or overriding
considerations, in which case these shall be stated.
   (B)   If a subdivision fronting upon the coastline or shoreline or upon a
public waterway, river or stream, or upon a lake or reservoir owned in part or
entirely by a public agency, does not provide public access to such public
resources through the subdivision itself in accordance with the requirements of
§§
9-1-286,
9-1-287 and
9-1-288, the Planning Commission shall find that reasonable public access to
the resource in question is otherwise available within a reasonable distance
from the subdivision. If this finding cannot be made, the map shall be
disapproved.
   (C)   If the Planning Commission approves or conditionally approves a
tentative map which deviates from any standard of design as allowed by §
9-1-291, the Commission shall make a finding that each such deviation has been
individually considered and found to be justified based upon specific special
circumstances which apply.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-256) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 13,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-257 MODIFICATION OF MAPS AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon the request of the subdivider, approved tentative maps may be
modified and conditions of approval may be modified or deleted by the Planning
Commission. In all cases, the Director of Community Development shall attempt
to notify any third-parties who had previously indicated an interest in the
matter of the Planning Commission’s scheduled consideration of the
modification.
   (B)   Modifications shall be considered by the Planning Commission in the
manner, and in accordance with the notice requirements, where applicable, set
forth in §
9-1-253(B).
(Prior Code, § 9-1-257) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 14,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-258 PERIOD OF VALIDITY; EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   An approved or conditionally approved tentative map shall expire 24
months after its approval or conditional approval, unless prior to the
expiration date the subdivider requests an extension of time to record the map.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may grant an extension of time for the map to
be recorded for a period not exceeding a total of three years beyond the
original date of expiration.
   (C)   An extension may be granted only where it will not result in
conditions or circumstances contrary to the public health and safety and the
general welfare.
   (D)   Denial of a request for extension may be appealed by the subdivider to
the City Council within 15 days of the action by filing an appeal with the
Director of Community Development.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-258) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 15,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-259 APPEAL TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
9-1-258, any interested person may appeal to the Planning Commission from any
action of the Subdivision Committee by filing an appeal with the Director of
Community Development within ten days of the action.
   (B)   The appeal shall identify the action being appealed, specify why the
appellant is dissatisfied with the action and suggest alternative action.
   (C)   The Director shall bring the matter before the Planning Commission for
hearing within 30 days after the date of filing the appeal. The subdivider and
the appellant, if other than the subdivider, shall be given at least ten days’
notice of the Planning Commission’s hearing. Where applicable, notice shall be
given in the manner set forth in §
9-1-253(B).
   (D)   The Planning Commission may affirm, reverse or modify any
recommendations or rulings of the Subdivision Committee and may make such
findings as it deems appropriate. If only one or a limited number of conditions
are being appealed, the Planning Commission need not limit its review to those
specific conditions but may review the whole action taken by the Subdivision
Committee. The Planning Commission shall render its decision on the appeal
within seven days of the conclusion of its hearing.
   (E)   An appeal, once filed, may be withdrawn only with the consent of the
Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-259) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-260 APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any interested person may appeal to the City Council from any action
of the Planning Commission by filing an appeal with the City Clerk within ten
days of the action.
   (B)   The appeal shall identify the action being appealed, specify why the
appellant is dissatisfied with the action and recommend an alternative action.
   (C)   The Clerk shall set the matter for hearing before the City Council
within 30 days of the date of filing the appeal. The Director of Community
Development, the subdivider and the appellant, if other than the subdivider,
shall be given at least ten days’ notice of the Council’s hearing.
   (D)   The City Council may affirm, reverse or modify any recommendations or
rulings of the Planning Commission, and may make such findings as it deems
appropriate. If only one or a limited number of conditions are being appealed,
the Council need not limit its review to those specific conditions, but may
review the whole action taken by the Planning Commission. The Council shall
render its decision on the appeal within seven days of the conclusion of its
hearing.
   (E)   An appeal, once filed, may be withdrawn only with the consent of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-260) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-261 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 9-1-262 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 6. STANDARDS OF DESIGN **
§ 9-1-263 CONFORMANCE WITH STANDARDS OF DESIGN.
   Subdivisions shall be designed in conformance with the standards of design
set out in this article. Deviations from these standards may be requested
pursuant to §
9-1-291.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-263) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-264 CONSISTENCY WITH GENERAL PLAN AND SPECIFIC PLANS.
   Subdivisions shall be designed and improved so as to be consistent with the
adopted city’s general plan and any applicable adopted specific plan, and the
objectives, policies and general land uses and programs specified therein.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-264) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-265 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING CODE.
   Subdivisions shall be designed in such a manner that all proposed lots
comply with applicable zoning regulations in a manner that will permit the
establishment of the proposed uses without further deviations or variances as
stated in §
9-1-254.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-265) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-266 BOUNDARY LINES.
   (A)   Tentative map boundaries shall be drawn so as to include all of the
area of all abutting parcels which are owned by the same property owner and
proposed for boundary alteration. However, when any land is proposed to be
divided in such a way that the subdivision will include a portion of such land,
any portion with a contiguous gross area of five acres or more which is not
proposed to be included within the subdivision may be identified by reference
on the tentative map.
   (B)   A portion of a tentative parcel map may be designated as a remainder
for the purpose of an exception to the survey requirements, in compliance with
the following provisions:
      (1)   Any remainder shall have a gross area of five acres or more;
      (2)   Any remainder so designated shall not be considered to be a
building site; and
      (3)   Any remainder so designated shall not be improved with any building
or structure that is subject to the requirements of the adopted 2025 California
Building Code and related codes.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever a parcel of real property lies partially within the
city and partially within an unincorporated area, any proposal to subdivide
such real property shall be consistent with existing city boundaries.
      (2)   No lot or parcel, except proposed public or private street rights-
of-way, shall be partially within the city and partially within an
unincorporated area.
      (3)   Any portion of such real property lying within any unincorporated
area shall be included on the tentative map for the purpose of showing the
remainder parcel, but any approving action on the tentative map by the city
shall not be construed as approval of any design or improvements shown within
the unincorporated area.
   (D)   Regardless of its size, no portion of any property shown on the latest
equalized county assessment roll as a unit or contiguous units shall be
excluded from within the boundaries of a subdivision for the purpose of
avoiding dedication or improvement of any street, drainage or flood control
facility.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-266) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Applicable related codes, see §
8-1-12
§ 9-1-267 LOTS AND PARCELS.
   (A)   Each lot or parcel being created by a subdivision shall be either
numbered or lettered. If it is numbered, it must comply with the requirements
of a building site as defined in Subchapter 2.
   (B)   Lettered lots or parcels may not be used as building sites and need
not comply with the requirements for a building site.
   (C)   Lettered lots other than streets shall be labeled as to their intended
use. Numbered lots may be labeled as to their intended use.
   (D)   A numbered lot which is platted so that it is in more than one zoning
district shall comply with area and width requirements of the zoning district
having the greater requirements.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-267) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-268 ARTERIAL HIGHWAYS.
   If an existing or proposed arterial highway or transportation corridor, as
shown on the master plan of arterial highways (a component of the circulation
element of the city’s general plan), is located so that any portion of such
highway lies within or adjacent to a subdivision, the highway or corridor shall
be shown on the map in a width and in an alignment corresponding to the Master
Plan of Arterial Highways, and the highway or corridor shall be designed in
accordance with the standard plans or applicable specific plan adopted by the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-268) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-269 PRIVATE STREETS.
   Private streets shall be permitted, pursuant to conditions specified in the
Subdivision Manual, only when the local agency finds that the occupants of the
subdivision will be better served and the welfare of the general public will
not be impaired thereby.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-269) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-270 RESTRICTED ACCESS TO HIGHWAYS.
   Subdivisions shall be designed so as to limit vehicular access to highways
shown on the master plan of arterial highways.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-270) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-271 STREET WIDTHS.
   Subdivisions shall be designed in conformance with the standard plans
adopted by the City Council, except:
   (A)   Streets in residential districts requiring a building site area of
15,000 square feet or more and where no sidewalks are to be installed shall
have a right-of-way that will provide a parkway width of at least four feet;
   (B)   Private streets serving four or less parcels as access to a public
street shall provide for a minimum pavement width of 16 feet within a minimum
20-foot-wide right-of-way;
   (C)   Private streets serving five parcels or more as access to a public
street shall provide for a minimum pavement width of 28 feet within a minimum
40-foot-wide right-of-way; and
   (D)   Streets in a subdivision which provides an approved alternate
pedestrian circulation system shall have rights-of-way that will provide a
minimum parkway width of at least four feet.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-271) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-272 DEAD-END OR CUL-DE-SAC STREETS.
   Dead-end streets shall be terminated by a turnaround having a diameter which
will maintain a parkway width uniform with that of the street. No such dead-end
street shall exceed a length of 1,000 feet measured along the centerline
thereof from the center point of the turnaround to its centerline intersection
with a through street.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-272) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-273 LOCAL STREET, HIGHWAY AND DRIVEWAY GRADES.
   Local street and highway grades shall be no less than 1%, reverse grade
vertical curves excepted. Private driveway grades shall be no less than 0.5%,
reverse grade vertical curves excepted. Highway grades shall not exceed 6%, and
local street grades shall not exceed 10%.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-273) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-274 CURVED LOCAL STREET AND HIGHWAY RADII.
   The centerline radii of curves on local streets or highways shall be not
less than:
   (A)   One thousand five hundred fifty feet on highways shown on the master
plan of arterial highways as major arterial highways;
   (B)   One thousand four hundred feet on highways shown on the master plan of
arterial highways as primary or secondary arterial highways;
   (C)   Five hundred fifty feet on collector streets; and
   (D)   Two hundred fifty feet on local streets.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-274) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-275 LOCAL STREET LENGTHS.
   Local streets shall not exceed 1,000 feet in length without a significant
change in alignment.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-275) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-276 LOCAL STREET AND HIGHWAY CORNER CUTOFFS AND CORNER RADII.
   All local street and highway corner cutoffs and corner radii shall be
designed in conformance with the standard plans as adopted by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-276) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-277 SIDEWALKS AND PEDESTRIAN WAYS.
   (A)   Sidewalks shall be designed in accordance with the standard plans
adopted by the City Council and located as follows:
      (1)   Along both sides of arterial highways;
      (2)   Along all commercial and industrial frontage;
      (3)   Along both sides of collector streets;
      (4)   Along residential frontage where the required minimum building site
area is less than 15,000 square feet and the lots have access to the street,
except in those instances where an alternate pedestrian circulation system is
proposed;
      (5)   Along all streets leading directly to a school, a designated school
bus stop or a park; and
      (6)   Where the sidewalk will provide a continuation or link between
other sidewalks.
   (B)   Additional pedestrian ways not abutting a street shall be provided
when necessary for access to schools, recreation and other public areas. These
pedestrian ways shall not be less than six feet in width.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-277) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-278 BICYCLE AND EQUESTRIAN TRAILS.
   Where the city’s general plan or any officially adopted specific or precise
plan designates a bikeway or equestrian trail as lying wholly or partially
within any proposed subdivision, the necessary right-of-way for the bikeway or
equestrian trail shall be shown on the map in compliance with such adopted
plans, and bikeways shall be designed in accordance with the standards adopted
by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-278) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-279 STREET LIGHTING.
   Street lighting shall be provided along and at the intersections of all
arterial highways and local streets in accordance with the illumination levels
specified in the standard plans, except as otherwise approved by the City
Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-279) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-280 UNDERGROUND UTILITY LINES.
   (A)   Utility lines, including, but not limited to, electric,
communications, street lighting and cable television, shall be required to be
placed underground within any new, revised or reactivated residential
subdivision. The subdivider is responsible for making the necessary
arrangements with the utility companies for the installation of such
facilities. For the purposes of this division (A), appurtenances and associated
equipment, such as, but not limited to, surface-mounted transformers, pedestal
mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets and concealed ducts in an underground
system, may be placed above ground within the street right-of-way where
sufficient right-of-way width exists so as not to pose a serious hazard to
pedestrian traffic. If approved by the Director of Community Development,
utility lines, the main purpose of which is to provide service to customers
outside of the original boundaries of the subdivision, and those utility lines
which were in service in the area covered by the tentative tract or tentative
parcel map prior to the filing of the tentative map, may be placed above
ground.
   (B)   Required underground utility lines may be located in street or alley
rights-of-way or along any lot line.
   (C)   Overhead utility lines shall be located at the rear of lots or parcels
where practical, and the poles supporting such overhead lines shall not be
installed within any street, alleyway, drainage easement or flood control
channel.
   (D)   Above-ground installation of utilities shall be permitted on a
temporary basis when such utilities are required during construction; provided,
however, that such utilities shall be removed or placed underground prior to
the final exoneration of street improvement bonds.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-280) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-281 SEWERS.
   All lots intended for development shall be connected to a sanitary sewer
system unless the health officer has determined that each lot is adequate to
accept a private septic system.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-281) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-282 DRAINAGE AND EROSION CONTROL.
   (A)   Tentative maps shall illustrate the existing and proposed manner in
which water drains onto, across and off of the land being subdivided, including
the facilities and easements necessary to accommodate the drainage.
   (B)   If a subdivider unnaturally concentrates or diverts surface water
running onto adjacent land, the map shall illustrate the manner in which such
water will be accepted and disposed of.
   (C)   If an existing or proposed flood control channel, as shown on an
officially adopted flood control plan, is located so that any portion of it
lies within or adjacent to a subdivision, the channel shall be illustrated on
the map as a lettered lot in a width and in an alignment corresponding to the
flood control plan.
   (D)   Where any lot is designed in such a manner that it will not drain with
a minimum 1% grade directly to a street or common drainage facility, it shall
be designed in a manner that will conform to the following criteria.
      (1)   Lots shall be designed in such a manner that human-made slopes are
not subject to sheet flow or concentrated runoff from either the same or an
adjacent lot.
      (2)   All water flowing down human-made slopes, except that falling on
each slope, shall be constrained within an approved drainage device.
      (3)   All water flowing from one lot to or across another lot shall be
within an approved drainage device located within a properly executed easement,
where appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-282) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-283 HUMAN-MADE SLOPES.
   (A)   Human-made slopes shall be designed so that they can be conveniently
maintained so as to minimize erosion, slope failure and unsightly conditions.
   (B)   This section does not apply to human-made slopes five feet in height
or less.
   (C)   All human-made slopes shall be shown on tentative maps and shall be
classified, labeled and designed as follows:
      (1)   Type A: those proposed to be maintained by a public agency or by a
group, such as a homeowners’ association, and which are located either adjacent
to an arterial highway or within a park, greenbelt or other public or common
open space area;
      (2)   Type B: those proposed to be maintained by a group, such as a
homeowners’ association, and which are located within or adjacent to individual
lots and which are not within a park, greenbelt or other public or common open
space area; and
      (3)   Type C: those proposed to be maintained by individuals and which
are located within individual lots in such a manner that they are inappropriate
for maintenance by a group, such as a homeowners’ association.
   (D)   Human-made slopes shall be designed to resemble natural terrain where
feasible, with a minimum of long, flat, inclined plane surfaces and acute
angles.
   (E)   Human-made slopes shall be no steeper than two feet horizontal to one
foot vertical.
   (F)   The maximum height of human-made slopes in excess of (steeper than)
five feet horizontal to one foot vertical shall be as follows:
      (1)   Type A: no maximum;
      (2)   Type B: 35 feet; and
      (3)   Type C: 20 feet.
   (G)   Human-made slopes shall not be constructed one on top of another or
combined in such a manner so that they exceed the maximum heights specified in
division (F) above. However, this limitation shall not apply to adjacent slopes
on land abutting the subdivision; provided there is a visual and physical break
of at least ten usable feet, exclusive of drainage facilities, between the top
of the lower slope and the toe of the upper slope.
   (H)   Lettered lots shall not include Type C slopes unless such slopes will
be directly visible from the probable building pad on the lot.
   (I)   Automatic irrigation systems shall be incorporated into the design of
Type A and Type B slopes. An irrigation system connected to the water system
serving the main use of the lot shall be incorporated into the design of Type C
slopes.
   (J)   The design of human-made slopes shall include landscaping in
accordance with the requirements of §
9-1-285.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-283) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-284 PARKS.
   Local parks shall be shown on the tentative map as required by the local
park code and in a manner consistent with the city’s general plan.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-284) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-285 LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING.
   The design of the areas listed in this section shall include appropriate
landscaping for aesthetic, noise suppression, fire protection and erosion
control purposes:
   (A)   Human-made slopes greater than five feet in height;
   (B)   Common areas;
   (C)   Roadway medians and parkway areas;
   (D)   Lots containing existing significant trees or other plants proposed to
be preserved;
   (E)   Fuel breaks; and
   (F)   Other open space areas.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-285) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-286 COASTAL ZONE SUBDIVISIONS.
   Any proposed subdivision lying wholly or partially within the coastal zone
shall be designed to comply with and implement the goals, policies and various
components of the land use plan of the applicable certified local coastal
program.
   (A)   All tentative tract maps and tentative parcel maps shall be processed
in compliance with the provisions of §
9-1-118, pertaining to the CD Coastal Development District, and with the
appropriate coastal zone regulations in any applicable specific plan, in
addition to the provisions of this subchapter. Each tentative tract and
tentative parcel map is considered to be a discretionary permit for purposes of
compliance with §
9-1-118 and with the appropriate coastal zone regulations in any applicable
specific plan.
   (B)   Prior to the approval of any tentative tract or parcel map, the
advisory agency shall make the following finding in addition to the findings
required by §§
9-1-255 and
9-1-256: “The tentative map is consistent with the applicable certified land
use program and with the approved coastal development permit.” If this finding
is not made and if a coastal development permit has not been approved, the
tentative map shall not be approved. However, an application for a coastal
development permit may accompany the tentative map and be processed
concurrently with the map.
   (C)   (1)   When the certified local coastal program indicates the location
of a public accessway or of any permanent open space or conservation area
within the boundaries of a proposed subdivision, such accessway, open space or
conservation area shall be shown on the tentative map. When an accessway, open
space or conservation area is already in existence at the time a tentative map
is filed, the status of such accessway, open space or area, whether public or
private, and the OR number, if dedicated to the city, shall be identified on
the map. When the exact location of a proposed accessway, open space or
conservation area is not known at the time the tentative map is filed, a
reservation, not to exceed one and one-half times the actual accessway, open
space or conservation area, may be shown, accompanied with a statement that the
accessway, open space or conservation area will be located within the
reservation area shown. The tentative map shall indicate whether the proposed
accessway, open space or conservation area is to be private or public, whether
it is in compliance with the local coastal program, and who will be responsible
for the operation and maintenance of such accessway, open space or conservation
area. Prior to recordation of the final map, the offer of dedication or
easement for the accessway, open space or conservation areas that are proposed
to be dedicated to the city shall be submitted to the Director of Community
Development.
      (2)   Within 15 working days after the documents have been submitted to
the Director of Community Development, the advisory agency shall make the
following findings, if appropriate:
      (a)   The exact location of the accessway, open space or conservation
area is within the reserved area shown on the approved tentative map;
      (b)   The accessway, open space or conservation area is consistent with
the land use plan of the certified local coastal program; and
      (c)   All of the proposed language of the document, including any
accompanying maps and conditions, complies with all applicable policies and
programs of the city.
   (D)   When a tentative map accompanies or follows a coastal development
permit, the period of validity of the approval of the tentative map, and of any
extension of time, shall be concurrent with the period of time during which the
coastal development permit or any extension thereof is valid.
   (E)   After the final map and the dedication documents have been recorded,
the Director of Community Development shall forward a copy of the recorded
documents, together with a copy of the approved tentative map, a copy of the
coastal development permit and all applicable conditions and findings of
approval to the Executive Director of the Coastal Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-286) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-287 RIVERS AND STREAMS.
   (A)   Any proposed subdivision fronting upon a public waterway, river or
stream shall be designed so as to provide reasonable public access by fee or
easement from a public highway to and along that portion of the bank of the
river or stream bordering or lying within the proposed subdivision. The extent,
width and character of the public easement shall be reasonably defined to
achieve reasonable public use of the public waterway, river or stream
consistent with public safety.
   (B)   The governmental entity to which the access route will be offered for
dedication shall be indicated on the map.
   (C)   In determining what is reasonable public access, the following factors
shall be considered:
      (1)   That the easement may be for a foot trail, bicycle trail or horse
trail;
      (2)   The size of the subdivision;
      (3)   The type of riverbank and the various appropriate recreational,
educational and scientific uses, including, but not limited to, swimming,
boating, diving, fishing, waterskiing, scientific collection and teaching; and
      (4)   The likelihood of trespass on private property and reasonable means
of avoiding such trespass.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-287) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-288 LAKES AND RESERVOIRS.
   (A)   Any proposed subdivision fronting upon any lake or reservoir which is
owned in part or entirely by a public agency shall be designed so as to provide
reasonable public access by fee or easement from a public highway to the water
of the lake or reservoir upon which the subdivision borders, either within the
subdivision or a reasonable distance from the subdivision.
   (B)   The governmental entity to which the access route will be offered for
dedication shall be indicated on the map.
   (C)   In determining what is reasonable public access, the following factors
shall be considered:
      (1)   That access may be by highway, foot trail, bike trail, horse trail
or any other means of travel;
      (2)   The size of the subdivision;
      (3)   The type of shoreline and the various appropriate recreational,
educational and scientific uses, including, but not limited to, swimming,
diving, boating, fishing, waterskiing, scientific exploration and teaching;
      (4)   The likelihood of trespass on private property and reasonable means
of avoiding such trespass.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-288) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-289 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Any subdivision proposed to be located in an area shown in the safety
element to be a high or extreme fire hazard area shall provide appropriate fire
protection by means of firebreaks, fuel modification programs, access roads,
sufficient water supply, landscaping and open spaces and such other methods
that the Fire Chief has determined will ensure the public health, safety and
welfare of the future occupants of the subdivision and the adjacent area.
   (B)   The design of any required fuel modification program shall include
landscape architectural planning encompassing visual quality standards,
watershed impact and erosion control and wildlife impact and other design
features described in the fire hazard reduction design criteria. The program
shall include provisions for landscape architectural construction observation,
inspection and maintenance.
   (C)   The cost of the design and implementation of any fuel modification
program shall be the responsibility of the subdivider.
   (D)   A method or procedure for ensuring continued maintenance of any
required fuel modification program shall be provided by the subdivider and
approved by the Fire Chief and the Director of Community Development.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-289) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-290 DANGEROUS CONDITIONS TO BE REMOVED OR CONTROLLED.
   (A)   Areas proposed to be subdivided which are known to be dangerous by
reason of geological conditions, unstable subsurface conditions, groundwater or
seepage conditions, flood hazard, inundation or erosion by the ocean or any
other dangerous conditions shall be approved for subdivision only when the
Subdivision Committee finds that such conditions or hazards are to be removed
or that appropriate measures or controls will be applied which will ensure
adequate protection to the subject property and to surrounding uses and
improvements.
   (B)   Areas proposed for subdivision in FP-1, FP-2 and FP-3 Districts, as
defined in §
9-1-113, pertaining to the FP Floodplain District regulations, shall provide
for flood protection meeting the criteria set forth in the regulations for all
building sites. Flood elevation data adequate for such determination shall be
provided for all subdivision proposals adjacent to or encroaching into FP
Districts as provided in §
9-1-113.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-290) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-291 DEVIATIONS FROM STANDARDS OF DESIGN.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may approve tentative maps which deviate from
the standards of design contained in the following sections:
      (1)   Section
9-1-267 Lots and parcels;
      (2)   Section
9-1-268 Arterial highways;
      (3)   Section
9-1-270 Restricted access to highways;
      (4)   Section
9-1-271 Street widths;
      (5)   Section
9-1-272 Dead-end or cul-de-sac streets;
      (6)   Section
9-1-273 Local street, highway and driveway grades;
      (7)   Section
9-1-274 Curved local street and highway radii;
      (8)   Section
9-1-276 Local street and highway corner cutoffs and corner radii;
      (9)   Section
9-1-277 Sidewalks and pedestrian ways;
      (10)   Section
9-1-278 Bicycle and equestrian trails;
      (11)   Section
9-1-279 Street lighting;
      (12)   Section
9-1-280 Underground utility lines;
      (13)   Section
9-1-283 Human-made slopes;
      (14)   Section
9-1-285 Landscaping and screening; and
      (15)   Section
9-1-289 Fire protection.
   (B)   The deviations from the standards of design contained in the sections
listed in division (A) above shall be identified by a note on the face of the
tentative map, and the subdivider shall submit evidence of justification for
each deviation.
   (C)   Special circumstances which may be cited to justify a deviation from
the standards of design listed in division (A) above include, but are not
limited to, the character of the community, alternative means of pedestrian
circulation, environmental considerations, physical constraints, existing
nearby uses and a limited amount of ultimate traffic.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall take specific action on each requested
deviation. Deviations not specifically approved shall be considered to be
disapproved.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-291) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 16,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-292 AREAS IN FLOODPLAINS.
   Areas proposed for subdivision in floodplains, as defined by §
9-1-421, shall comply with the following.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities,
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-292) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-293 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 9-1-294 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 7. DEDICATION **
§ 9-1-295 REQUIRED DEDICATION FOR PUBLIC USE OR BENEFIT.
   The Planning Commission may require the dedication to the public, to the
city or to such other public agency as may be appropriate, of all real property
or interest therein, both on- and off-site, required for public use or benefit,
including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Local streets, arterial highways and transportation corridors;
   (B)   Alleys;
   (C)   Trails, paths and pedestrian ways;
   (D)   Flood control facilities;
   (E)   Parks;
   (F)   Easements for landscaping maintenance;
   (G)   Public utility easements;
   (H)   Public transit facilities;
   (I)   Other public easements; and
   (J)   Accessways to the shoreline or to lakes and reservoirs as provided in
§§
9-1-286,
9-1-287 and
9-1-288.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-295) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 17,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-296 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP REQUIRED FOR PRIVATE USE OR BENEFIT.
   The Planning Commission may require that the items listed in §
9-1-295 be deeded for private use or benefit to a homeowners’ association or
other responsible body.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-296) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 18,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-297 VEHICULAR ACCESS RIGHTS AND ABUTTERS’ RIGHTS TO ARTERIAL HIGHWAYS AND
LOCAL STREETS.
   Whenever specified by the Planning Commission, offers of dedication of
arterial highways or transportation corridors shall include the release and
relinquishment of vehicular access rights to and from such facilities from any
property shown within a final tract or parcel map abutting thereon. When the
local agency finds that there is a particular circulation problem on a local
street, release and relinquishment of access rights to and from the local
street may be required.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-297) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 19,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-298 ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SITES.
   The subdivider submitting a tentative tract map may be required to dedicate
land for the elementary school facilities necessary to assure the residents of
the subdivision adequate public school service in accordance with the
requirements and procedures set forth in the Subdivision Map Act. Whenever the
Planning Commission imposes such a dedication requirement, it may concurrently
approve an alternate tentative map, to be effective if the school district
affected does not enter into a binding commitment within 30 days to accept the
dedication. A dedication pursuant to this section shall only be required at the
request of a school district made within 20 working days of the notice given
pursuant to §
9-1-248.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-298) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 20,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-299 METHOD OF DEDICATION.
   Dedications and offers of dedication shall be made by a certificate on the
final tract or parcel map. Separate instruments may be used with the approval
of the Director of Community Development, when permitted by law and when the
subdivider intends to dedicate or offer for dedication real property prior to
the approval of a final tract or parcel map.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-299) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-300 EXCEPTIONS.
   Dedications required by § 9-1-295 shall not be required for any remainder
parcel which is sufficient as to size and shape to be further divided in
compliance with applicable zoning regulations; provided the Planning Commission
determines that such dedications and improvements are not necessary immediately
for public use or benefit and that the property owner will not be excused from
a requirement to dedicate and install necessary improvements at a later time.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-300) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 21,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-301 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 8. IMPROVEMENTS MONUMENTATION AND SECURITY **
§ 9-1-302 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall grade and improve or agree to grade and improve
all land shown on the final tract or parcel map for those dedications listed in
§
9-1-295 in compliance with the requirements of the approved tentative map, in
such a manner and with such improvements as are necessary for the general use
of the lot or parcel owners in the subdivision and local traffic and drainage
needs, as a condition precedent to the approval and acceptance of the final
tract or parcel map. All elevations shall be based on the current County
Surveyor vertical datum. The grading plans and improvement plans shall make
reference to the benchmark and elevation used for the design and engineering.
   (B)   The subdivider may be required to improve or agree to improve those
dedications which are necessary or convenient to ensure conformity to or
implementation of the city’s general plan.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-302) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-303 SUBDIVISIONS OF FOUR OR LESS PARCELS.
   (A)   (1)   Required improvements for subdivisions of four or less parcels
shall be noticed by a certificate on the final parcel map or the instrument
evidencing waiver of the parcel map.
      (2)   Except as otherwise specified in division (C) below, the
certificate shall include a requirement for fulfillment of such improvements
prior to issuance of any building permit or other grant of approval for
development of the parcel, or for installation of the improvements at such
earlier time as provided in the agreement.
   (B)   (1)   The agreement required by §
9-1-306 shall be entered into prior to the County Surveyor’s approval of the
parcel map for recordation, or prior to granting a waiver of the parcel map.
      (2)   Except as otherwise specified in division (C) below, the agreement
shall provide for installation of the improvements prior to the granting of any
building permit or other grant of approval for development of the parcel, or
for the installation of the improvements at such earlier time as provided in
the agreement.
   (C)   The requirements for installation of the improvements prior to
issuance of building permits may be omitted from a parcel map when such a
requirement is not a condition of approval of the parcel map or waiver of
parcel map.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-303) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-304 STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Improvements shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
standards of design contained in Subchapter 3, Article 6, the standard plans
and any other applicable standards adopted by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-304) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-305 IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   All improvement plans of improvements to be installed within or supplemental
to the final tract or parcel map must be approved by the appropriate agency
prior to approval of the final tract or parcel map.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-305) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-306 AGREEMENTS IN LIEU OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   If any improvements are not completed satisfactorily or any monuments not
set before the final tract or parcel map is approved, the subdivider shall
enter into an agreement with the City Council whereby, in consideration of the
approval by the city of the final tract or parcel map, the subdivider agrees to
perform and to furnish the equipment and material necessary to complete the
required work within the time specified in the agreement. Such agreement shall
be accompanied by security as provided in §
9-1-308, pertaining to improvement security, and §
9-1-310, pertaining to monumentation.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-306) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-307 PLAN CHECKING, ENGINEERING AND INSPECTION FEES.
   Subdividers submitting detailed plans and specifications for approval
required by §
9-1-305 shall pay plan checking, engineering and inspection fees as established
by resolution of the City Council, including the following:
   (A)   An engineering fee to be paid prior to approval by the city engineer;
and
   (B)   An inspection fee to be paid prior to starting construction of bonded
improvements at then-applicable rates.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-307) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-308 IMPROVEMENT SECURITY.
   (A)   Security in the form specified by the Subdivision Map Act shall be
furnished with every improvement agreement.
   (B)   The amount of the security shall be as follows:
      (1)   If bonds are furnished by one of the authorized corporate sureties:
         (a)   A performance bond in the amount of 100% of the estimated cost
of the improvement; and
         (b)   A payment bond in the amount of 100% of the estimated cost of
the improvement.
      (2)   If money, instrument of credit or negotiable bonds are furnished,
100% of the estimated cost of the improvement. The money, instrument of credit
or negotiable bonds shall apply to both faithful performance and payment to the
contractor, subcontractors, laborers, material workers and other persons
employed in the performance of the agreement.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-308) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-309 RELEASE OF SECURITY.
   The Director of Community Development is authorized to release security in
accordance with the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-309) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-310 MONUMENTATION.
   (A)   Monuments shall be set for each tract and parcel map in accordance
with the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and in accordance with the rules
and procedures approved by the City Engineer.
   (B)   The agreement referred to in §
9-1-306 shall be accompanied by security in a sum not less than the cost of
setting such monuments.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-310) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-311 EXTENSION OF TIME.
   The Director of Community Development is authorized to grant an extension of
time to the agreement as specified in §
9-1-306, if, in their opinion, a delay in the completion of the improvements is
justified and the delay will not cause substantial inconvenience to the general
public.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-311) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 9-1-312, 9-1-313 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 9. FEES IN LIEU OF DEDICATION OR IMPROVEMENT **
§ 9-1-314 LOCAL PARK FEES.
   Local park fees shall be paid as required by the local park code.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-314) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Local park code, see §§
9-1-500 et seq.
§ 9-1-315 DRAINAGE FEES.
   (A)   The City Council may from time to time, after a public hearing and
written notice to the owners of property therein, adopt master plans of
drainage for various areas of the city. Such plans shall contain an estimate of
the total costs of constructing the local drainage facilities required by the
plan, and a map of the area showing its boundaries and the location of the
planned facilities.
   (B)   Upon filing of a final tract or parcel map and as a condition of
approval of the final tract or parcel map, a drainage fee shall be paid to the
City Council for deposit in a Local Drainage Facilities Fund in the amount set
forth in the legislative action adopting and establishing a master plan of
drainage, if any, within which any portions of the subdivision may lie. Such
charges and fees collected as a condition of subdivision approval shall be
referred to in this subchapter as drainage fees. If local drainage facilities
are being constructed by the subdivider in conjunction with the subdivider’s
improvements, an agreement to construct the local drainage facilities may be
accepted in lieu of part or all payment of drainage fees.
   (C)   The funds derived from the drainage fees shall be used for purposes of
defraying the cost of designing and constructing planned local drainage
facilities for the removal of surface water and stormwater from the local
drainage area described in such master plan of drainage.
   (D)   The City Council, in adopting a master plan of drainage, shall find
and determine that the subdivision and development of property will require
construction of the facilities described in the master plan and that the
drainage fees are fairly apportioned within the local drainage area, both on
the basis of benefits conferred on property proposed for subdivision and on the
need for local drainage facilities within such area which would be assessable
on such property if such costs were apportioned uniformly on a per-acre basis.
   (E)   The fee as to any property proposed for subdivision within an area
covered by a master plan of drainage shall not exceed the pro rata share of the
amount of the total estimated cost of all facilities within such area which
would be assessable on such property if such costs were apportioned uniformly
on a per-acre basis.
   (F)   Drainage fees required by this section shall be paid into a Local
Drainage Facilities Fund. A separate fund shall be established within each
local drainage area. Monies in such funds shall be expended for engineering and
administrative services to obtain design of local drainage facilities by a duly
registered civil engineer of those local drainage facilities within the planned
local drainage area from which the fees comprising the fund were collected.
   (G)   At the discretion of the City Council, rights-of-way dedication,
actual construction and design by a duly registered civil engineer, and payment
of plan check, engineering and inspection fees for the improvement of local
drainage facilities described in a duly adopted master plan of drainage may be
accepted in lieu of the payment of drainage fees.
   (H)   Monies may be advanced by the city from its General Fund or other
sources to pay the cost of local drainage facilities within a local drainage
area having a duly adopted master plan of drainage, and subsequently such
monies advanced may be reimbursed from the Local Drainage Facilities Fund for
the local drainage area in which the drainage facilities described in the
master plan were constructed.
   (I)   When required for the implementation of a duly adopted master plan of
drainage so as to provide adequate drainage for a subdivision, an agreement may
be entered into between the subdivider and city whereby the subdivider may
advance funds for local drainage facilities within a local drainage area;
provided that the sole security for payment of funds or other consideration
advanced shall be monies subsequently accruing to a local drainage facilities
fund for the local drainage area in which the facilities are constructed.
Reimbursement shall be for the amount advanced only and shall not include
interest or other charges.
   (J)   After completion of the facilities and the payment of all claims from
any Planned Local Drainage Facilities Fund, the City Council shall determine,
by resolution, the amount of surplus, if any, remaining in any of such funds.
Any such surplus shall be used, in such amounts as the City Council may
determine, for one or more of the following purposes:
      (1)   For transfer to the General Fund of the city; provided that the
amount of such transfer shall not exceed 5% of the total amount expended from
the particular fund;
      (2)   For the construction of additional or modified facilities within
the particular drainage or sanitary sewer area; or
      (3)   As a refund in the manner provided in division (K) below.
   (K)   Any surplus remaining in a Planned Local Drainage Facilities Fund
shall be refunded as follows.
      (1)   There shall be refunded to the current owners of property for which
a fee was previously collected the balance of such monies in the same
proportion which each individual fee collected bears to the total of all
individual fees collected from the particular drainage or sewer area.
      (2)   Where property for which a fee was previously collected has
subsequently been subdivided into more than one lot, each current owner of a
lot shall share in the refund payable to the owners of the property for which a
fee was previously collected in the same proportion which the area of each
individual lot bears to the total area of the property for which a fee was
previously collected.
      (3)   There shall be transferred to the General Fund of the city any
remaining portion of the surplus which has not been paid to or claimed by the
persons entitled thereto within two years from the date either of the
completion of the improvements or the adoption by the City Council of a
resolution declaring a surplus, whichever occurs later.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-315) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-316 MAJOR THOROUGHFARE AND BRIDGE FEE.
   (A)   A subdivider, as a condition of approval of a final parcel map, or a
building permit applicant, as a condition of issuance of a building permit,
shall pay a fee as established in this section to defray the cost of
constructing bridges over waterways, railways, freeways and canyons or
constructing major thoroughfares.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AREA OF BENEFIT. A specified area wherein it has been determined that the
real property located therein will benefit from the construction of a major
thoroughfare or bridge project.
      BRIDGE FACILITIES. Those locations identified in the transportation or
flood control provisions of the circulation element or other element of the
city’s general plan as requiring a bridge to span a waterway, a railway,
freeway or canyon. Should the city not have a general plan in effect, then,
until such time as such a general plan is adopted, the term BRIDGE FACILITIES
shall mean those locations identified in the transportation or flood control
provisions of the circulation element or other element of the general plan of
the county as that plan existed on December 1, 1989.
      CONSTRUCTION. Has the same meaning as the definition of that term in
California Government Code, § 66484.3.
      MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. Those roads designated as transportation corridors
and major, primary, secondary or commuter highways on the master plan of
arterial highways in the circulation element of the city’s general plan. Should
the city not have a general plan in effect, then, until such time as such a
general plan is adopted, the term MAJOR THOROUGHFARE shall mean those roads
designated as transportation corridors and major, primary, secondary or
commuter highways on the master plan of arterial highways in the circulation
element of the general plan of the county as that plan existed on December 1,
1989. The primary purpose of such roads is to carry through traffic and provide
a network connecting to and including the state highway system.
   (C)   The provisions in this section for payment of a fee shall apply only
if the major thoroughfare or bridge facility has been included in an element of
the general plan adopted by the City Council at least 30 days prior to the
filing of the map or application for a building permit and on land located
within the boundaries of the area of benefit. Should the city not have a
general plan in effect, then, until such time as such a general plan is
adopted, the provisions in this section for the payment of a fee shall apply
only if the major thoroughfare or bridge facility has been included in an
element of the general plan of the county as that plan existed on December 1,
1989.
   (D)   Payment of fees shall not be required, unless any major thoroughfares
are in addition to, or a widening or reconstruction of, any existing major
thoroughfares serving the area at the time of the adoption of the boundaries of
the area of benefit.
   (E)   Payment of fees shall not be required, unless a planned bridge
facility is an original bridge serving the area or in addition to an existing
bridge facility serving the area at the time of the adoption of the boundaries
of the area of benefit.
   (F)   Action to establish an area of benefit may be initiated by the City
Council upon its own motion or upon the recommendation of the Director of
Public Works. The City Council will set a public hearing for each proposed area
of benefit. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, including preliminary
information related to the boundaries of the area of benefit, estimated costs
and the method of fee apportionment, shall be given as specified in California
Government Code, § 66484.3.
   (G)   Public hearing and protests.
      (1)   At the public hearing, the City Council will consider the
testimony, written protest and other evidence. At the conclusion of the public
hearing, the City Council may, unless a majority written protest is filed and
not withdrawn as specified in division (G)(3) below, establish an area of
benefit. If established, the City Council shall adopt a resolution describing
the boundaries of the area of benefit, setting forth the costs, whether actual
or estimated, and the method of the apportionment. A certified copy of such
resolution shall be recorded with the County Recorder.
      (2)   Such apportioned fees shall be applicable to all property within
the area of benefit and shall be payable as a condition of approval of a final
map or as a condition of issuing a building permit for such property or
portions thereof. Where the area of benefit includes lands not subject to the
payment of fees pursuant to this section, the City Council shall make
provisions for payment of the share of improvement costs apportioned to such
lands from other sources.
      (3)   Written protests shall be received by the City Clerk any time prior
to the close of the public hearing. If written protests are filed by the owners
of more than one-half of the area of the property to be benefitted by the
improvement, and sufficient protests are not withdrawn so as to reduce the area
represented by the protest to less than one-half of the area to be benefitted,
then the proposed proceeding shall be abandoned and the City Council shall not,
for one year from the filing of such written protests, commence or carry on any
proceedings for the same improvement under the provisions of this section,
unless the protests are overruled by an affirmative vote of four-fifths of the
City Council. Any protests may be withdrawn by the owner making the protest, in
writing, at any time prior to the close of the public hearing.
      (4)   If any majority protest is directed against only a portion of the
improvement, then all further proceedings under the provisions of this section
to construct that portion of the improvement so protested against shall be
barred for a period of one year, but the City Council shall not be barred from
commencing new proceedings not including any part of the improvement so
protested against. Such proceedings shall be commenced by a new notice and
public hearing as set forth in division (F) below.
      (5)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the City Council, within
such one-year period, from commencing and carrying on new proceedings for the
construction of an improvement or a portion of the improvement so protested
against if it finds, by the affirmative vote of four-fifths of its members,
that the owners of more than one-half of the area of the property to be
benefitted are in favor of going forward with such improvement or portion
thereof.
   (H)   Fees paid pursuant to this section shall be deposited in a Planned
Bridge Facility or Major Thoroughfare Fund. A fund shall be established for
each planned bridge facility project or each planned major thoroughfare
project. If the area of benefit is one in which more than one bridge or major
thoroughfare is required to be constructed, a separate fund may be established
covering all of the bridge projects or major thoroughfares in the area of
benefit. If the area of benefit encompasses one or more bridges and one or more
thoroughfares and all lands within the area of benefit are subject to the same
proportionate fee for all bridges and thoroughfares, a single fund may be
established to account for fees paid. Monies in such funds shall be expended
solely for the construction or reimbursement for construction of improvements
serving the area to be benefitted and from which the fees comprising the fund
were collected, or to reimburse the city for the cost of constructing the
improvement.
   (I)   The City Council may approve the acceptance of consideration in lieu
of the payment of fees established in this section.
   (J)   The City Council may approve the advancement of money from the General
Fund or Road Fund to pay the cost of constructing the improvements covered in
this section, and may reimburse the General Fund or Road Fund for such advances
from planned bridge facility or major thoroughfare funds established pursuant
to this section.
   (K)   If the subdivider, as a condition of the approval of the subdivision,
or the building permit applicant, as a condition of the issuance of the
building permit, is required or desires to construct a bridge or major
thoroughfare, the City Council may enter into a reimbursement agreement with
the subdivider or building permit applicant. Such agreement may provide for
payments to the subdivider or applicant from the Bridge Facility or Major
Thoroughfare Fund covering that specific project to reimburse the subdivider or
applicant for costs not allocated to the subdivider’s or applicant’s property
in the resolution establishing the area of benefit. If the Bridge or Major
Thoroughfare Fund covers more than one project, reimbursement shall be made on
a pro rata basis reflecting the actual or estimated costs of the projects
covered by the fund.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-316) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-12, § 1,
passed 2-20-1990)
§§ 9-1-317—9-1-319 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 10. TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS **
§ 9-1-320 CERTIFICATE FROM COUNTY TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Prior to the filing of a final tract map with the City Council, the
subdivider shall file with the City Clerk a certificate from the County Tax
Collector stating that, according to the records of such office, there are no
liens against the subdivision or any part thereof for unpaid state, county,
municipal or local taxes or special assessments collected as taxes, except
taxes or special assessments collected as taxes not yet payable.
   (B)   As to taxes or special assessments collected as taxes which are a lien
but not yet payable, the subdivider shall file with the Clerk a certificate by
the County Tax Collector giving their estimate of the amount of taxes and
special assessments collected as taxes which are a lien but not yet payable.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-320) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-321 SECURITY FOR PAYMENT.
   Whenever any part of the subdivision is subject to a lien for taxes or
special assessments collected as taxes which are not yet payable, the final map
shall not be recorded until the owner or subdivider executes and files with the
City Clerk security conditioned upon the payment of all state, county,
municipal and local taxes and the current installment of principal and interest
of all special assessments collected as taxes, which at the time the final map
is recorded are a lien against the property, but which are not yet payable.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-321) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-322 APPORTIONMENT.
   The apportionment of security and delinquencies shall be handled in
accordance with the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-322) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 9-1-323—9-1-324 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 11. REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES FOR PARCEL MAPS **
§ 9-1-325 CONTENT AND FORM.
   The content and form of parcel maps shall be governed by the provisions of
the Subdivision Map Act and the Subdivision Manual. The Subdivision Committee
may require additional information to be filed or recorded simultaneously with
the map. The additional information shall be in the form of an additional map
sheet, which shall indicate its relationship to the map and contain a statement
that the additional information is for informational purposes. Such additional
information may include, but is not limited to, building setback lines, flood
hazard zones, seismic lines and setbacks, geologic mapping, archaeological
sites and possible boundary or title conflicts.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-325) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-326 FINAL PARCEL MAP REQUIRED.
   (A)   When a subdivision is proposed to be created through the tentative
parcel map process, a final parcel map shall be filed for record with the
County Recorder. No proposed subdivision shall be complete until such parcel
map has been filed for record, unless a waiver has been approved.
   (B)   A final parcel map, within commercial or industrial zoned areas,
identifying lease lines for tax purposes, may be filed for record with the
County Recorder without being required to comply with the tentative parcel map
requirements of this subchapter. Each parcel on such map shall be identified by
letter and shall not be considered to be a separate building site. No transfers
of fee title may be made in connection with such map. Identification shall be
shown on the face of such map as to its purpose that it does not create
building sites and that it does not permit transfer of fee title interest.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-326) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-327 SIGNATURES REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   When dedications or offers of dedications are made on the final
parcel map, all parties having any record title interest in the real property
being subdivided shall consent to the preparation and recordation of the final
parcel map by signing the required certificate. Such signatures shall be
properly acknowledged.
      (2)   The certificate need not be signed by public entities and public
utilities which own rights-of-way, easements or other interests which cannot
ripen into a fee; provided that:
         (a)   The Subdivision Committee determines that division and
development of the property in the manner set forth on the map will not
unreasonably interfere with the free and complete exercise of the public entity
or public utility right-of-way or easement;
         (b)   The map contains a statement that the Subdivision Committee has
determined that the division and development of the property in the manner set
forth on the map will not unreasonably interfere with the free and complete
exercise of the public entity or public utility right-of-way or easement; and
         (c)   The public entity or utility has been given the opportunity to
object to such a determination in accordance with the provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act.
   (B)   When dedications or offers of dedications are not being made, no
owners’ or subdividers’ signature shall be required on the parcel map.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-327) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-328 METHOD OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   Final parcel map. The final parcel map shall be submitted to the City
Engineer, who shall examine the map within 20 days of receipt thereof. If the
City Engineer is satisfied that the map is technically correct and conforms
with the approved tentative parcel map and any conditions imposed thereon, they
shall execute the certificate required by the Subdivision Map Act. Such
certification by the City Engineer shall constitute approval of the final
parcel map.
   (B)   Agreements and security. Whenever, as a condition of an approved
tentative parcel map, agreements or security are required for installation of
certain improvements, the agreements and security shall be approved by the City
Council prior to recordation of the final parcel map.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-328) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-329 FILING WITH COUNTY RECORDER.
   The City Engineer shall transmit the approved final parcel map to the County
Recorder for recordation, unless the surveyor, engineer or subdivider requests
an alternate time schedule for recordation.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-329) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-330 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 12. REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES FOR FINAL MAPS **
§ 9-1-331 CONTENT AND FORM.
   The content and form of final tract maps shall be governed by the provisions
of the Subdivision Map Act and the Subdivision Manual. The Subdivision
Committee may require additional information to be filed or recorded
simultaneously with the map. The additional information shall be in the form of
an additional map sheet, which shall indicate its relationship to the map and
contain a statement that the additional information is for informational
purposes. Such additional information may include, but is not limited to,
building setback lines, flood hazard zones, seismic lines and setbacks,
geologic mapping, archaeological sites and possible boundary or title
conflicts.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-331) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-332 FINAL TRACT MAP REQUIRED.
   When a subdivision is proposed to be created through the tentative tract map
process, a final tract map shall be filed for record with the County Recorder.
No proposed subdivision shall be complete until such tract map has been filed
for record.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-332) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-333 SIGNATURES REQUIRED.
   (A)   All parties having any record title interest in the real property
being subdivided shall consent to the preparation and recordation of the tract
map by signing the required certificate. Such signatures shall be properly
acknowledged.
   (B)   The certificate need not be signed by public entities and public
utilities which own rights-of-way, easements or other interests which cannot
ripen into a fee; provided that:
      (1)   Division and development of the property in the manner set forth on
the map will not unreasonably interfere with the free and complete exercise of
the public entity or public utility right-of-way or easement;
      (2)   The map contains a statement that the Subdivision Committee has
determined that the division and development of the property in the manner set
forth on the map will not unreasonably interfere with the free and complete
exercise of public entity or public utility right-of-way or easement; and
      (3)   The public entity or utility has been given an opportunity to
object to such a determination in accordance with the provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-333) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-334 METHOD OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   Final tract maps, together with any required improvement agreements
and security, shall be submitted to the Director of Community Development for
review and preliminary determination as to:
      (1)   Compliance with any conditions imposed on the approval of the
tentative map; and
      (2)   Substantial conformance with the approved tentative map and any
approved alterations thereof.
   (B)   If the Director determines that the subdivision is not in compliance
or substantial conformance, the Director shall, within ten days of the date the
final map was submitted, advise the subdivider in writing of their preliminary
determination. The subdivider may appeal the Director’s determination to the
Subdivision Committee, or directly to the City Council if the map was
originally approved on appeal to the City Council. Any such appeal shall be
heard within 15 days of the filing of such a request with the Director. Upon
hearing any such appeal, the Subdivision Committee or the City Council shall
make an advisory ruling to the City Engineer. The final determination as to
whether the final tract map is in compliance and substantial conformance shall
be made by the City Engineer.
   (C)   Within 20 days, or more if requested by the subdivider, after the
Director notifies the City Engineer that all conditions precedent to the
approval of the tract map have been satisfied and any required improvement
agreements and security are in order, the surveyor shall examine the map and,
if appropriate, shall execute the certificate required by the Subdivision Map
Act.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-334) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-335 FILING WITH THE CITY COUNCIL.
   After the City Engineer executes their certificate, they shall transmit the
tract map to the City Clerk. The Clerk shall present the map and any required
agreements, securities and approvals to the City Council for its approval and
execution of the certificate by the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-335) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-336 FILING WITH COUNTY RECORDER.
   The City Engineer shall transmit the approved final tract map to the County
Recorder for recordation unless the surveyor, engineer or subdivider requests
an alternate time schedule for recordation.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-336) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-337 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 13. WAIVERS AND EXCEPTIONS **
§ 9-1-338 WAIVERS AND EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED.
   When requested by the subdivider or by a governmental agency, waivers from
the requirement for recording a parcel map and exceptions to the tentative map
process may be approved by the Subdivision Committee in compliance with the
provisions of this article. When any such waiver request is approved, a
certificate of compliance may be recorded in lieu of a parcel map. The
requirement for recording a parcel map shall not be waived when the City
Engineer finds that a survey or monumentation is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-338) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-339 TYPES OF SUBDIVISIONS ELIGIBLE.
   Only the following types of subdivisions are eligible to receive a waiver
from the requirement for recording a parcel map:
   (A)   Subdivisions containing four or less parcels each of which is a
minimum of five acres in area and is proposed for further subdivision;
   (B)   Subdivisions wherein each parcel will have a gross area of 20 acres or
more and a right of vehicular access for a continuous width of not less than 40
feet to a maintained public street or highway having a right-of-way width of
not less than 40 feet; and
   (C)   Subdivisions wherein each parcel will have a gross area of not less
than 40 acres.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-339) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-340 WAIVER PROCEDURE.
   A waiver from the requirement for recording a parcel map may be approved in
compliance with the following procedure.
   (A)   A tentative map, accurately describing the existing legally created
parcel and each proposed parcel, shall be submitted. Such tentative map shall
be processed in compliance with the tentative map procedure, except that it
need not be prepared by a licensed land surveyor or civil engineer and need
include only such information that the Director of Community Development and
the Subdivision Committee find to be necessary in order to make the required
determinations.
   (B)   A waiver request shall accompany the tentative map. The exception to
the tentative map requirements specified in division (A) above is permitted
only when a tentative map proposes one of the subdivisions specified by §
9-1-339 and when such map is accompanied by a waiver request.
   (C)   Prior to any action by the Subdivision Committee to approve a waiver,
the Director shall examine the map and shall identify each proposed parcel as a
building site or a nonbuilding site.
   (D)   Prior to any action to approve a waiver, the Subdivision Committee
shall find that the subdivision:
      (1)   Will comply with city requirements as to area, improvement and
design, flood water drainage control, appropriate improved public roads,
sanitary disposal facilities, water supply availability and environmental
protection;
      (2)   Will satisfy any other requirements pertaining to the subdivision
of land as specified in the Subdivision Map Act, this subchapter and any other
applicable city ordinance; and
      (3)   Will not create any unnecessary conditions or situations that will
be incompatible with existing and possible future uses of adjacent properties.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-340) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-341 WAIVER DOES NOT ESTABLISH PARCELS.
   The approval of a waiver of the requirement to record a parcel map does not
create a subdivision or satisfy the requirements applicable to the division of
a parcel of land. Any parcels shown on a tentative map for which a parcel map
has been waived shall not be considered to be legally established until a
certificate of compliance for such parcels has been filed in the office of the
County Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-341) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-342 TIME LIMIT FOR RECORDING OF CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   A waiver of the requirement to record a parcel map is valid only for such
time as the subject tentative map is valid, and a waiver approval shall expire
concurrently with the expiration of the tentative map approval. After a waiver
has been approved and within the period of validity of a tentative map, and,
when the Director of Community Development has determined that all conditions
and requirements of the tentative map have been satisfied, they shall cause a
certificate of compliance to be recorded in compliance with the provisions of
Subchapter 3, Article 15. If any required conditions have not been satisfied, a
conditional certificate of compliance may be recorded within the specified time
period. Such conditional certificate of compliance shall contain a notice of
the conditions that are required to be satisfied prior to the recordation of a
certificate of compliance.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-342) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-343 WAIVER FOR NEW CONDOMINIUM PROJECT.
   The requirements of this subchapter are automatically waived when a new
condominium project is created or established on an existing building site.
This waiver is not applicable to an existing development project which is
converted to a condominium project.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-343) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
** ARTICLE 14. REVERSIONS TO ACREAGE **
§ 9-1-344 REVERSION AUTHORIZED.
   Subdivided real property may be reverted to acreage pursuant to the
provisions of the Subdivision Map Act, this article and the Subdivision Manual.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-344) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-345 CONTENT AND FORM OF PETITIONS.
   Petitions for reversion to acreage shall conform with such requirements as
to form and content as may be specified in the Subdivision Manual, and shall
include a final tract map. If the land to be reverted consists of four or less
contiguous parcels under the same ownership, a parcel map may be submitted in
lieu of the tract map. No reversion shall be complete until such map has been
filed for record with the County Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-345) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-346 SUBDIVISION COMMITTEE REVIEW.
   Petitions for reversion to acreage shall be reviewed by the Subdivision
Committee. It shall make recommendations thereon to the Director of Community
Development within 30 days of the date the petition was filed with the
Director. Thereafter, the Director shall transmit the petition and the
Subdivision Committee’s recommendations through the Planning Commission to the
City Clerk, who shall set the matter for public hearing before the City
Council. The Clerk shall publish a notice of the time and place of the hearing
in accordance with the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act, and give written
notice of the hearing to the petitioners.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-346) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-347 HEARING BY CITY COUNCIL.
   At the conclusion of the public hearing on a petition for reversion to
acreage, the City Council may make such findings, including those set forth in
the Subdivision Map Act, as the Council deems appropriate. If the Council
intends to approve the reversion to acreage, it shall impose the conditions
required by the Subdivision Map Act. If the proposed final or parcel map has
been approved by the City Engineer, the City Council may approve the reversion
and authorize transmitting the map to the County Recorder for recordation. The
Council may disapprove the proposed reversion or may continue the matter until
the final tract map or parcel map has been approved by the City Engineer.
Thereafter, the Council may approve the reversion and authorize transmitting
the map to the County Recorder for recordation. The City Engineer shall then
transmit the approved final tract or parcel map to the County Recorder for
recordation, unless the surveyor, engineer or subdivider requests an alternate
time schedule for recordation.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-347) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 9-1-348—9-1-350 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 15. CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE **
§ 9-1-351 APPROVAL.
   Certificates of compliance shall be approved by the Director of Community
Development, whereas conditional certificates of compliance shall be approved
by the Subdivision Committee.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-351) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-352 PROCEDURE.
   Requests for a certificate of compliance shall be processed and reviewed in
compliance with the provisions and procedures set forth in the Subdivision
Manual. No certificate of compliance or conditional certificate of compliance
shall be valid until it has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-352) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-353 APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any interested person may appeal to the City Council from any action
of the Director of Community Development on a certificate of compliance by
filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within 15 days of the action.
   (B)   The notice of appeal shall identify the action being appealed, specify
why the appellant is dissatisfied with the action and recommend an alternative
action.
   (C)   The Clerk shall set the matter for hearing before the City Council
within 30 days of the date of filing the appeal. The Director, the applicant
and the appellant, if other than the applicant, shall be given at least ten
days’ notice of the Council’s hearing.
   (D)   The City Council may affirm, reverse or modify any recommendations or
rulings of the Director, and may make such findings as it deems appropriate. If
only one or a limited number of conditions are being appealed, the Council need
not limit its review to those specific conditions, but may review the whole
action taken by the Director. The Council shall render its decision on the
appeal within seven days of the conclusion of its hearing.
   (E)   An appeal, once filed, may be withdrawn only with the consent of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-353) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-354 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 16. LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS **
§ 9-1-355 CRITERIA FOR ELIGIBILITY.
   Persons owning two or more adjacent parcels who propose to adjust the
boundaries of the parcels in a manner so that the land taken from one parcel is
added to an adjacent parcel and a greater number of parcels than originally
existed is not thereby created may apply for a lot line adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-355) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-356 APPLICATION, REVIEW, APPEAL AND RECORDATION.
   (A)   Applications for a lot line adjustment and the review and recordation
thereof shall conform with such requirements as to form, contents and process
as may be specified by the Director of Community Development in the Subdivision
Manual.
   (B)   Applications for lot line adjustments shall be reviewed by the
Subdivision Committee, which shall approve, conditionally approve or disapprove
the proposed lot line adjustment in writing (certificate of approval of lot
line adjustment). The Director of Community Development may determine on a
case-by-case basis that the public interest would be better served by a public
hearing in front of the Planning Commission. In such case, the lot line
adjustment shall be processed per §
9-1-253, pertaining to public hearings.
   (C)   Any person adversely affected by the decision of the Subdivision
Committee may appeal the decision to the Planning Commission by filing an
appeal with the Director of Community Development within ten calendar days of
the decision. The Director of Community Development shall bring the matter
before the Planning Commission for hearing within 30 calendar days after the
date of filing the appeal. The Planning Commission may affirm, conditionally
affirm or reverse the decision of the Subdivision Committee.
   (D)   Any person adversely affected by the decision of the Planning
Commission may appeal the decision to the City Council by filing an appeal with
the Director of Community Development within ten calendar days of the decision.
The Director of Community Development shall bring the matter before the City
Council for hearing within 30 calendar days after the date of filing the
appeal. The City Council may affirm, conditionally affirm or reverse the
decision of the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-356) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 22,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-357 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 17. NOTICES OF VIOLATION **
§ 9-1-358 TENTATIVE NOTICES OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Director of Community Development has information indicating
that real property has been divided in violation of the Subdivision Map Act or
this subchapter, they shall file for record with the County Recorder a
tentative notice of violation describing the real property in detail, naming
the owners thereof, describing the violation and stating that an opportunity
will be given to the owner to present evidence on the issue whether the
property has been divided in violation of the Subdivision Map Act or this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-358) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-359 RECEIPT OF EVIDENCE.
   Upon recordation of a tentative notice of violation pursuant to this
article, the Director of Community Development shall bring the matter before
the Planning Commission, which shall schedule a meeting at which evidence as to
why a final notice of violation should not be recorded may be presented. The
owner of the land in question shall be given at least 30 days’ written notice
of the meeting, unless the owner requests an earlier determination.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-359) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 23,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-360 PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION.
   (A)   If the Planning Commission determines that there has been no violation
as described in this article, the Director of Community Development shall file
for record a release of the tentative notice of violation with the County
Recorder.
   (B)   If the Planning Commission determines that there has been a violation,
or if, within 60 days of receipt of such copy, the owner of such real property
fails to inform the Director of their objection to recording the notice of
violation, the Director shall file a final notice of violation with the County
Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-360) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 91-48, § 24,
passed 11-5-1991)
§ 9-1-361 RELEASE BY CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   A notice of violation may be released by a certificate of compliance
pursuant to Subchapter 3, Article 15.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-361) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
** ARTICLE 18. MODIFICATIONS TO RECORDED MAPS **
§ 9-1-362 MODIFICATIONS AUTHORIZED.
   In addition to the amendments authorized by § 66469 of the California
Subdivision Map Act, being California Government Code, § 66469, and as
authorized by § 66472.1 of the Subdivision Map Act, being California Government
Code, § 66472.1, after a final tract map or final parcel map is filed in the
office of the County Recorder, such map may be modified by a certificate of
correction or an amending map. Said modification shall meet all of the
requirements of this article.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-362) (Ord. 98-104, § 2, passed 10-20-1998)
§ 9-1-363 MANDATORY FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Subdivision Committee shall review the proposed modifications and
shall make a recommendation to the City Council.
   (B)   The following mandatory findings must be made in order to approve a
modified final map:
      (1)   The proposed modification(s) is (are) in substantial compliance
with the final map for which the modifications are proposed;
      (2)   There are changes in circumstances which make any or all of the
conditions of such map no longer appropriate or necessary;
      (3)   The modification(s) does (do) not impose any additional burden on
the present fee owner of the property;
      (4)   The modification(s) does (do) not alter any right, title or
interest in the real property reflected on the recorded map; and
      (5)   The map as modified conforms to the required findings of approval
specified in § 66474 of the California Subdivision Map Act, being California
Government Code, § 66474.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-363) (Ord. 98-104, § 2, passed 10-20-1998)
§ 9-1-364 METHOD OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   After review and evaluation by the Subdivision Committee, the
Community Development Director shall forward the modified map along with a
report stating that the mandatory findings can be met to the City Engineer. The
City Engineer shall execute the amended map or a certificate of correction,
which shall be forwarded along with the Community Development Director’s report
to the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council shall conduct a public hearing in accordance with the
provisions of §
9-1-112.1 and California Government Code, § 66451.3 and make the findings
required under §
9-1-363. The public hearing shall be confined to consideration of and action on
the proposed modification(s).
(Prior Code, § 9-1-364) (Ord. 98-104, § 2, passed 10-20-1998)
§§ 9-1-365—9-1-400 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT ****
§ 9-1-401 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The legislature of the state has in California Government Code, §§
65302, 65560 and 65800 conferred upon local government units authority to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
of its citizenry.
   (B)   Therefore, the City Council does hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-401) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-402 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by uses that are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or protected from flood damage. The cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities also contribute to the flood loss.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-402) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-403 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone and sewer lines; and streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future blighted
areas caused by flood damage;
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area
of special flood hazard; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-403) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-404 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this subchapter includes methods and
provisions to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-404) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§§ 9-1-405—9-1-420 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 9-1-421 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure that is either:
      (1)   Solely for the parking of no more than two cars; or
      (2)   A small, low cost shed for limited storage, less than 150 square
feet and $1,500.00 in value.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ALLUVIAL FAN. A geomorphologic feature characterized by a cone or fan-shaped
deposit of boulders, gravel and fine sediments that have been eroded from
mountain slopes, transported by flood flows and then deposited on the valley
floors, and which is subject to flash flooding, high velocity flows, debris
flows, erosion, sediment movement and deposition and channel migration.
   APEX. The point of highest elevation on an alluvial fan, which on
undisturbed fans is generally the point where the major stream that formed the
fan emerges from the mountain front.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this subchapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet; a clearly
defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized
by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD-RELATED EROSION HAZARD. The land within a community
which is most likely to be subject to severe flood related erosion losses. The
area may be designated as Zone E on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   AREA OF SPECIAL MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) HAZARD. The area subject to severe
mudslides (i.e., mudflows). The area is designated as Zone M on the flood
insurance rate map (FIRM).
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD). BASE FLOOD is the term used
throughout this subchapter.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade, i.e., below
ground level on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALLS. Any type of walls, whether solid or lattice, and whether
constructed of concrete, masonry, wood, metal, plastic or any other suitable
building material which is not part of the structural support of the building
and which is designed to break away under abnormally high tides or wave action
without causing any damage to the structural integrity of the building on which
they are used or any buildings to which they might be carried by flood waters.
A BREAKAWAY WALL shall have a safe design loading resistance of not less than
ten and no more than 20 pounds per square foot. Use of BREAKAWAY WALLS must be
certified by a registered engineer or architect and shall meet the following
conditions:
      (1)   BREAKAWAY WALL collapse shall result from a water load less than
that which would occur during the base flood; and
      (2)   The elevated portion of the building shall not incur any structural
damage due to the effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously in the
event of the base flood.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CITY. The City of Laguna Niguel.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the city.
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. An area of special flood hazard extending from
off-shore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast and
any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources. It is an area subject to high velocity waters, including coastal and
tidal inundation or tsunamis. The area is designated on a flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) as Zone V1-V30, VE or V.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, fill,
excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain
which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD, FLOODING or FLOOD WATER.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e., mudflows) (see MUDSLIDES); and
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See FLOOD-
RELATED EROSION.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). The official map on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administration has
delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP. The official map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administration has delineated the areas
offload hazards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administration has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable
to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration that includes flood profiles, the flood insurance rate map, the
flood boundary and floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base
flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. See FLOODING.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This subchapter and other zoning
regulations, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances (such as grading and erosion control) and other
application of police power which control development in flood-prone areas.
This term describes federal, state or local regulations in any combination
thereof which provide standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and
damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOOD-RELATED EROSION. The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of
a lake or other body of water as a result of undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as a flash flood or
an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding.
   FLOOD-RELATED EROSION AREA or FLOOD-RELATED EROSION PRONE AREA. A land area
adjoining the shore of a lake or other body of water, which due to the
composition of the shoreline or bank and high water levels or wind-driven
currents, is likely to suffer flood related erosion damage.
   FLOOD-RELATED EROSION AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program
of corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood-related erosion
damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood-
related erosion control works and floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The area of the floodplain on either side of the
“regulatory floodway” where encroachment may be permitted.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. (as related to §§
9-1-461 through
9-1-463) Variances of this subchapter means that the variance granted must not
cause fraud on or victimization of the public. In examining this requirement,
the City Council will consider the fact that every newly constructed building
adds to government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50
to 100 years. Buildings that are permitted to be constructed below the base
flood elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage
from floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole
are subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger and suffering that those
increased flood damages bring. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose,
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers and ship building and ship repair
facilities, and does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of the city, which is empowered to adopt
and implement regulations to provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of its citizenry.
   HARDSHIP. (as related to §§
9-1-461 through
9-1-463) Variances of this subchapter means the exceptional hardship that would
result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The City Council
requires that the variance be exceptional, unusual and peculiar to the property
involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not exceptional.
Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal
preferences or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule,
qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be resolved
through other means without granting a variance, even if the alternative is
more expensive, or requires the property owner to build elsewhere or put the
parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior or
directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states with approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accord with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement. (See BASEMENT definition.)
      (1)   An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure below the lowest floor
that is usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an
area other than a basement area, is not considered a building’s lowest floor
provided it conforms to applicable non-elevation design requirements,
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   The wet floodproofing standard in §
9-1-451(C)(3);
         (b)   The anchoring standards in §
9-1-451(A);
         (c)   The construction materials and methods standards in §
9-1-451(B); and
         (d)   The standards for utilities in §
9-1-452.
      (2)   For residential structures, all subgrade enclosed areas are
prohibited as they are considered to be basements. (See BASEMENT definition.)
This prohibition includes below-grade garages and storage areas.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   MUDSLIDE. (i.e., MUDFLOW) Describes a condition where there is a river, flow
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, means structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of
floodplain management regulations adopted by this community, and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by this community.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation,
channelization, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel,
refuse, fill, structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or
projecting into any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the
direction and/or velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its
propensity to snare or collect debris by the flow of water or its likelihood of
being carried downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD or 100-YEAR FLOOD. See BASE FLOOD.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE. A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge of
sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward and
adjacent to the beach and subject to erosion and overtopping from high tides
and waves during major coastal storms. The inland limit of the primary frontal
dune occurs at the point where there is a distinct change from a relatively
mild slope.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. (as related to §§
9-1-461 through
9-1-463) Variances of this subchapter means that the granting of a variance
must not result in anything which is injurious to safety or health of an entire
community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, or unlawfully
obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable
lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state or local floodplain management regulations, or, if this
is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impacts
may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development
from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the subchapter
or otherwise deterring future similar violations or reducing state or federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SAND DUNES. Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounds
landward of the beach.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). An area having special flood, mudslide
(i.e., mudflow) or flood-related erosion hazards, and shown on an FHBM or FIRM
as zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99, AH, E, M, V1-V30, VE or V.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the building permit was issued; provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days from the date of the permit.
The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage
of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground;
this includes a gas or liquid storage tank or a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other proposed new development of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the “start of
construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations or state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   V ZONE. See COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this subchapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
subchapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this subchapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate, other certifications or other evidence of compliance
required in this subchapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-421) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997; Ord. 2008-150, § 2, passed 1-15-2008)
§§ 9-1-422—9-1-430 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS **
§ 9-1-431 LANDS TO WHICH THIS SUBCHAPTER APPLIES.
   This subchapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-431) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-432 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration (FIA) of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in the
county and incorporated areas in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) dated March
21, 2019, and accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) dated November 3,
1993, and all subsequent amendments and/or revisions, are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this subchapter. This FIS and attendant
mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this subchapter and may be
supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of this
subchapter and which are recommended to the City Council by the Floodplain
Administrator. The study and FIRMs are on file in the office of the Floodplain
Administrator at 30111 Crown Valley Parkway, Laguna Niguel, Community
Development Department.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-432) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-433 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the term of this subchapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein shall prevent the
City Council from taking such lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-433) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-434 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This subchapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this subchapter and
another article, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-434) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-435 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this subchapter shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-435) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-436 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this subchapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This subchapter does
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This
subchapter shall not create liability on the part of the city, the City
Council, any officer or employee of the city, the state or the Federal
Insurance Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this subchapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-436) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-437 SEVERABILITY.
   This subchapter and the various parts thereof are hereby declared to be
severable. Should any section of this subchapter be declared by the courts to
be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the subchapter as a whole, or any portion thereof, other than the section
declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-437) (Ord. 2008-150, § 3, passed 1-15-2008)
§§ 9-1-438—9-1-440 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 2. ADMINISTRATION **
§ 9-1-441 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or
other development begins within any area of special flood hazard established in
§
9-1-432. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator and may include, but not be limited to: plans
in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevation of the area in question; existing or proposed structures; fill;
storage of materials; drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all structures in zone AO, elevation of highest
adjacent grade and proposed elevation of lowest floor of all structures; or
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure will be floodproofed, if required in §
9-1-451(C)(3);
      (3)   All appropriate certifications listed in §
9-1-443(D); and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-441) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-442 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Community Development Director is hereby appointed to administer,
implement and enforce this subchapter by granting or denying development
permits in accord with its provisions.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-442) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-443 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following.
   (A)   Permit review. Review all development permits to determine that:
      (1)   Permit requirements of this subchapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
      (3)   The site is reasonably safe from flooding; and
      (4)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of areas where base flood elevations have been determined but a
floodway has not been designated. For purposes of this subchapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
   (B)   Development of substantial improvement and substantial damage
procedures.
      (1)   Using FEMA publication FEMA 213, “Answers to Questions About
Substantially Damage to Buildings”, develop detailed procedures for identifying
and administering requirements for substantial improvements and substantial
damage to include defining “market value”.
      (2)   Assure procedures are coordinated with other departments/divisions
and implemented by community staff.
   (C)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood elevation
data has not been provided in accordance with §
9-1-432, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
9-1-451 through
9-1-459. Any such information shall be submitted to the City Council for
adoption.
   (D)   Notification of other agencies.
      (1)   Alteration or relocation of a watercourse:
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities and the California Department of
Water Resources prior to alteration or relocation;
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency; and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      (2)   Base flood elevation changes due to physical alterations.
         (a)   Within six months of information becoming available or project
completion, whichever comes first, the Floodplain Administrator shall submit or
assure that the permit applicant submits technical or scientific data to FEMA
for a letter of map revision (LOMR).
         (b)   All LOMRs for flood control projects are approved prior to the
issuance of building permits. Building permits must not be issued based on
conditional letters of map revision (CLOMRs). Approved CLOMRs allow
construction of the proposed flood control project and land preparation as
specified in the START OF CONSTRUCTION definition. Such submissions are
necessary so that upon confirmation of those physical changes affecting
flooding conditions, risk premium rates and floodplain management requirements
are based on current data.
      (3)   Changes in corporate boundaries: notify FEMA in writing whenever
the corporate boundaries have been modified by annexation or other means and
include a copy of a map of the community clearly delineating the new corporate
limits.
   (E)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
      (1)   Certification required by §
9-1-451(C)(1);
      (2)   Certification required by §
9-1-451(C)(2);
      (3)   Certification required by §
9-1-451(C)(3);
      (4)   Certification of elevation required by §
9-1-453(B);
      (5)   Certification required by §
9-1-456(A);
      (6)   Information required by §
9-1-457(F); and
      (7)   Reports required by §
9-1-458(C).
   (F)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the exact
location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard, for example,
where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions. The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §§
9-1-461 through
9-1-463.
   (G)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this subchapter,
as specified in §
9-1-433.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-443) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997; Ord. 2008-150, §§ 4, 5, passed 1-15-2008)
§ 9-1-444 APPEALS.
   The City Council shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is
an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-444) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§§ 9-1-445—9-1-450 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 3. PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION **
§ 9-1-451 STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following standards are required.
   (A)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the
structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   All manufactured homes shall meet the anchoring standards of §
9-1-454.
   (B)   Construction materials and methods. All new construction and
substantial improvement shall be constructed:
      (1)   With materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
      (2)   Using methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (3)   With electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions off-loading; and
      (4)   Within zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (C)   Elevation and floodproofing. (See §
9-1-421, definitions for BASEMENT, LOWEST FLOOR, NEW CONSTRUCTION, SUBSTANTIAL
DAMAGE and SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.)
      (1)   (a)   Residential construction, new or substantial improvement,
shall have the lowest floor, including basement:
            1.   In an AO Zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to at least one foot above the depth number specified in feet on
the FIRM, or elevated at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade if
no depth number is specified;
            2.   In an A Zone, elevated at least one foot above the base flood
elevation, as determined by this community; or
            3.   In all other zones, elevated at least one foot above the base
flood elevation.
         (b)   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the
lowest floor, including basement, shall be certified by a registered
professional engineer or surveyor, and verified by the Community Building
Inspector to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall be
provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction, new or substantial improvement, shall
either be elevated to conform with this division (C)(2) or together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
         (a)   Be floodproofed below the elevation recommended under this
division (C)(2) so that the structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         (c)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of this division (C)(2) are satisfied. Such certification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
      (3)   (a)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage and which are
subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood
water.
         (b)   Designs for meeting this requirement must exceed the following
minimum criteria:
            1.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect; or
            2.   Have a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood water.
      (4)   Manufactured homes shall also meet the standards in §
9-1-454.
      (5)   Garages and low cost accessory structures:
         (a)   Attached garages.
            1.   A garage attached to a residential structure, constructed with
the garage floor slab below the BFE, must be designed to allow for the
automatic entry of flood waters. See division (C)(3) above. Areas of the garage
below the BFE must be constructed with flood resistant materials. See division
(B) above.
            2.   A garage attached to a nonresidential structure must meet the
above requirements or be dry floodproofed. For guidance on below grade parking
areas, see FEMA Technical Bulletin TB-6.
      (b)   Detached garages and accessory structures.
            1.   “Accessory structures” used solely for parking (two-car
detached garages or smaller) or limited storage (small, low-cost sheds), as
defined in §
9-1-421, may be constructed such that its floor is below the base flood
elevation (BFE); provided the structure is designed and constructed in
accordance with the following requirements:
               a.   Use of the accessory structure must be limited to parking
or limited storage;
               b.   The portions of the accessory structure located below the
BFE must be built using flood-resistant materials;
               c.   The accessory structure must be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
               d.   Any mechanical and utility equipment in the accessory
structure must be elevated or floodproofed to or above the BFE;
               e.   The accessory structure must comply with floodplain
encroachment provisions in §
9-1-456; and
               f.   The accessory structure must be designed to allow for the
automatic entry of flood waters in accordance with division (C)(3) above.
            2.   Detached garages and accessory structures not meeting the
above standards must be constructed in accordance with all applicable standards
in this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-451) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997; Ord. 2008-150, § 6, passed 1-15-2008)
§ 9-1-452 STANDARDS FOR UTILITIES.
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems shall
be designed to minimize or eliminate:
      (1)   Infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
      (2)   Discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (B)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-452) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-453 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood.
   (B)   All subdivision plans will provide the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and pad(s). If the site is filled above the base flood elevation, the
lowest floor and pad elevations shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor and provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities,
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (E)   All subdivisions shall provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-453) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-454 STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved,
within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s flood insurance rate map, on
sites located:
      (1)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (3)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      (4)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site upon
which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a
flood, shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home is elevated at least one foot above the base flood
elevation and be securely fastened to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation collapse and lateral movement.
   (B)   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved on
sites located within Zones V1-30, V and VE on the community’s flood insurance
rate map will meet the requirements of division (A) above and §
9-1-457.
   (C)   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on sites
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within zones A1-30, AH,
AE, V1-30, V and VE on the community’s flood insurance rate map that are not
subject to the provisions of division (A) above will be securely fastened to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation collapse, and lateral
movement, and be elevated so that either the:
      (1)   Lowest floor of the manufactured home is at least one foot above
the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   Manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than 36
inches in height above grade.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-454) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-455 STANDARDS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites within zones A1-30, AH and
AE on the community’s flood insurance rate map will either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days, and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use – a recreational vehicle is ready for
highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site
only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices and has no
permanently attached additions; or
      (2)   Meet the permit requirements of §§
9-1-441 through
9-1-444 and the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes in
§
9-1-454(A).
   (B)   Recreation vehicles placed on sites within zones V1-30, V and VE on
the community’s flood insurance rate map will meet the requirements of division
(A) above and §
9-1-457.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-455) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-456 FLOODWAYS.
   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
9-1-432 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions apply.
   (A)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvement and other new development unless certification by a registered
professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that encroachments
shall not result in any increase in (the base) flood elevation during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge; and
   (B)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all new construction, substantial
improvement and other proposed new development shall comply with all other
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §§
9-1-451 through
9-1-459.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-456) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-457 COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS.
   Within coastal high hazard areas as established under §
9-1-432, the following standards shall apply.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvement shall be elevated on
adequately anchored pilings or columns and securely anchored to such pilings or
columns so that the lowest horizontal portion of the structural members of the
lowest floor (excluding the pilings or columns) is elevated to or above the
base flood level. The pile or column foundation and structure attached thereto
is anchored to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement due to the
effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all building
components. Water loading values used shall be those associated with the base
flood. Wind loading values used shall be those required by applicable state or
local building standards.
   (B)   All new construction and other development shall be located on the
landward side of the reach of mean high tide.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvement shall have the space
below the lowest floor free of obstructions or constructed with breakaway
walls, as defined in §
9-1-421. Such enclosed space shall not be used for human habitation and will be
usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage.
   (D)   Fill shall not be used for structural support of buildings.
   (E)   Human-made alteration of sand dunes which would increase potential
flood damage is prohibited.
   (F)   The Floodplain Administrator shall obtain and maintain the following
records:
      (1)   Certification by a registered engineer or architect that a proposed
structure complies with division (A) above; and
      (2)   The elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the bottom of the
lowest structural member of the lowest floor (excluding pilings or columns) of
all new and substantially improved structures, and whether such structures
contain a basement.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-457) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-458 MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREAS.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review permits for proposed
construction of other development to determine if it is proposed within a
mudslide area.
   (B)   (1)   Permits shall be reviewed to determine that the proposed site
and improvement will be reasonably safe from mudslide hazards.
      (2)   Factors to be considered in making this determination, include, but
are not limited to, the:
         (a)   Type and quality of soils;
         (b)   Evidence of ground water or surface water problems;
         (c)   Depth and quality of any fill;
         (d)   Overall slope of the site; and
         (e)   Weight that any proposed development will impose on the slope.
   (C)   Within areas which may have mudslide hazards, the floodplain
administration shall require that:
      (1)   A site investigation and further review be made by persons
qualified in geology and soils engineering;
      (2)   The proposed grading, excavation, new construction and substantial
improvement be adequately designed and protected against mudslide damages;
      (3)   The proposed grading, excavations, new construction and substantial
improvement not aggravate the existing hazard by creating either on-site or
off-site disturbances; and
      (4)   Drainage, planting, watering and maintenance not endanger slope
stability.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-458) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-459 FLOOD-RELATED EROSION-PRONE AREAS.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require permits for proposed
construction and other development within all flood related erosion-prone areas
as known to the community.
   (B)   Permit applications shall be reviewed to determine whether the
proposed site alterations and improvements will be reasonably safe from flood-
related erosion and will not cause flood-related erosion hazards or otherwise
aggravate the existing hazard.
   (C)   If a proposed improvement is found to be in the path of flood-related
erosion or would increase the erosion hazard, such improvement shall be
relocated or adequate protective measures shall be taken to avoid aggravating
the existing erosion hazard.
   (D)   Within Zone E on the flood insurance rate map, a setback is required
for all new development from the ocean, lake, bay, riverfront or other body of
water to create a safety buffer consisting of a natural vegetative or contour
strip. This buffer shall be designated according to the flood-related erosion
hazard and erosion rate, in relation to the anticipated “useful life” of
structures, and depending upon the geologic, hydrologic, topographic and
climatic characteristics of the land. The buffer may be used for suitable open
space purposes, such as for agricultural, forestry, outdoor recreation and
wildlife habitat areas and for other activities using temporary and portable
structures only.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-459) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-460 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 4. VARIANCE PROCEDURE **
§ 9-1-461 NATURE OF VARIANCES.
   (A)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this subchapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants or the property owners.
   (B)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens from
flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
ensuring a structure built below flood level are so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in this subchapter are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this subchapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-461) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-462 APPEAL BOARD.
   (A)   In passing upon requests for variances, the City Council shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this subchapter and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
community;
      (5)   Necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water system and streets and
bridges.
   (B)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25.00 for $100.00 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. It is recommended that a copy of the notice shall be
recorded by the Floodplain Administrator in the office of the County Recorder
and shall be recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of
the affected parcel of land.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in its biennial report submitted to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-462) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§ 9-1-463 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement and other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one-
half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing
structures constructed below the base flood level; providing that the
procedures of §§
9-1-441 through
9-1-459 have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” (as defined in §
9-1-421) upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (C)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the “minimum necessary”, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
MINIMUM NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this subchapter. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the City Council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local article.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a:
      (1)   Showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   Determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional “hardship” (as defined in §
9-1-421) to the applicant; and
      (3)   Determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or extraordinary
public expense; create a nuisance (as defined in §
9-1-421, see PUBLIC SAFETY OR NUISANCE); cause fraud or victimization (as
defined in §
9-1-421) of the public; or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use; provided that the provisions of §§
9-1-463(A) through
9-1-463(E) are satisfied and that the structure or other development is
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does
not result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors of §
9-1-462(A) and the purposes of this subchapter, the City Council may attach
such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further
the purposes of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-463) (Ord. 97-96, § 1, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 97-97, § 1,
passed 10-21-1997)
§§ 9-1-464—9-1-499 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 5. LOCAL PARK CODE ****
** ARTICLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS **
§ 9-1-500 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be referred to as the “local park code”.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-500) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-501 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all property that is located within the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-501) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-502 PURPOSE, AUTHORITY AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to California Government Code, §
66477, the police power, the power to zone and the power to implement the
recreation element of the city’s general plan.
   (B)   The general purpose and objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To preserve, enhance and improve the quality of the physical
environment of the city;
      (2)   To provide a procedure for the acquisition and development of local
park facilities;
      (3)   To secure for the citizens of the city the social and physical
advantages resulting from the provision of orderly park, recreation and open
space facilities;
      (4)   To establish conditions which will allow parks and recreation areas
to be provided and to exist in harmony with surrounding and neighborhood land
uses;
      (5)   To ensure that adequate park and recreation facilities will be
provided;
      (6)   To ensure that park and recreation facilities are provided and
maintained in a manner that will permit their maximum use and enjoyment by the
residents of the surrounding areas; and
      (7)   To provide regulations requiring three acres of land or the
proportionate share thereof for each 1,000 persons residing within the city be
supplied by persons proposing to establish dwelling units.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-502) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-31, § 1,
passed 3-5-1991)
§ 9-1-503 INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   In all matters pertaining to local parks, this subchapter shall take
precedence over all other ordinances or resolutions adopted by the City
Council, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed to repeal,
amend, modify, impair, annul or otherwise interfere with any other existing
article, ordinance, easement, deed restriction, covenant or other agreement
between parties or any part thereof not specifically repealed, amended,
modified or annulled in this subchapter, except that, where this subchapter
imposes greater limitations or requirements on the use of land, or greater
parks and open spaces, or larger areas or dimensions, or larger fees, than the
limitations or requirements imposed by any other article, ordinance, easement,
deed restriction, covenant or agreement on the same premises or property, this
subchapter shall control.
      (2)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize the use
of any premises or property in violation of this or any other applicable
article, statute, ordinance or regulation.
   (B)   Whenever reference is made to any portion of this subchapter, the
reference applies to all amendments and additions now or hereafter made.
   (C)   If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of
this subchapter is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or otherwise
invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity or constitutionality of
the remaining portions of this subchapter. The City Council hereby declares
that it would have passed this subchapter, and each section, division,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that
one or more of the sections, divisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or
phrases thereof is declared invalid.
   (D)   If any uncertainty exists as to the meaning or intent of any of the
provisions or requirements of this subchapter, it shall be the duty of the
Director of Community Development to make a determination regarding such
meaning or intent. Such determination shall be that which best carries out the
purposes and objectives of this subchapter as set forth in §
9-1-502.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-503) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-504 RESPONSIBILITY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Council hereby declares that it is the duty and the responsibility
of the residents of the city and of all levels of the city government to
preserve and enhance the quality of the physical environment, and, further,
that it is the duty and the responsibility of the city to act in a stewardship
capacity by providing local park facilities.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of each person who proposes to establish a
dwelling unit or to increase the number of dwelling units on their property,
and of each person who proposes to create residential building sites, to
provide an equitable portion of the necessary park lands as required by this
subchapter.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the Subdivision Committee to approve all
local park dedications, modifications and park implementation plans in
accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   It is the duty of the Director of Community Development to verify that
the requirements of this subchapter are complied with, and to notify all
interested parties and agencies of such compliance.
   (D)   It is the duty of the Building Official to enforce the provisions of
this subchapter that are applicable to the issuance of building permits and
certificates of occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-504) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-505 USE OF LAND AND FEES.
   All park land provided and all fees paid shall be used to provide local park
benefits for future residents of the area from which the park land or park fees
are derived.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-505) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-506 GENERAL RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEFINITIONS.
   The following rules of construction shall apply for purposes of this
subchapter.
   (A)   Specific provisions shall supersede general provisions relating to the
same subject.
   (B)   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future. Words in the singular number include the plural, and
words in the plural include the singular.
   (C)   Unless otherwise specifically defined in this subchapter, all
definitions of the city’s zoning code and the city’s subdivision code are
applicable to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-506) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
   Subdivision code definitions, see §§
9-1-210 et seq.
§ 9-1-507 SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions specified in §
9-1-506, the following definitions shall apply for purposes of this subchapter.
   PARK. A parcel, or contiguous parcels, of land which is owned, operated and
maintained by a public agency, or which is privately-owned or operated and
maintained, which has been approved for local park credit under this subchapter
and which provides recreational land and facilities for the benefit and
enjoyment of the residents and visitors of the city.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, copartnership, joint venture, association,
club, trust, receiver, syndicate, county, city, municipality, district or other
political subdivision, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-507) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-508 USE OF FEES.
   (A)   All park fees paid pursuant to Subchapter 5, Article 2 and interest
accrued from such fees to the city shall be used to provide for acquiring and
developing new parks or rehabilitating existing parks or recreational
facilities to serve the subdivision, and shall be deposited in a special
account reserved for such purposes. Such fees may also be used for the purposes
described in California Government Code, § 66477.5.
   (B)   All park fees paid pursuant to Subchapter 5, Article 3 and interest
accrued from such fees to the city shall be used for the purposes set forth in
§
9-1-502, and shall be deposited in a separate account reserved for such
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-508) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-509 APPEALS TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Any person may appeal a determination of the Subdivision Committee
regarding the interpretation or implementation of this subchapter. Any such
appeal shall be addressed to the Planning Commission and shall be filed in
duplicate with the Director of Parks and Recreation within ten calendar days
from the date of such determination.
   (B)   The appeal shall set forth specifically where the determination of the
Subdivision Committee fails to conform to the requirements of this subchapter
or other applicable law, or wherein the conditions imposed are improper.
   (C)   The Director of Community Development shall bring the matter before
the Planning Commission for hearing within 30 days after the date of filing the
appeal. The person and the appellant, if other than the person, shall be given
at least ten days’ notice of the Planning Commission’s hearing.
   (D)   The Planning Commission may affirm, reverse or modify any
determination of the Subdivision Committee and may make such findings as it
deems appropriate. If only one or a limited number of conditions are being
appealed, the Planning Commission need not limit its review to those specific
conditions, but may review the whole action taken by the Subdivision Committee.
The Planning Commission shall render its decision on the appeal within seven
days of the conclusion of its hearing.
   (E)   An appeal, once filed, may be withdrawn only with the consent of the
Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-509) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-510 APPEALS TO CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any person may appeal a determination of the Planning Commission
regarding the interpretation or implementation of this subchapter. Any such
appeal shall be addressed to the City Council and shall be filed in duplicate
with the City Clerk within ten calendar days from the date of such
determination.
   (B)   The appeal shall set forth specifically where the determination of the
Planning Commission fails to conform to the requirements of this subchapter or
other applicable law, or wherein the conditions imposed are improper.
   (C)   The Director of Community Development shall report the filing of the
appeal to the Planning Commission at its next regular meeting. The Planning
Commission may make a report to the City Council for its consideration in
determining the appeal of any observations or facts regarding such
determination which would answer the statements set forth in the appeal. The
Director of Community Development shall transmit to the City Clerk such report,
together with such reports in the matter as possessed by the Planning
Commission.
   (D)   The City Council shall consider the appeal at a regular meeting within
30 calendar days following the receipt by the City Clerk, or within such time
as the Council shall continue the matter
   (E)   Notice of the time and place the City Council will consider the appeal
shall be mailed by the City Clerk to the applicant, and to the person who filed
the appeal if other than the applicant, and shall give at least ten days’
notice.
   (F)   The City Council may, at a regular meeting, affirm, reverse or modify,
in whole or in part, any determination of the Planning Commission from which an
appeal has been taken under this section. The resolution shall include such
express findings of fact or such observations, if any, as any member of the
City Council may desire to have included. If the Council fails to pass such a
resolution within 30 calendar days following the receipt by the City Clerk of
the duplicate copy of the appeal, or within such time as the Council continues
the matter, such failure shall be deemed an affirmation of the determination of
the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-510) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-511 REFUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Requests for refunds of park fees paid or release of
security instruments may be directed to the Director of Community Development
at any time.
         (b)   The Director may approve a refund or a partial refund of park
fees paid or release of security instruments when they have verified:
            1.   That the refund amount requested corresponds to the amount of
fees actually deposited in the Local Park Trust Fund for a given number of
dwelling units; and
            2.   That the local park requirement for the dwelling units in
question has been met by actual City Council acceptance of park land or by an
irrevocable recorded offer to dedicate park land on a final tract map or parcel
map; or
            3.   That the subdivision or building permit approval for which
fees were required has been withdrawn or is otherwise no longer valid.
      (2)   Requests that do not comply with the criteria set out in divisions
(A)(1)(b)1. and (A)(1)(b)2. or (A)(1)(b)3. above shall be denied by the
Director. Appeals from the decision of the Director shall be first to the
Planning Commission as described in §
9-1-509, and then to the City Council as described in §
9-1-510.
   (B)   When the Director of Community Development approves a refund, they
shall request a warrant from the City Treasurer, citing in their request the
Council resolution accepting the park land, or the tract, book and page number
in the case of a recorded offer to dedicate land. In the case of release of a
security instrument, they shall request such release from the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-511) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-512 MODIFICATIONS.
   Any person may apply for a modification of the methods used in fulfilling
requirements of this subchapter, as follows.
   (A)   Each application for a modification shall be in writing and shall
state specifically the exact requirement that is requested to be modified, and
the applicant’s reasons for requesting such a modification.
   (B)   Each application for a modification shall be filed with the Director
of Parks and Recreation.
   (C)   The Subdivision Committee shall hold a public meeting for the purpose
of hearing the modification request. Such meeting shall be set for a date not
later than 30 days subsequent to the filing of the application.
   (D)   Modifications of the methods used in complying with requirements of
this subchapter may be approved only when the Subdivision Committee makes a
determination that the future residents of the subject property will be better
served by the approval of the modification. If there is a determination that
the future residents will not be better served, the Subdivision Committee shall
disapprove the application.
   (E)   The determination of the Subdivision Committee shall become final
after an appeal period of 14 calendar days from the date of such determination
unless an appeal is filed within that period in compliance with the regulations
of §
9-1-509.
   (F)   A park implementation plan approved pursuant to the local park
component of the recreation element of the city’s general plan may serve as a
master park modification.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-512) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 9-1-513—9-1-519 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
ARTICLE 2. REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISIONS
§ 9-1-520 APPLICABILITY.
   Any person who proposes to divide real property for the purpose of creating
a residential subdivision or a parcel map for residential use shall pay a park
fee or provide park land in accordance with the requirements of this article.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-520) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-521 METHOD OF FULFILLING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The requirements of this article shall be complied with by the
provision of park land, as approved by the Subdivision Committee, the payment
of park fees or by a combination of both.
   (B)   Provision of park land shall not be required for parcel maps or
subdivisions containing 50 parcels or less; except that, when a condominium
project, stock cooperative or community apartment project exceeds 50 dwelling
units, dedication of land may be required notwithstanding that the number of
parcels may be less than 50.
   (C)   Whenever a person proposes to provide park land, such person shall
comply with the requirements of §
9-1-526.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-521) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-522 AMOUNT OF PARK LAND REQUIRED.
   When the requirements of this subchapter are complied with solely on the
basis of providing park land, the amount of land to be provided shall be
computed by multiplying the number of proposed dwelling units by the park land
acres per dwelling unit in accordance with the appropriate density
classification in the following table:
 
Dwelling Units per Gross Persons per Dwelling Unit Park Land Acres per Dwelling
Acre                                               Unit
Up to 6.5                3.21                      0.0096
6.6 to 15.5              2.59                      0.0078
15.6 to 25.5             1.99                      0.0060
25.6 and up              1.88                      0.0056
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-522) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 90-31, § 2,
passed 3-5-1991)
§ 9-1-523 AMOUNT OF PARK FEES REQUIRED.
   Whenever the requirements of this subchapter are met solely on the basis of
the payment of park fees, the amount of such fees shall be computed by
multiplying the number of proposed dwelling units by the park land acres per
dwelling unit shown in the table set out §
9-1-522, and by multiplying the resultant acreage amount by the representative
land value of the land being developed per acre. Representative land values
shall be determined by adoption of a resolution by the City Council which shall
establish representative land values for the density classifications identified
in §
9-1-522. The representative land values shall be determined by a state
certified general real estate appraiser and who is designated as a member of
the appraisal institute (MAI) or certified by an equivalent organization.
Representative land values shall be determined at intervals of not more than
five years. The City Manager shall adjust the represented land values upward or
downward annually by June 30 of each year, other than a year for which an
appraisal is prepared, by the change in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban
Consumers, Los Angeles-Long Beach Anaheim or successor index.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-523) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2015-178, § 3,
passed 5-5-2015)
§ 9-1-524 AMOUNT OF PARK LAND AND PARK FEES COMBINED.
   Whenever the requirements of this subchapter are complied with by both the
provision of park land and payment of park fee, the amount of the park fee
shall be computed by determining the required amount of park land in accordance
with the provisions of §
9-1-522 and subtracting the amount of park land actually provided. The
remainder shall be converted to a fee in accordance with the provisions of §
9-1-523.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-524) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-525 IMPROVEMENT OF DEDICATED PARK LAND.
   If the person is required to provide dedicated park land and provides park
and recreational improvements to the dedicated land pursuant to a development
plan approved by city, the value of the improvements, together with any
equipment located thereon, shall be a credit against the payment of fees or
dedication of land required by this subchapter. The value of such improvements
shall be at cost to the developer.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-525) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-526 PARK LAND REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person meeting either all or part of the requirements of this subchapter
by providing park land shall comply with divisions (A), (B), (C), (E) and (F)
below.
   (A)   If the proposed park land is within or contiguous to the boundary of a
tentative tract or parcel map, it shall be shown on the tentative tract or
parcel map.
   (B)   If the proposed park land is outside the boundary of the tentative
tract or parcel map, it shall be shown on a separate map accompanying the
tentative tract map or shall be consistent with an approved park implementation
plan.
   (C)   If the Subdivision Committee makes a determination that the future
residents will be better served by the establishment of a park in a different
location than that proposed by the person, it may require the person to pay a
park fee for all or part of the required park land, and the amount of park land
required to be shown on the tentative map shall be reduced by an equivalent
amount.
   (D)   Any proposal to provide park land on real property zoned for multiple
residential uses shall include a statement on the face of the map specifying
the number of proposed dwelling units, and the amount of park land required
shall be computed on the basis of the number of dwelling units shown on the
face of the map. If the number of building permits for dwelling units exceeds
the amount proposed on the face of the tentative map, an appropriate park fee
in accordance with the requirements of §
9-1-523 shall be paid for the additional dwelling units or additional acreage
dedicated.
   (E)   Each proposal to provide park land shall be reviewed and a
determination made by the Director of Parks and Recreation as to compliance
with the regulations, standards and criteria specified by this subchapter and
the recreation element of the general plan. Any proposed park land dedication
shall demonstrate that it furthers the goals and purposes of the general plan,
including the recreation element, and is suitable for park and recreation
purposes. They shall report all such findings to the Subdivision Committee. All
park land shown on a tentative tract or parcel map or a subdivision of land
shall be recorded on a final tract map or a parcel map. Such map shall include
an offer of dedication to the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-526) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-527 PARK FEE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Park fees shall be approved by the Subdivision Committee. The amount
of park fees shall be computed in accordance with the provisions of §
9-1-523, based on representative land value of the land being developed at the
time the building permits are issued. Fees shall be paid prior to issuance of
building permits or at such time as otherwise provided by resolution of the
City Council.
   (B)   Any approval of the payment of park fees shall be made by the
Subdivision Committee prior to or concurrently with the approval of the
tentative map, and such approval shall be shown on the face of the tentative
map and by conditions of approval.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-527) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-528 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 9-1-529 CHANGES FOLLOWING APPROVAL OF TENTATIVE MAP OR DIVISION OF LAND.
   If any person proposes to change the amount of the park land or the payment
of the park fee or the size, shape, location, terrain or improvements of the
park shown on an approved tentative tract map or tentative parcel map, such
change shall be deemed to be a revision of the tentative tract map or tentative
parcel map, and shall require the filing of a new or revised map.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-529) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-530 CONFORMANCE WITH GENERAL PLAN.
   All required local park land provided in compliance with this subchapter
shall comply with the standards and criteria contained in the open space/parks/
conservation element of the city’s general plan. The master plan of local parks
shall be the version in force at the time of approval of a tentative tract map
or tentative parcel map.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-530) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 9-1-531—9-1-539 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
** ARTICLE 3. REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF DWELLING UNITS ON EXISTING SITES
**
§ 9-1-540 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   Whenever a person proposes to build, place or otherwise establish a dwelling
unit on a building site created prior to June 29, 1971, with no local park fees
having been paid or park land dedicated on behalf of such site, such person
shall pay a park fee in an amount determined pursuant to §
9-1-523, prior to issuance of building permits.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-540) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 9-1-541—9-1-599 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 6. INTERIM SCHOOL FACILITIES FEES ****
§ 9-1-600 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 9-1-601 APPLICATION.
   If the governing board of a school district:
   (A)   Makes a finding in accordance with California Government Code, § 65971
supported by clear and convincing evidence that:
      (1)   Conditions of overcrowding exist in one or more of the attendance
areas within the district which will impair the normal functioning of
educational programs including the reason for such conditions existing; and
      (2)   That all reasonable methods of mitigating conditions of
overcrowding have been evaluated and no feasible method for reducing such
conditions exists.
   (B)   Notifies the City Council in writing of such findings and evidence and
describes the precise geographic boundaries of the overcrowded attendance areas
and the facilities to be constructed with any fees obtained pursuant to this
subchapter; and
   (C)   Specifies in writing mitigation measures considered by the governing
board, such measures to include, but not to be limited to, those enumerated in
this subchapter; and if the City Council, after a hearing and recommendation by
the Planning Commission, concurs in such findings and finds that the facilities
proposed to be constructed are consistent with the city’s general plan, then
the provisions of this subchapter shall be applicable to the attendance areas
described in the governing board’s resolution, subject to the exceptions set
forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-601) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-602 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTENDANCE AREA. The area established by a governing board within which
pupils must reside to attend a particular school.
   GOVERNING BOARD. The governing board of any school district which operates a
high school or elementary school.
   REASONABLE METHODS OF MITIGATING CONDITIONS OF OVERCROWDING. Includes, but
is not limited to:
      (1)   Agreements between a governing board and subdivider whereby
temporary use buildings will be leased to the governing board or temporary use
buildings owned by the governing board will be used;
      (2)   Double sessions;
      (3)   Relieving overcrowded school conditions by adjustment of attendant
area boundaries;
      (4)   Continuous school programs as authorized by California Education
Code, §§ 37600 et seq.;
      (5)   Use of available annual tax rate and bond revenues to the full
extent authorized by law;
      (6)   Full use of funds which could be available from sale of surplus
school district real property and funds available from any other sources; and
      (7)   The possible use of the facilities in adjacent districts.
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. A project containing residential dwellings,
including mobile homes, of one or more units, or a subdivision of land for the
purpose of constructing one or more residential dwelling units.
   TIME OF SALE OF THE PROPERTY. The time of close of escrow.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-602) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 9-1-603 FEES IMPOSED.
   (A)   No building permits shall be issued for any residential development in
any attendance area to which this subchapter is applicable until an agreement
for payment of the fees set forth in this subchapter has been received by the
city.
   (B)   Fees shall be in the amount of 0.8% of the selling price of each
dwelling unit, not to exceed $1,200.00; provided that, in the case of
construction by an owner-occupant, where no sale is contemplated prior to
occupancy, fees shall be based on the amount of the value of the unit, as
agreed upon between the owner and the district.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-603) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-604 AGREEMENT FOR FEES.
   There shall be an agreement signed prior to the issuance of any building
permit, between the school district and the developer, that the fees shall be
collected at the time of sale, or occupancy if no sale is contemplated, and
promptly given to the district. A copy of the agreement shall be provided to
the Director of Community Development at the time of issuance of building
permits.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-604) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-605 EXEMPTIONS AND WAIVERS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, no fee shall
be imposed upon residential developments in which the residence is enforceably
restricted by deed to adults.
   (B)   The City Council may waive all or any part of the fees otherwise
required by this subchapter where it finds that such fees do not bear
reasonable relationship or will not be limited to the needs of the community
for interim elementary or high school facilities caused by the development. The
Council shall consider such waiver only when requested to do so by the
proponent of the resident development project and only after giving at least
ten days’ written notice to the governing board of its intention to consider a
waiver. The governing board shall be heard on the question before the Council
grants a waiver. No waiver shall be considered unless requested prior to
application for building permits. The Planning Commission shall make
recommendations on any request.
   (C)   This subchapter shall not apply to any residential development where
the City Council finds that there are specific overriding fiscal, economic,
social or environmental factors which, in the judgment of the Council,
expressed by resolution, would benefit the city to the extent that approval of
such development without compliance with this subchapter is justified. The
Planning Commission shall make recommendations on any request.
   (D)   In lieu of all or any part of the fees otherwise required by this
subchapter, the proponent of residential development may agree to dedicate, by
instrument acceptable to the governing board, real property to be used by the
governing board to mitigate conditions of overcrowding. The value of such
property shall be determined by the governing board and the party making the
dedication, and such value shall be reported to the City Council in writing,
and the agreement of the owner and the governing board as to the value shall be
acknowledged thereon. The report shall also set forth the precise boundaries of
the property to be dedicated and the territory, which may include all or parts
of one or more attendance areas, for which the dedication is to be credited.
Upon approval by the City Council, and if the Council finds the site proposed
to be dedicated to be consistent with the general plan, the Council may approve
the agreed value. In the event of approval, credit for such value against the
fees otherwise required by this subchapter shall be given until exhaustion of
such credit, after which an agreement for payment of such fees shall be
required at the time of issuance of building permits. The credit shall be
applicable to any residential dwelling in the territory specified in the
agreement. Any report to the Council pursuant to this section shall be made
before any agreement for payment of fees has been required by the city for
residential dwelling units in the territory described in the report.
   (E)   In lieu of payment of any fee required by this subchapter, the builder
of a residential development may, at their option and expense, provide interim
facilities, owned or controlled by such builder, at the place designated by the
school district, and at the conclusion of the fifth school year the builder
shall, at the builder’s expense, remove the interim facilities from such place.
   (F)   In lieu of payment of any fees required by this subchapter, the
builder of a residential development may submit a letter from the district
stating that the developer has mitigated the conditions of overcrowding by way
of a separate agreement for school facilities with the district for meeting
district needs.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-605) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-606 SCHEDULE FOR MITIGATION.
   The governing board having jurisdiction over an attendance area which is
subject to this subchapter shall submit a schedule specifying how it will use
the fees required to solve the conditions of overcrowding. The schedule shall
be in accordance with the facilities described, pursuant to §
9-1-601, and shall include the school sites to be used, the classroom
facilities to be made available and the times when such facilities will be
available. If the governing board cannot meet the schedule, it shall submit
modifications to the City Council, along with the reasons for the
modifications.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-606) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-607 ACCOUNTING FOR FEES RECEIVED.
   Any governing board receiving funds or dedications pursuant to this
subchapter shall maintain a separate account for any such funds, and shall file
a report with the City Council on the balance in the account at the end of the
previous fiscal year and the facilities leased, purchased or constructed during
the previous fiscal year. In addition, the reports shall specify which
attendance areas will continue to be overcrowded when the fall term begins and
where conditions of overcrowding will no longer exist. Such report shall be
filed by August 1 of each year, and shall be filed more frequently if requested
by the City Council. The City Treasurer may, at any time, conduct an audit of
the fees transferred to the governing board for the purpose of ascertaining
whether or not such fees are being used for the purposes authorized by this
subchapter. The governing board and the developer paying fees shall cooperate
in such audit.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-607) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-608 AGREEMENTS WHERE TWO GOVERNING BOARDS RECEIVE FEES.
   Where two separate governing boards operate schools in an attendance area
where overcrowding conditions exist for both school districts, the City Council
shall enter into an agreement with each of the governing boards for the purpose
of determining the distribution of revenues from the fees levied pursuant to
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-608) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-609 TERMINATION OF APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall cease to apply to any attendance area upon a
determination by the City Council that conditions of overcrowding no longer
exist.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-609) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-610 CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   If the severity of conditions of overcrowding in an attendance area
increases after the governing board has given the City Council the notice
described in §
9-1-601 and the governing board has determined that additional facilities
beyond those described in the notice are necessary, the governing board may
give additional notice to the Council in the manner provided in §
9-1-601.
   (B)   Such notice shall, in addition, describe the additional facilities for
which fees under this subchapter are desired.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-610) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-611 ADMINISTRATION.
   This subchapter shall be administered by the Director of Community
Development. The Director shall, subject to approval of the City Council, adopt
rules, policies and procedures to implement this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-611) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-1-612 CHANGE IN ATTENDANCE AREAS.
   If the boundaries of any attendance area to which this subchapter is made
applicable are changed, the governing board shall immediately notify the City
Council, specifying both the new and the old boundaries, and shall furnish such
additional information in connection with such change as may be requested by
the Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-612) (Ord. 90-11, § 13, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 9-1-613—9-1-699 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 7. RESERVED ****
§§ 9-1-700—9-1-799 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 8. GATE-GUARDED NEIGHBORHOODS ****
§ 9-1-800 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   A gate-guarded neighborhood for new or existing areas shall be
established within the city only after receiving City Council approval. Any
person desiring a gate-guarded neighborhood shall submit a detailed gate-
guarded neighborhood plan to the Community Development Department for initial
review. The plan shall provide the specified information and satisfy standards
as set forth in this subchapter. The plan shall not be processed until the
Community Development Director has determined that all required information has
been submitted with the plan application. For existing communities, the city
will require a finding that the gates are justified on the basis of statistical
data to be supplied by the applicant and verified by the city, such as police
responses, excessive traffic violations and monetary benefits.
   (B)   An application fee shall be paid in the amount specified by City
Council resolution. The fee shall be a deposit, and all city staff time and
other costs shall be assessed against the fee deposit. All costs for processing
such an application shall be borne by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-800) (Ord. 90-29, § 1, passed 11-20-1990)
§ 9-1-801 REQUIRED INFORMATION FOR NEIGHBORHOOD PLAN; DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Evidence of identifiable area to be served. A gate-guarded
neighborhood submitted pursuant to this subchapter shall present evidence
demonstrating that the control gates will serve a well-defined neighborhood.
   (B)   Evidence of neighborhood support.
      (1)   The plan shall include a petition evidencing a strong majority
support for the concept. As a minimum, signatures of 51% of the owners of
property within the neighborhood establishing written support for the plan
shall be utilized by the city in determining whether there is a strong majority
support for the plan, with each dwelling unit to be tabulated as one vote. This
criterion shall not apply to new development, with the exception of those
developments under construction for which 25% or more of the units have been
sold.
      (2)   After receipt of the petition, city staff shall prepare a report
which outlines all potential impacts of the action should it be implemented.
The report shall be circulated as a ballot to all owners of record within the
impacted neighborhood. The resultant tabulation of the ballots in support of
the issue must total at least 75% of all of the property owners, with each
dwelling unit to be tabulated as one vote.
   (C)   Design and access standards.
      (1)   Key system for gates. The plan shall provide for the installation
of a master key override switch system as prescribed by the city for emergency
access or other public access. Keys shall be provided to the city in the event
of approval. If the gate operates by way of a telephone system, a ring-through
feature shall be provided in order that cars waiting at the gate entrance will
not cause waiting or queuing problems should a telephone line be in use.
      (2)   Gate setback. The setback of any gates shall be determined by the
number of dwelling units within a gated neighborhood, on a basis of one-foot
setback for each dwelling unit within the neighborhood. There shall be a
minimum 100-foot setback for those neighborhoods consisting of less than 100
dwelling units. For setbacks in excess of 100 feet, credit may be given for
multiple lanes.
      (3)   Turnaround. There shall be a minimum of a 38-foot radius turnaround
area to ensure unrestricted access to and from the gate area and public street
system. This requirement shall be treated as a general standard which may be
increased based upon site and public health and safety considerations at the
sole discretion of the city.
      (4)   Review by Fire Department. The Fire Department shall be asked to
make its review and recommendations on any proposed plan.
      (5)   Other topographical considerations. The Community Development
Department shall review the plan for other site and topographical layout
considerations to ensure that the design of the gate system does not create
health and safety hazards.
      (6)   Access to public facilities. The proposal shall not block or
inhibit access by the public to public or quasi-public facilities, such as
parks, schools, hiking and biking and equestrian trails and the like.
   (D)   Utility coordination. The plan shall show the layout of adjacent
utility facilities. Any utilities which are in conflict with the proposed gate
system shall be relocated at the applicant’s expense.
   (E)   Financial plan. The plan shall include a financial analysis
establishing that the gate-guarded facility shall be adequately maintained on a
permanent basis.
   (F)   Access by contract services. The applicant of the plan shall contact
all contract services, i.e., trash pickup and street cleaning, and provide
access to the gated community to allow for continued service.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-801) (Ord. 90-29, § 1, passed 11-20-1990)
§ 9-1-802 PLANS ENTAILING VACATION OF PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   Vacation procedure. Where a gate-guarded neighborhood plan includes a
request that the city vacate a public street, the city’s street vacation
procedures, as stipulated in City Council Resolution 90-71, shall address the
following additional provisions.
      (1)   In determining whether to vacate a public street as a part of a
gate-guarded neighborhood plan, the City Council will take into consideration
the aesthetic and financial impact on the city and social impacts arising from
the proposed vacation of the public streets, as part of the specified request
under review.
      (2)   Prior to consideration by the City Council, the Planning Commission
shall review the vacation request and shall make a recommendation to the City
Council.
      (3)   In order to ensure consistency, street vacation requests shall be
processed concurrently with the gate-guarded neighborhood plan and related site
development permit.
   (B)   Revocation of vacation of public street. The City Council reserves the
right to conditionally approve a vacation of a public street in a manner that
will allow the city to revoke the vacation of the street if the plan proponent
fails to abide by conditions of approval, or the plan implementation is
otherwise found to create a public health or safety hazard. If there is a
revocation, the gates must be removed.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-802) (Ord. 90-29, § 1, passed 11-20-1990)
§ 9-1-803 EXCEPTIONS TO DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Notwithstanding the standards set forth in this subchapter, the Planning
Commission, subject to final approval by the City Council, may make exceptions
to one or more of the design standards set forth in §
9-1-801 if it finds that:
   (A)   There would be no health or safety hazard created by the waiver of the
design standard; and
   (B)   Unique topographical features, including size of the neighborhood,
justify waiver of one or more of the design standards.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-803) (Ord. 90-29, § 1, passed 11-20-1990)
§ 9-1-804 REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Community Development Department review.
      (1)   The gate-guarded neighborhood request shall be subject to review
and action by the Planning Commission on a site development permit, which shall
be processed in accordance with §
9-1-114.1.
      (2)   The Community Development Department shall receive and certify the
gate-guarded neighborhood plan as complete. The Department shall then review
the application for its compliance with the design standards. The Department
shall also request comments from other city departments.
      (3)   The Community Development Department shall be responsible for
preparing, circulating and tabulating the second ballot as described in §
9-1-801(B).
      (4)   A report by the Community Development Director shall then be
prepared and forwarded to the Planning Commission for review and action.
      (5)   After action by the Planning Commission, the Community Development
Director shall prepare and forward a report on the recommended action to the
City Council.
   (B)   Planning Commission review. The Planning Commission shall review the
site development permit and street vacation concurrently, hold a public hearing
and make a recommendation to the City Council.
   (C)   City Council review.
      (1)   The City Council reserves sole discretion to grant or deny a plan
application. The City Council shall conduct a public hearing on any application
for a gate-guarded neighborhood plan.
      (2)   Any plan entailing a proposal for vacation of public streets shall
be subject to the notice and hearing provisions of California Streets and
Highways Code, §§ 8300 et seq.
      (3)   The City Council shall not approve any proposal unless it finds in
writing that all design and related criteria set forth in this subchapter have
been satisfied or waived and that the approval of the plan promotes the health,
welfare and safety of the community.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-804) (Ord. 90-29, § 1, passed 11-20-1990)
***** CHAPTER 2: SAND, GRAVEL AND MINERAL EXTRACTION CODE *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Regulations
9-2-1   Title
9-2-2   Purpose
9-2-3   Scope
9-2-4   Definitions
9-2-5   Definitions (A)
9-2-6   Definitions (C)
9-2-7   Definitions (D)
9-2-8   Definitions (E)
9-2-9   Definitions (M)
9-2-10   Definitions (O)
9-2-11   Definitions (P)
9-2-12   Definitions (Q)
9-2-13   Definitions (S)
9-2-14   Definitions (U)
9-2-15   Permits required
9-2-16   Permit procedure
9-2-17   Submission of site plans
9-2-18   Submission of reports and engineering data
9-2-19   Compliance with standards
9-2-20   Site inspections
9-2-21   Fees
9-2-22   Term and expiration of permit
9-2-23   Renewal of permit
9-2-24   Revocation of permit
9-2-25   Granting of permit not to authorize violation of law
9-2-26   Conformity to plans
9-2-27   Bonds
9-2-28   Abandonment
9-2-29   Standards for inoperative pits
9-2-30   Standards for active operations
9-2-31   Responsibility for compliance
9-2-32   Enforcement
 
9-2-33   Penalty
9-2-34   Right of appeal
Cross-reference:
Excavation and grading code, see §§
8-1-800 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. REGULATIONS ****
§ 9-2-1 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “sand, gravel and mineral extraction
code” of the city. All references to this subchapter shall include §§
9-2-1 through
9-2-34.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-2 PURPOSE.
   Due to the nature of existing or future pits which were or are being used or
shall be used for the mining, quarrying or commercial extraction of sand,
gravel, rock, aggregate, clay or similar materials, and operations for the
mining, quarrying or commercial extraction of sand, gravel, rock, aggregate,
clay or similar materials, this subchapter is adopted to safeguard life, limb,
property and the public welfare by establishing minimum safety standards for
the maintenance of pits and the mining, quarrying or commercial extraction of
sand, gravel, rock, aggregate, clay or similar materials within the city and to
establish procedures pursuant to which such standards are to be enforced.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-3 SCOPE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, all existing and
future pits or operations which are being and shall be or have been used for
mining, quarrying or commercial extraction of sand, gravel, rock, aggregate,
clay or similar materials within the city shall be maintained and conducted in
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Excavation operations incidental to the development of property in
which a specified quantity of material is to be removed to a predetermined
elevation so that, upon completion, the site will be left suitable for
development, and for which a valid grading permit is in force. However, this
exception shall not apply to any such excavation operations which cannot
reasonably be completed or are not completed within one year from the date
excavation operations are commenced; and
      (2)   Commercial processing or storage of sand, gravel, rock, aggregate,
clay or similar materials where no extraction or excavation operations other
than those regulated by a currently valid grading permit are conducted on the
site.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-4 DEFINITIONS.
   All references to this §
9-2-4 shall include §§
9-2-5 through
9-2-14. As used in this subchapter, the terms listed in §§
9-2-5 through
9-2-14 shall have the respective meanings set forth in such sections, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 9-2-5 DEFINITIONS (A).
   ABANDONMENT. The cessation of mining, quarrying and extraction operations on
the site in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-6 DEFINITIONS (C).
   CODE. The sand, gravel and mineral extraction code of the city.
   COMMERCIAL EXTRACTION OPERATION. The removal or displacement of sand,
gravel, rock, aggregate, clay or similar materials conducted for financial
gain.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-6) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-7 DEFINITIONS (D).
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Building and Safety of the city.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Building and Safety or their
regularly authorized deputy.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-7) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-8 DEFINITIONS (E).
   EXCAVATION, EXTRACTION and EXTRACTION OPERATION. See COMMERCIAL EXTRACTION
OPERATION.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-8) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-9 DEFINITIONS (M).
   MINING. The process of obtaining sand, gravel, rock, aggregate, clay or
similar materials from an open excavation in the earth for financial gain, but
not including the removal of minerals extracted by underground methods.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-9) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-10 DEFINITIONS (O).
   OPERATOR. The person, whether proprietor, lessee or independent contractor,
actually in charge and in control of the pit or operation being conducted upon
the site.
   OWNER. A person who owns a site upon which a pit is located or upon which
mining, quarrying or commercial extraction operations are being conducted or
may be conducted.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-10) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-11 DEFINITIONS (P).
   PERMIT. Any permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter,
together with the application for the permit; the conditions upon which it was
issued; and any plans, specifications, reports and approved modifications
pertaining thereto.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit is issued pursuant to the provisions
of this subchapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, corporation or joint venture
composed of individuals, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
   PIT. Any excavation or depression or hole in the ground, natural or
artificial, from which sand, gravel, rock, aggregate, clay or similar materials
are being or have been dug, mined, extracted or quarried.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-11) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-12 DEFINITIONS (Q).
   QUARRYING. The process of removing or extracting stone, rock or similar
materials from an open excavation for financial gain.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-12) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-13 DEFINITIONS (S).
   SETTLING BASIN. An area devoted to the storage of waste residue.
   SITE. A lot or parcel of land or a series of contiguous or adjacent lots or
parcels of land described by a lease or similar document upon which a pit is
located or upon which commercial extraction operations are being or may be
conducted, and which is covered by a permit.
   SLOPE. The exposed surface of an excavation or fill which forms an incline.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-13) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-14 DEFINITIONS (U).
   ULTIMATE RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right-of-way shown as ultimate on an adopted
precise plan of highway alignment, or a street right of-way shown within the
boundary of a recorded tract map, a recorded parcel map or a recorded PC
development plan. The latest adopted or recorded document in such cases shall
take precedence. If none of these exist, the ULTIMATE RIGHT-OF-WAY shall be
considered to be the right-of-way required by the highway classification as
shown on the master plan of arterial highways. In all other instances, the
ULTIMATE RIGHT-OF-WAY shall be considered to be the existing right-of-way in
the case of a private street, and the existing right-of-way, but not less than
60 feet, in the case of a public street.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-14) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-15 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall maintain a pit or commence or perform any operations or
activities within the scope of this subchapter without first obtaining the
appropriate permits to do so as specified in this section:
   (A)   Abandonment permit.
      (1)   Upon application to the Director by the owner or their legally
authorized agent, an abandonment permit shall be issued for any pit from which
no extraction operations have been conducted since the enactment of this
subchapter; provided the pit is found to comply with the provisions of §
9-2-29.
      (2)   No fee shall be charged for an abandonment permit. The Director may
waive the sections of this subchapter related to permit procedure as they deem
appropriate.
   (B)   Extraction permit.
      (1)   No person shall maintain a pit from which materials have been
extracted since the enactment of this subchapter or perform any extraction
operations or activities without first obtaining an extraction permit.
      (2)   An extraction permit may be issued by the Director for the
maintenance of pits from which no materials have been extracted since the
enactment of this subchapter; provided the pit is found to comply with §§
9-2-29 or
9-2-30 and all other applicable requirements of this subchapter have been met.
   (C)   Grading permit for repair of SG site.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
9-2-22, repair work required in order to bring a pit into compliance with the
provisions of §
9-2-29 shall be accomplished only after a grading permit for repair of an SG
site has been obtained, and the work shall be performed in compliance with the
terms of the permit.
      (2)   The Director may waive the sections of this subchapter related to
permit procedure as they deem appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-15) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-16 PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   An application for a permit signed by the owner or their legally authorized
agent shall be filed with the Department of Community Development upon forms
provided by that Department. The application shall be accompanied by a
description of the site and such fees, plans, reports and engineering data as
are outlined in §§
9-2-17,
9-2-18 and
9-2-21.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-16) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-17 SUBMISSION OF SITE PLANS.
   (A)   Plans signed by a registered civil engineer or licensed land surveyor
shall be submitted by the operator or their authorized agent with an
application for a permit.
   (B)   Plans of the site shall be drawn to a scale of one inch equals 100
feet, unless otherwise specified by the Director.
   (C)   The plans shall include, but not be limited to, the following items:
      (1)   Property lines and lease lines, in addition to plans of the site;
      (2)   Contours at five-foot intervals unless otherwise specified by the
Director;
      (3)   Required setbacks;
      (4)   Location of all existing and proposed structures, including
processing plants and other appurtenant equipment;
      (5)   Location of existing and proposed points of ingress and egress,
haul roads, driveways and parking areas;
      (6)   Location and approximate depth of existing and proposed settling
basins, desilting ponds and other bodies of water;
      (7)   Method of disposing of drainage;
      (8)   The area to be excavated, and typical cross sections of slopes to
be formed or modified; and
      (9)   Location of existing and proposed fencing.
   (D)   The Director shall have the prerogative of requiring the owner or
operator to furnish periodic plans and reports if this is necessary to
determine compliance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-17) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-18 SUBMISSION OF REPORTS AND ENGINEERING DATA.
   Reports and engineering data, prepared by a registered civil engineer or a
registered engineering geologist, which are pertinent to the pit or operation
shall accompany the application where the operator or permittee proposes to
establish setbacks less than or slopes steeper than those specified in §§
9-2-29 and
9-2-30, or where required pursuant to §§
9-2-29 and
9-2-30 due to close proximity to a watercourse or groundwater.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-18) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-19 COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS.
   The permit application, plans, reports and engineering data shall indicate
compliance with the standards specified in §§
9-2-29 and
9-2-30.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-19) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-20 SITE INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Prior to approval of any plans or the issuance of a permit, the
Director may inspect the site to determine that the plans, reports or other
data are accurate and sufficient.
   (B)   The Director shall inspect each site regulated by this subchapter at
the time of payment of annual fees as required by §
9-2-21(B) and at such other times as they deem necessary, for the purpose of
ascertaining whether the operations are being conducted and the site maintained
in conformity with the minimum standards of this code and applicable permits.
   (C)   Whenever the Director determines that the work does not comply with
the terms of the permit or requirements of this subchapter, or that the soil or
other conditions are not as stated on the permit, they shall notify the
permittee of such fact in writing, demanding compliance within 30 days from the
date of such notice. If the permittee has not, within the stated time, complied
with the terms of the permit or requirements of this subchapter, or given
reasonable assurances that steps are being taken to comply, the Director may
order the cessation of all work or any portion thereof, and such work shall
cease until the requirements of the permit and of this subchapter have been
met.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-20) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-21 FEES.
   (A)   Plan checking and processing fee. With the submission of an
application for a permit, or whenever new plans are required to be submitted
for review by the Department, a plan checking and processing fee shall be paid
by the applicant. The fees for plan checking and processing shall be as set
forth in the schedule of fees and charges established by resolution of the City
Council.
   (B)   Permit and inspection fee. An annual fee in the amount specified in
this division (B) shall be submitted to the Department by July 1 of each year
to cover the cost of inspection for the subsequent fiscal year, except that the
initial fee shall be prorated on the basis of the portion of the fiscal year
remaining, with a minimum fee of $100.00. The annual permit and inspection fee
shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges established by
resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-21) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-22 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Each extraction permit issued for an existing or proposed operation
shall continue in effect only as long as none of the provisions of this
subchapter are violated and as long as the annual permit fees have been paid.
   (B)   (1)   The extraction permit shall expire on July 1, unless the annual
permit and inspection fees for the subsequent fiscal year have been paid by
that date. No operations other than such corrective work as may be designated
by the Director shall be conducted after such date, unless a new permit has
been approved by the Director.
      (2)   In the case of existing pits, this corrective work shall include
compliance with all the provisions of §
9-2-29.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-22) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-23 RENEWAL OF PERMIT.
   Any extraction permit that has expired or been revoked may be renewed by
making application to the Department, upon the following conditions.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit an application, up-to-date plans, reports
and other data as specified by this subchapter or required by the Director.
   (B)   The site shall be in compliance with all applicable provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Payment shall be made of the fees required by §
9-2-21.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-23) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-24 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Director may revoke any permit, in whole or in part, if, after
notification and demand as provided in §
9-2-20, the pit or work covered by the permit has been materially extended
beyond the limits of the permit, or if any fences or walls or other protective
devices required by this subchapter have not been constructed or maintained in
good repair, or if other provisions of this subchapter have been violated by
the operator, owner or permittee.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-24) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-25 GRANTING OF PERMIT NOT TO AUTHORIZE VIOLATION OF LAW.
   The issuance, granting or renewal of a permit shall not be deemed or
construed to be a permit for or an approval of any violation of the provisions
of this subchapter or any other code, and no permit presuming to give authority
to violate or cancel the provisions of this subchapter shall be valid except
insofar as the work or use which is authorized by the issuance, granting or
renewal of the permit is lawful.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-25) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-26 CONFORMITY TO PLANS.
   Upon issuance of a permit, the plans submitted by the applicant shall be
approved and so stamped by the department. The pit and all work pertinent
thereto shall be maintained in conformity with the approved plans, unless
authorization to modify the pit or operation is obtained from the Director and
the plans and records are so changed and noted.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-26) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-27 BONDS.
   A corporate surety bond in the form and amount specified in this section
shall be submitted by each applicant for a permit to perform any mining,
quarrying or commercial extraction of rock, sand, gravel, aggregate, clay or
similar products on private property in the city.
   (A)   Every bond shall be executed by the operator for the faithful
performance of the work to be undertaken and by a corporate surety insurer
authorized to do business in this state as surety, or, in lieu thereof, a
written agreement for such performance shall be submitted accompanied by a
deposit in cash or such other financial security as shall be approved by the
Director and City Attorney.
   (B)   Every bond shall be in a form approved by the City Attorney.
   (C)   Every bond or agreement in lieu thereof shall be conditioned that the
operator shall faithfully comply with all provisions of this subchapter until
the site is properly abandoned in conformity with the provisions of §§
9-2-28 and
9-2-29.
   (D)   The bond or agreement in lieu thereof shall secure the city against
all costs, charges and expenses caused by the failure of the principal to fully
comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   The bond or other security shall be in the amount established by
resolution of the City Council, except that one operator or company may post a
blanket bond in the sum of $40,000.00 to cover all operations of that company
in the city.
   (F)   Whenever the Director finds that a default has occurred in the
performance of any requirement of this subchapter, written notice as provided
in §
9-2-20 shall be given to the principal and surety on the bond, or depositor, as
the case may be. Such notice shall specify the default and demand correction
within 30 days, or such longer time as the Director may allow, on penalty of
forfeiture of the reasonable costs of making the necessary corrections by the
city. The Director shall proceed by such mode as they deem convenient to cause
the required work to be performed and completed.
   (G)   Any bond issued in compliance with this section shall be exonerated
and the surety relieved of all obligations thereunder when the Director
certifies that the site has been abandoned in conformity with all regulations
of this subchapter.
   (H)   A substitute bond may be filed in lieu of any bond on file under this
section, and the Director shall accept and file the substitute bond if it is
qualified and in proper form and substance and the bond for which it is
substituted shall be exonerated, but only if the Director finds that no default
exists as to performance upon which the bond is conditioned, to date of
substitution.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-27) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-28 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Whenever a pit or excavation operation is to be abandoned, the
operator shall notify the Director in writing of their intention to abandon the
pit or operation at least 30 days prior to such abandonment.
   (B)   The Director shall inspect the site prior to the date of proposed
abandonment and notify the operator of what protective devices or structures
and what corrective measures are or may be necessary for the protection of
adjacent properties and the general public as specified in §
9-2-29. The Director shall also notify the property owner and the operator what
assurance, if any, they require for the continued maintenance of protective
devices and future correction of possible unsafe conditions as may occur.
   (C)   Within 30 days after the abandonment of the pit or operation, the
Director shall again inspect the site for compliance with §
9-2-29 and notify both the property owner and the operator of their findings.
   (D)   Whenever the Director determines that the site has been abandoned in
accordance with the provisions of §
9-2-29, they shall so note on the permit.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-28) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-29 STANDARDS FOR INOPERATIVE PITS.
   Each pit not currently in use for commercial extraction operations shall be
maintained in accordance with the following minimum standards.
   (A)   Setback and slopes.
      (1)   (a)   The finished perimeter slope shall not be steeper than one
and one-half feet horizontal to one foot vertical projecting into the pit from
a 50-foot setback adjacent to the perimeter of the property.
         (b)   In addition, where the Director determines there is a
possibility of potentially hazardous seepage or flow into a pit from a flood
control channel, reservoir, conservation or flood-retarding basin or natural
watercourse, they shall establish the setback and slope requirements based on
the preservation of the integrity of the existing flood control channel,
reservoir, conservation or flood-retarding basin or natural watercourse, so
that the subject property shall continue to receive and carry off waters in a
manner equal to that experienced prior to any excavation. Setback requirements
imposed under this division (A)(1)(b) may exceed the 50-foot requirement set
forth in this section, in the discretion of the Director, but such setbacks may
not be less than 50 feet as set forth in division (A)(1)(a) above. Slope
requirements may be greater or less than that set forth in division (A)(1)(a)
above in the discretion of the Director. The applicant may be required to
furnish reports and engineering data, as set forth in §
9-2-18, to justify the setback and slope requirement requested in such a case.
The Director may require such reports in any case.
         (c)   Where the Director determines that the pit extends below or in
the future may extend below groundwater elevations, the slopes shall not be
steeper than the safe values as determined by the Director, based on the
reports described in §
9-2-18, which reports may be required by the Director in such a case.
      (2)   These requirements may be modified by the Director in cases where
safety conditions and engineering and geological data submitted to the Director
for approval indicate that a less restrictive setback or slope may be
permitted.
   (B)   Diversion of watercourse. No pit shall be maintained in or adjacent to
the floodplain of any watercourse which, by reason of the excavation’s shape,
location, berm elevations or area, in the opinion of the Director, is likely to
produce a diversion of the natural watercourse away from the pit and outside
the natural watercourse if flow from the watercourse enters the excavation.
   (C)   Drainage. Adequate provision for conveyance of water across and from
the site and for long-term retention of water shall be accomplished so as to
minimize potential dangers from landslide and erosion.
   (D)   Fencing.
      (1)   Other than in cases where data is submitted to the Director for
approval and which data indicates to the Director that no safety hazards exist,
a fence shall be constructed enclosing the area of each existing pit. The fence
shall be of steel, chain link type and a minimum of six feet in height above
the existing grade of property outside the fenced area. The bottom of the fence
shall conform to the ground surface so as to prevent any opening between it and
the ground surface exceeding four inches.
      (2)   Gates of the same material and height as the fence shall be
installed at all points of vehicular or pedestrian ingress and egress. The
gates shall be equipped with keyed locks and shall be kept locked at all times
when not in regular use. The fence, gates and locks shall be maintained in good
condition and repair.
   (E)   Correction and repair of protective devices. Whenever the Director
determines that maintenance of protective devices or structures or the
correction of potentially unsafe conditions may be necessary for the protection
of adjacent properties and the general public, they shall notify in writing the
owner or other responsible person, who shall take such corrective action as
necessary and shall post a surety bond or other financial security in an amount
sufficient to ensure the continued maintenance of the protective devices for
such potentially unsafe conditions. A grading permit will be required for any
repair work. The fees for such permit shall be as specified by the grading code
of the city, unless such fees are waived by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-29) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-30 STANDARDS FOR ACTIVE OPERATIONS.
   The mining, quarrying and commercial extraction of sand, gravel, rock,
aggregate, clay or similar products shall be performed in accordance with the
following minimum standards.
   (A)   Setbacks.
      (1)   No excavation activities shall be carried on within 50 feet of:
         (a)   The common property line of any parcel of land not used for the
same purpose; and
         (b)   The ultimate right-of-way of any public street, either existing
or whose precise alignment has been adopted by the City Council.
      (2)   In addition, where the Director determines there is a possibility
of potentially hazardous seepage or flow into a pit from a flood control
channel, reservoir, conservation or flood-retarding basin or natural
watercourse, they shall establish the setback requirements based on the
preservation of the integrity of the existing flood control channel, reservoir,
conservation or flood-retarding basin or natural watercourse, so that the
subject property shall continue to receive and carry off waters in a manner
equal to that experienced prior to any excavation.
      (3)   Setback requirements imposed under this section may exceed the 50-
foot requirement set forth in this section, in the discretion of the Director,
but such setbacks may not be less than 50 feet, as set forth in division (A)(1)
above. The applicant may be required to furnish reports and engineering data,
as set forth in §
9-2-18, to justify the setback requirement requested in such a case. The
Director may require such reports in any case.
   (B)   Slopes.
      (1)   Where the Director determines there is a potentially hazardous
seepage into a pit from a flood channel, reservoir, conservation or flood-
retarding basin or natural watercourse, or where the Director determines that
the pit extends below or in the future may extend below groundwater elevations,
the finished perimeter slope shall not be steeper than two and one-half feet
horizontal to one foot vertical, except as provided in division (B)(3) below.
      (2)   The finished perimeter slope shall not be steeper than one and one-
half feet horizontal to one foot vertical projecting into the pit from the
required setback line adjacent to the perimeter of the property.
      (3)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above notwithstanding, the slope
requirement may be modified by the Director in cases where the Director
determines that the proposed excavation operations present a potential hazard
to adjacent property, or where other safety conditions and engineering or
geological data, as described in §
9-2-18, submitted to the Director for approval, or as may be required by them,
indicate that less restrictive slopes may be permitted or more restrictive
slopes may be required.
   (C)   Diversion of watercourse. No excavation shall be made or pit
maintained in or adjacent to the floodplain of any watercourse which by reason
of the excavation’s shape, location, berm elevations or area, in the opinion of
the Director, is likely to produce a diversion of a natural watercourse away
from the pit and outside the natural watercourse if flow from the watercourse
enters the excavation.
   (D)   Drainage. Adequate provisions for conveyance of water across and from
the site and for long-term retention of water shall be accomplished in a manner
meeting the approval of the Director so as to minimize potential dangers from
landslide and erosion.
   (E)   Fencing. Prior to the commencement or continuation of any excavation
or extraction operations or the construction or use of any settling basin, a
fence shall be constructed enclosing the area of the proposed or existing
excavation or settling basin, or the entire site, other than in cases where
data is submitted to the Director for approval and which data indicates to the
Director that no substantial safety hazards exist. The fence shall be of a
steel, chain link type and a minimum of six feet in height above the existing
grade of property outside the fenced area. The bottom of the fence shall
conform to the ground surface so as to prevent any opening between it and the
ground surface exceeding four inches. Gates of the same material and height as
the fence shall be installed at all points of vehicular or pedestrian ingress
and egress. The gates shall be equipped with keyed locks and shall be kept
locked at all times when not in regular use. The fence, gates and locks shall
be maintained in good condition and repair.
   (F)   Boundary markers.
      (1)   The site shall be surveyed by a registered civil engineer or
licensed surveyor and shall be defined by a series of poles (two and one-half-
inch pipe) six feet in height measured from the ground level and painted a
bright color, which shall be installed and maintained at each change of
direction and along the entire length of the subject site in such a manner that
an individual standing at one such pole can clearly see the next pole in either
direction.
      (2)   For good cause shown, the Director may waive or modify this
requirement for any extraction operations that are proposed to result in
finished elevations that are not below the average natural ground elevations at
the perimeter of the site, or for any extraction operations proposed to be
located more than 1,000 feet from any property lines.
   (G)   Posting of signs.
      (1)   Within 90 days after a permit has been issued pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter, the outer boundaries of the site shall be
continuously posted with signs not less than 500 feet apart and at each change
of direction of the boundary line in such a manner as will reasonably give
notice to passersby of matters contained in such notice, stating in letters not
less than four inches in height: “PUBLIC NOTICE” and stating the following in
letters not less than one inch in height:
“THIS PROPERTY MAY BE USED FOR THE MINING, QUARRYING OR COMMERCIAL EXTRACTION
OF SAND, GRAVEL, ROCK, AGGREGATE, CLAY AND SIMILAR MATERIALS SUBJECT TO PERMITS
WHICH HAVE BEEN ISSUED BY THE DIRECTOR OF BUILDING AND SAFETY, CITY OF LAGUNA
NIGUEL.”
      (2)   The signs shall be of wood or metal and shall be maintained in
legible condition at all times. Signs posted in compliance with the SG District
regulations of the zoning code shall be considered as satisfying this section.
The Director may waive this requirement for good cause shown.
   (H)   Ingress, egress and traffic safety.
      (1)   Roads providing vehicular access to public highways which are used
for transporting materials shall be located only at points designated on plans
as approved by the City Road Department. Adequate sight distance shall be
maintained for traffic safety and a distance of not less than 80 feet from the
intersection of the drive or access road with the right-of-way line of the
public highway shall be paved for a width of not less than 12 feet.
      (2)   In addition, that portion of the access road lying between the
right-of-way line and the existing pavement of the public highway shall be
constructed in accordance with the terms of an encroachment permit issued by
the Road Department, or, in the case of state highways, issued by the
California Division of Highways.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-30) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-31 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   (1)   The permittee, operator, property owner and their authorized
agents, and any other person in control of the property, individually and
collectively, are responsible for the observation of and compliance with all
the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Such responsibility shall include the correction of any unsafe
condition and the construction and continued maintenance of all fences and
other protective devices required by this subchapter or as deemed necessary by
the Director to protect the general public and adjacent properties.
   (B)   In case the owner or other responsible person shall fail, neglect or
refuse to perform the required corrections, maintenance or repairs within the
time specified in §
9-2-20, after being notified in writing to do so by the Director, the Director
shall cause the required corrections, repairs or maintenance to be done, and
the cost thereof shall be a charge and expense against the owner and the land.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-31) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-32 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Director to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter. If at any time the Director finds that any owner, permittee or
operator is violating any of the provisions of the subchapter, they may order
compliance in the manner provided in §
9-2-20. If compliance does not proceed, the Director may, at the end of 30
days, or in the absence of reasonable assurance given as provided in §
9-2-20, order immediate cessation of operations.
   (B)   If, in the opinion of the Director, an immediate and substantial
hazard exists to adjacent property or the general public, the Director may
order immediate cessation of that portion of the operation which may contribute
to such a hazard within the 30-day period; provided in §
9-2-20, which cessation shall continue until correction of the hazardous
condition.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-32) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-33 PENALTY.
   Any person in violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than $500.00 or by imprisonment in the city
jail for a period of not more than six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. Each such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for
each day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions
of this subchapter is committed, continued or permitted by such person, and
shall be punishable therefor as provided in this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-33) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-2-34 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   The operator, permittee or owner shall have the right to appeal
determinations of the Director under this subchapter within 14 days of any such
determination to the Grading Board of Appeals as defined by the grading code of
the city, by filing a written request with the Director specifically outlining
which determinations are being appealed. The operator, permittee or owner may
present such evidence as they deem necessary to support their appeal.
   (B)   The decisions of the Grading Board of Appeals, relating to §§
9-2-29(A), (B) and (C) and §§
9-2-30(A), (B), (C) and (D) shall be final. All other determinations of this
body may be appealed to the City Council within 14 days of the decision of the
Grading Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-34) (Ord. 90-11, § 14, passed 3-6-1990)
***** CHAPTER 3: UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICTS *****
Section
Subchapter 1. General Provisions
9-3-1   Definitions
9-3-2   Public hearing
9-3-3   Report by Director of Community Development
9-3-4   Designation of districts
9-3-5   Unlawful acts
9-3-6   Exceptions for emergency or unusual circumstances
9-3-7   Additional exceptions
9-3-8   Notice to property owners and utility companies
9-3-9   Responsibility of utility companies
9-3-10   Responsibility of property owners
9-3-11   Enforcement
9-3-12   Responsibility of city
9-3-13   Extension of time
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 9-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The California Public Utilities Commission.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Community Development of the city.
   PERSON. Includes, but is not limited to, individuals, firms, corporations
and partnerships, and their agents and employees.
   POLES, OVERHEAD WIRES and ASSOCIATED OVERHEAD STRUCTURES. Poles, towers,
supporters, wires, conductors, cables, guys, stubs, platforms, crossarms,
braces, transformers, insulators, cutouts, switches, communications circuits,
appliances, attachments and appurtenances located above ground within a
district and used or useful in supplying electric, communication, community
antenna television or a similar or associated service.
   UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICT or DISTRICT. The area within the city within
which poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures are prohibited,
as such area is described in a resolution adopted pursuant to the provisions of
§
9-3-4.
   UTILITY. All persons supplying electric, communication, community antenna
television or a similar or associated service.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 15, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 9-3-2 PUBLIC HEARING.
   The City Council may from time to time call public hearings to ascertain
whether the public health, safety or welfare requires the removal of poles,
overhead wires and associated overhead structures within designated areas of
the city and the underground installation of wires and facilities for supplying
electric, communication, community antenna television or similar or associated
service. The City Clerk shall notify all affected property owners, as shown on
the last equalized assessment roll, and all utilities concerned, by mail,
postage prepaid, of the time and place of such hearings, at least ten days
prior to the date thereof. Each such hearing shall be open to the public and
may be continued from time to time. At each such hearing, all persons
interested shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2) (Ord. 90-11, § 15, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-3-3 REPORT BY DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.
   Prior to holding such public hearing, the Director of Community Development
or their representative shall consult with all affected utilities and shall
prepare a report for submission at such hearing, containing, among other
information, the extent of such utilities’ participation and estimates of the
total costs to the city and affected property owners. Such report shall also
contain an estimate of the time required to complete such underground
installation and removal of overhead facilities.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3) (Ord. 90-11, § 15, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-3-4 DESIGNATION OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   (1)   If, after any such public hearing as described in §
9-3-2, the City Council finds that the public health, safety or welfare
requires the removal of poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures and requires the underground installation of wires and facilities
for supplying electric, communication, community antenna television or similar
or associated service within a designated area, and the City Council determines
that such undergrounding is in the general public interest for one or more of
the following reasons:
         (a)   Such undergrounding will avoid or eliminate an unusually heavy
concentration of overhead facilities;
         (b)   The street or road or right-of-way is extensively used by the
general public and carries a heavy volume of pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
and
         (c)   The street or road or right-of-way adjoins or passes through a
civic area or public recreation area or an area of unusual scenic interest to
the general public.
      (2)   The City Council shall, by resolution, declare the designated area
an underground utility district and shall order the removal and underground
installation of such facilities. The decision of the City Council shall be
final and conclusive.
   (B)   Immediately following its adoption, the City Clerk shall cause a
certified copy of the resolution to be recorded in the office of the County
Recorder. The resolution shall include a description and map of the area
comprising the district, and will also provide that the City Council shall by
subsequent resolution fix the time within which:
      (1)   The individual properties in the district must be ready to receive
underground service; and
      (2)   Poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures shall be
removed.
   (C)   A reasonable time shall be allowed for such removal and underground
installation, having due regard for the availability of labor, materials and
equipment necessary for such removal and for the installation of such
underground facilities as may be occasioned thereby.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4) (Ord. 90-11, § 15, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-3-5 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   Whenever the City Council creates an underground utility district and orders
the removal of poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures therein
as provided in §
9-3-4, it shall be unlawful for any person or utility to erect, construct,
place, keep, maintain, continue, employ or operate poles, overhead wires and
associated overhead structures in the district after the date when the overhead
facilities are required to be removed by such resolution, unless such
facilities are specifically excluded from the undergrounding requirement in the
resolution or except as provided in this subchapter. Overhead facilities may,
however, be permitted to remain temporarily, if required to furnish service to
an owner or occupant of property, for a reasonable period of time prior to the
performance by such owner or occupant of the underground work necessary for
such owner or occupant to continue to receive utility service, as provided in §
9-3-10, and for such reasonable time as is required to remove the facilities
after the work has been performed, and as otherwise provided in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-5) (Ord. 90-11, § 15, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-3-6 EXCEPTIONS FOR EMERGENCY OR UNUSUAL CIRCUMSTANCES.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this subchapter, overhead facilities may
be installed and maintained for a period not to exceed ten days without
authority of the City Council in order to provide emergency service.
Additionally, the City Council may grant special permission, on such terms as
the Council may deem appropriate, in cases of unusual circumstances, without
discrimination as to any person or utility, to erect, construct, install,
maintain, use or operate poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-6) (Ord. 90-11, § 15, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-3-7 ADDITIONAL EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter and any resolution adopted pursuant to §
9-3-4 shall, unless otherwise provided in such resolution, not apply to the
following types of facilities:
   (A)   Any city facilities or equipment installed under the supervision and
to the satisfaction of the Director of Community Development;
   (B)   Poles and associated overhead structures used exclusively for street
lighting;
   (C)   Overhead wires which originate on a pole outside the boundaries of a
district and terminate at a point of service on a building within the district;
   (D)   Overhead wires attached to the exterior surface of a building by means
of a bracket or other fixture and extending from one location of the building
to another location on the same building or to an adjacent building without
crossing any public street;
   (E)   Antennas, associated equipment and supporting structures used by a
utility for furnishing communications services;
   (F)   Equipment appurtenant to underground facilities, such as surface-
mounted transformers, pedestal-mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets,
concealed ducts, cable TV pedestals and amplifier cabinets;
   (G)   Temporary poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures
used or to be used in conjunction with construction projects; and
   (H)   Stub poles, anchors and guy wires originating in the district but used
to support poles outside the district.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-7) (Ord. 90-11, § 15, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-3-8 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS AND UTILITY COMPANIES.
   (A)   Notification of creation of district.
      (1)   Within ten days after the effective date of a resolution adopted
pursuant to §
9-3-4, the City Clerk shall notify all affected utilities and all affected
property owners within the district created by the resolution of the adoption
thereof. The Clerk shall further notify such affected property owners of the
necessity that, if they or any person occupying such property desire to
continue to receive electric, communication, community antenna television or
similar or associated service, they or such occupant, at their own expense,
shall provide all necessary facility changes on their premises so as to receive
underground service from the underground lines of the supplying utilities,
subject to the applicable rules, regulations and tariffs of the respective
utilities on file with the Public Utilities Commission and to all other
applicable requirements of state laws and city ordinances.
      (2)   Notifications by the Clerk shall be made by mailing a copy of the
resolution adopted pursuant to §
9-3-4, together with a copy of this subchapter, to affected property owners as
such are shown on the last equalized assessment roll and to the affected
utilities.
   (B)   Notice of deadline for change of facilities.
      (1)   Within 15 days of adoption by the City Council of the resolution
fixing the time within which conversions on private property and pole removal
must be accomplished, the City Clerk shall further notify all affected
utilities and affected persons that the work required to change the facilities
on the premises so as to receive electric, communication or community antenna
television or similar or associated service provided or to be provided by the
utility company shall be accomplished on or before the applicable date set
forth in the resolution. This notice shall also state the date all poles and
related overhead structures are to be removed from within the district.
      (2)   Notification by the Clerk shall be made by mailing a copy of this
resolution to affected property owners as such are shown on the last equalized
assessment roll and to the affected utilities.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-8) (Ord. 90-11, § 15, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-3-9 RESPONSIBILITY OF UTILITY COMPANIES.
   If underground construction is necessary to provide utility service within
the district created by any resolution adopted pursuant to §
9-3-4, the supplying utility shall furnish that portion of the conduits,
conductors and associated equipment required to be furnished by it under its
applicable rules, regulations and tariffs on file with the Public Utilities
Commission and all other applicable requirements of state laws and city
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-9) (Ord. 90-11, § 15, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-3-10 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Every person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or renting a building or
structure within a district shall provide for the construction of that portion
of the service connection on their property between the facilities referred to
in §
9-3-9 and the termination facility on or within the building or structure being
served.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-10) (Ord. 90-11, § 15, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-3-11 ENFORCEMENT.
   If any person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or renting the property
does not comply with §
9-3-10 within the time specified in the resolution adopted pursuant to §§
9-3-4 and
9-3-8(B), the Director of Community Development shall proceed as follows.
   (A)   They shall give notice in writing to the person in possession of such
premises, and notice in writing to the owner thereof as shown on the last
equalized assessment roll, to provide the required underground facilities
within ten days after receipt of such notice.
   (B)   The notice to provide the required underground facilities may be given
either by personal service or by mail. In case of service by mail, the notice
shall be deposited in the United States mail, in a sealed envelope with postage
prepaid, addressed to the person in possession of such premises at such
premises, and to the owner thereof. If notice is given by mail, such notice
shall be deemed to have been received by the person to whom it is sent within
48 hours after the mailing thereof. If notice is given by mail to either the
owner or occupant of such premises, the Director shall, within 48 hours after
the mailing thereof, cause a copy thereof, printed on a card not less than
eight inches by ten inches in size, to be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises.
   (C)   The notice given by the Director to provide the required underground
facilities shall particularly specify that work is required to be done and
shall state that, if the work is not completed within 30 days after receipt of
such notice, the Director will provide such required underground facilities, in
which case the cost and expense thereof, including engineering, legal,
advertising and all incidental expenses, will be assessed against the property
benefitted and become a lien upon such property.
   (D)   If, upon the expiration of the 30-day period, the required underground
facilities have not been provided, the Director shall forthwith proceed to do
the work; provided, however, that, if such premises are unoccupied and no
electric or communication services are being furnished thereto, the Director
may, in lieu of providing the underground facilities, authorize the
disconnection and removal of any and all overhead service wires and associated
facilities supplying utility service to the property. Upon completion of the
work by the Director, they shall file a written report with the City Council
setting forth the fact that the required underground facilities have been
provided and the cost thereof, together with a legal description of the
property against which such cost is to be assessed. The Council shall thereupon
fix a time and place for hearing protests against the assessment of the cost of
such work upon such premises, which time shall not be less than ten days
thereafter.
   (E)   The Director shall forthwith, upon the time for hearing such protests
having been fixed, give notice in writing to the person in possession of such
premises, and a notice in writing thereof to the owner thereof, in the manner
provided in this section for giving of the notice to provide the required
underground facilities, of the time and place that the City Council will pass
upon such report and will hear protests against such assessment. Such notice
shall also set forth the amount of the proposed assessment.
   (F)   Upon the date and hour set for the hearing of protests, the City
Council shall hear and consider the report and all protests, if there are any,
and proceed to affirm, modify or reject the assessment.
   (G)   If any assessment is not paid within five days after its confirmation
by the City Council, the amount of the assessment shall become a lien upon the
property against which the assessment was made by the Director, and the
Director shall deliver to the Assessor and Tax Collector of the county a notice
of lien on each of the properties on which the assessment has not been paid,
and the Assessor and Tax Collector shall add the amount of the assessment to
the next regular bill for taxes levied against the premises upon which the
assessment was not paid. The assessment shall be due and payable at the same
time property taxes are due and payable and, if delinquent, shall bear the same
penalties as prescribed for delinquent real property taxes.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-11) (Ord. 90-11, § 15, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-3-12 RESPONSIBILITY OF CITY.
   The city shall remove, at its own expense, all city-owned equipment from all
poles required to be removed under this chapter in ample time to enable the
owner or user of such poles to remove the poles within the time specified in
the resolution adopted pursuant to §
9-3-4.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-12) (Ord. 90-11, § 15, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 9-3-13 EXTENSION OF TIME.
   If any act required by this subchapter or by a resolution adopted pursuant
to §
9-3-4 cannot be performed within the time provided on account of shortage of
materials, war, restraint by public authorities, strikes, labor disturbances,
civil disobedience or any other circumstances beyond the control of the actor,
then the time within which such act will be accomplished shall be extended for
a period equivalent to the time of such limitation.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-13) (Ord. 90-11, § 15, passed 3-6-1990)
TITLE 10: ANIMALS
Chapter
   1.   ANIMAL CONTROL, WELFARE AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
   2.   ADDITIONAL OR UNUSUAL ANIMAL PERMITS, LICENSING OF ANIMAL FACILITIES,
EXHIBITIONS AND ANIMALS EVENTS
   3.   ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS FOR TITLE 10 VIOLATIONS
***** CHAPTER 1: ANIMAL CONTROL, WELFARE AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS *****
Section
Subchapter 1. General Provisions
10-1-1   Definitions
10-1-2   Definitions (A)
10-1-3   Reserved
10-1-4   Definitions (C)
10-1-5   Definitions (D)
10-1-6   Reserved
10-1-7   Definitions (F)
10-1-8   Definitions (G)
10-1-9   Reserved
10-1-10   Definitions (I)
10-1-11   Reserved
10-1-12   Definitions (K)
10-1-13   Definitions (L)
10-1-14   Reserved
10-1-15   Definitions (N)
10-1-16   Reserved
10-1-17   Definitions (P)
10-1-18   Definitions (Q)
10-1-19   Reserved
10-1-20   Definitions (S)
10-1-21   Definitions (T)
10-1-22   Reserved
10-1-23   Definitions (V)
10-1-24—10-1-27   Reserved
10-1-28   Administration of title
10-1-29   Additional rules and regulations
10-1-30   Enforcement of title; issuance of citations
10-1-31   Interference with enforcing officers
10-1-32   Authority of animal control officers to carry firearms
10-1-33   Disposal of dead animals
10-1-34   Violation of title
10-1-35   Inspections
10-1-36   Investigation of complaints
10-1-37   Prosecution of the offender; cumulative remedies
10-1-38   Animal care requirements
10-1-39   Sale of animals
10-1-40   Prohibiting the feeding of wildlife
10-1-41—10-1-44   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Keeping and Restraint of Dogs and Cats
10-1-45   Restraint of dogs
10-1-46   Dogs on public school property
10-1-47   Female cats and dogs in season to confined
10-1-48   Public nuisance
10-1-49   Permitting animal to go on property of another
10-1-50   Animal waste
10-1-51   Public protection from dogs
10-1-52   Nuisance complaint administrative procedures
10-1-53   Animal nuisance administrative fine amount; late payment charges
10-1-54   Abatement of nuisances through legal action; cumulative remedies
10-1-55   Animals in unattended vehicles
10-1-56—10-1-59   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Rabies Control
10-1-60   Dog vaccination required
10-1-61   Quarantine
10-1-62   Report of animals suspected of having rabies or biting or scratching
human
10-1-63   Proof of vaccination
10-1-64   Vaccination certificate
10-1-65—10-1-69   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Dog Licensing; Animal Permit
10-1-70   Dog license required
10-1-71   Wearing of dog license tag
10-1-72   Dog license renewal
10-1-73   Transfer of dog license
10-1-74   False or stolen documents or tag
10-1-75   Display of vaccination certificate or tag
10-1-76   Number of animals permitted
10-1-77—10-1-84   Reserved
Subchapter 5. Cat Licensing
10-1-85   License certificate and tag
10-1-86—10-1-93   Reserved
Subchapter 6. Dangerous and Vicious Animals
10-1-94   Keeping of wild, exotic, dangerous or nondomestic animals
10-1-95   Declaration and possession of vicious dog or potentially dangerous
dog
10-1-96—10-1-104   Reserved
Subchapter 7. Animal Impoundment
10-1-105   Animals subject to impoundment
10-1-106   Retention of animals to be reported to Director
10-1-107   Unauthorized removal of animals from official custody
10-1-108   Redemption of animals from animal shelter
10-1-109   Sale of unredeemed impounded animals
10-1-110   Disposition of impounded animals by euthanasia
10-1-111   Neutering of impounded animals
10-1-112   Unauthorized disposition of impounded animals
10-1-113—10-1-126   Reserved
Subchapter 8. Livestock Running at Large
10-1-127   Animal defined
10-1-128   Permitting animal to run at large; staking or grazing on property of
another
10-1-129   Impoundment
10-1-130   Sale of unclaimed impounded animals
10-1-131   Disposition of impounded animals valued at less than $20.00
10-1-132—10-1-142   Reserved
Subchapter 9. Keeping of Livestock
10-1-143   Keeping of livestock, fowl
10-1-144—10-1-154   Reserved
Subchapter 10. Animal Health
10-1-155   Subchapter supplemental to state law
10-1-156   Appointment of County Veterinarian
10-1-157   Duties of County Veterinarian
10-1-158   Establishment of quarantine
10-1-159—10-1-163   Reserved
10-1-164   Investigation of diseased animals; powers of County Veterinarian
10-1-165   Damaging or removing quarantine notice
10-1-166   Removal of livestock from slaughterhouse
10-1-167   Bringing livestock affected with infectious disease into city
10-1-168   Report of arrival and identification of dairy cattle
10-1-169—10-1-173   Reserved
10-1-174   Unauthorized tuberculin injection
10-1-175   Interfering with tuberculin test
10-1-176   Testing of cattle for tuberculosis
10-1-177   Identification and disposition of cattle afflicted with tuberculosis
10-1-178   Confinement of livestock for purpose of testing or inoculation
10-1-179   Report of infectious diseases
10-1-180   Authority of County Veterinarian regarding animals unlawfully
brought into city
10-1-181—10-1-190   Reserved
Subchapter 11. Reserved
10-1-191—10-1-299   Reserved
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 10-1-1 DEFINITIONS.
   The words, terms and phrases defined in §§
10-1-2 through 10-1-27, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in §§
10-1-2 through 10-1-27, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2022-215, § 3, adopted 6-7-2022, amended Chapter 1 in its entirety to
read as herein set out. Former Chapter 1, §§ 10-1-1 through 10-1-38, 10-1-45
through 10-1-54, 10-1-60 through 10-1-76, 10-1-85, 10-1-94, 10-1-95, 10-1-105
through 10-1-112, 10-1-127 through 10-1-131, 10-1-143, 10-1-155 through 10-1-
158, 10-1-164 through 10-1-168, 10-1-174 through 10-1-180, 10-1-190 through10-
1-195, 10-1-206 through 10-1-210, 10-1-221, 10-1-222, pertained to similar
subject matter, and derived from Ord. 2011-165, §§ 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8,
adopted 10-4-2011; Ord. 90-11, § 4, adopted 3-6-1990.
§ 10-1-2 DEFINITIONS (A).
   ANIMAL. Includes, but is not limited to, birds, fishes, reptiles and
nonhuman mammals.
   ANIMAL EVENT. Any temporary organized activity involving the display, use or
performance of one or more live animals for the entertainment, instruction or
education of the public or for the purpose of adoption.
   ANIMAL EXHIBITION. Any property where one or more live animals are displayed
or used for entertainment, instruction or education of the public.
   ANIMAL FACILITY. Any property or facility where animals are kept or
maintained for any commercial purpose.
   ANIMAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT. The Animal Services Department for the City of
Mission Viejo authorized to perform the services and functions described in
this title pursuant to contract.
   APPROVED RABIES VACCINE. A vaccine which is approved for use in the animal
concerned by the California Department of Health.
   APPROVED RESEARCH INSTITUTION. A college, hospital, university or research
laboratory conducting research under humane conditions, if the Director so
finds and certifies in writing.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-3 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 10-1-4 DEFINITIONS (C).
   CAT. Domesticated members of the species Felis catus; it excludes other
members of the family Felidae.
   CITY. The City of Laguna Niguel.
   CITY ATTORNEY. The City Attorney or their assistants authorized pursuant to
Title 2, Chapter 7.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Laguna Niguel.
   COMMERCIAL. Operated or carried on primarily for financial gain by any non-
governmental firm, person or business/entity.
   COMMERCIAL STABLE. Any property where equines are sheltered or fed on a
commercial basis.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-4) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-5 DEFINITIONS (D).
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal of a species which presents a threat to the
safety of persons or property, as determined by the Director.
   DIRECTOR. The City of Mission Viejo Animal Services Director or their
designee or such other person may be designated by the City Council. Also
referred to as ANIMAL SERVICES DIRECTOR.
   DOG. Domesticated members of the species Canis familiaris; it excludes other
members of the family Canidae.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-5) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-6 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 10-1-7 DEFINITIONS (F).
   FOSTER ANIMAL. Any animal that is temporarily being cared for and housed by
a person on any property within the city.
   FOWL. Any male and female chicken, duck, goose, seafowl, peacock, turkey and
pheasant.
   FOWL, CROWING. Any male fowl capable of making a sound particular to its
species or type.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-7) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-8 DEFINITIONS (G).
   GARBAGE. Any waste consisting in whole or in part of animal wastes resulting
from the handling, preparing, cooking and consuming of food, including the
offal from animal carcasses or parts thereof.
   GROOMING FACILITY. Any and each individual physical facility, whether fixed
or mobile, where animals are groomed, brushed, clipped or bathed on a
commercial basis. Each individual grooming parlor, whether fixed or mobile,
shall be subject to inspection and shall be required to have a separate permit
regardless of such grooming parlor being under common ownership with any other
grooming parlor.
   GUARD (SENTRY) DOG. Any dog utilized, on a commercial basis, to guard any
property within the city, including guarding against fire or theft or both.
   GUIDE DOG. A properly trained dog certified by a licensed guide (Seeing Eye)
dog agency and actually being used by a blind person.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-8) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-9 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 10-1-10 DEFINITIONS (I).
   IMMEDIATE SLAUGHTER. Livestock shipped to a public stockyard and released
therefrom for slaughter, and also to livestock shipped to the premises of a
firm regularly engaged in the slaughter of animals under approved inspection.
   IMPOUNDED. Having been received into the custody of any animal shelter, or
into the custody of the Director or their authorized agent or deputy.
   INFECTIOUS DISEASE. Any infectious, contagious or communicable disease
sufficiently dangerous to the public health or to the health of animals within
the city to warrant putting into effect the provisions of this chapter and any
rules or regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-10) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-11 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 10-1-12 DEFINITIONS (K).
   KENNEL. Any lot, building, structure, enclosure or premises whereupon or
wherein one or more cats or dogs are kept or maintained for a commercial
purpose, including places where cats or dogs are boarded, kept for daycare or
kept for hire. Excluded from this definition are veterinary clinics and pet
hospitals when animals are being housed for medical care.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-12) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-13 DEFINITIONS (L).
   LIVESTOCK. Any domesticated poultry, cattle, goats, swine, sheep and equines
which are kept in captivity or under the control or ownership of any person for
any purpose.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-13) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-14 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 10-1-15 DEFINITIONS (N).
   NEUTERED or SPAYED. Rendered incapable of reproduction by physical means,
including surgical alteration or the implantation of a device, or other means.
To be acceptable, the NEUTERING or SPAYING must be certified to by a licensed
veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-15) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-16 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 10-1-17 DEFINITIONS (P).
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, society or
association, and every officer, agent or employee thereof.
   PET SHOP. Any place of business where any animals are to be sold as pets, or
are otherwise kept for sale.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, on two separate occasions within
the prior 36-month period, engages in any behavior that requires a defensive
action by any person to prevent bodily injury whether the person and the dog
are on or off the property of the owner and/or custodian of the dog;
      (2)   Any dog which, on two separate occasions within the prior 36-month
period, when unprovoked, bites a person causing any injury less than a severe
injury as defined in this section;
      (3)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, has killed, seriously bitten,
inflicted serious injury attacking a domestic animal, horse or livestock;
      (4)   Any dog that has been deemed by another governmental jurisdiction
as “potentially dangerous”, or “dangerous”, or comparable designation;
      (5)   A dog shall not be declared potentially dangerous if the owner or
custodian establishes that the actions of the dog with respect to which the
declaration is sought were provoked. For purposes of this section, the
following terms have the following meanings.
         (a)   With respect to harm to a human, PROVOCATION shall mean that the
bite, threat, injury or damage was sustained by a person who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass upon the premises occupied by the owner or
custodian of the dog; was committing or attempting to commit a crime upon the
person of, or the premises occupied by, the owner or custodian of the dog; or
was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog.
         (b)   The terms TEASE, TORMENT, ABUSE or ASSAULT as used herein shall
be limited to acts that cause pain, injury, suffering or distress beyond the
typical or usual interactions of a human or animal with a dog in a similar
environment or circumstance.
         (c)   The term PROVOCATION as used herein does not include the acts of
a person attempting to prevent an animal from physically attacking, mauling or
physically injuring another person or animal.
         (d)   With respect to harm to a human or an animal, a bite, threat,
injury or damage shall not be considered provoked if the dog’s reaction to the
act of provocation was grossly out of proportion to the alleged provocative
act.
         (e)   With respect to harm to an animal, an act shall be considered
provoked if at the time of the bite or injury, the victim animal entered an
enclosed portion of the property or premises of the dog owner, custodian or
keeper, without their knowledge, permission or consent, whether expressed or
implied.
      (6)   These definitions do not apply to dogs used in military or police
work while they are actually performing in that capacity.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-17) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-18 DEFINITIONS (Q).
   QUARANTINE. The strict confinement of an animal upon the premises of the
owner or elsewhere as approved by the Director and subject to the conditions or
requirements of the Director relating to the impoundment or other confinement.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-18) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-19 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 10-1-20 DEFINITIONS (S).
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury directly caused by a dog attack that
results in muscle tear(s), avulsion(s), dislocation(s), broken bone(s) or
disfiguring laceration(s), or corrective or cosmetic surgery, and/or
hospitalization for any of the aforementioned conditions.
   STOCKYARD. Any stockyard, corral or premises wherein public trading in
livestock is carried on, or where yarding, feeding and watering facilities are
provided and where federal, state, county or city inspection is maintained for
the inspection of livestock for infectious diseases.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-20) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-21 DEFINITIONS (T).
   TUBERCULIN TEST. Any test approved by the United States Department of
Agriculture for the detection of tuberculosis in animals.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-21) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-22 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 10-1-23 DEFINITIONS (V).
   VICIOUS DOG. Any of the following dogs, as determined by the Director:
      (1)   Any dog which inflicts severe injury on or kills a human being
whether the person and the dog are on or off the property of the owner or
custodian of the dog;
      (2)   Any dog previously determined to be and currently listed as a
potentially dangerous dog, which, after its owner or keeper has been notified
of this determination, continues the behavior of a “potentially dangerous dog”
as set forth above, or is maintained in violation of the conditions and
restrictions placed upon the dog as a “potentially dangerous dog”;
      (3)   Any dog that has been deemed by another governmental jurisdiction
as VICIOUS or comparable designation;
      (4)   A dog shall not be declared potentially dangerous if the owner or
custodian establishes that the actions of the dog with respect to which the
declaration is sought were provoked. For purposes of this section, the
following terms have the following meanings.
         (a)   With respect to harm to a human, PROVOCATION shall mean that the
bite, threat, injury or damage was sustained by a person who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass upon the premises occupied by the owner or
custodian of the dog, was committing or attempting to commit a crime upon the
person of, or the premises occupied by, the owner or custodian of the dog.
         (b)   The terms TEASE, TORMENT, ABUSE or ASSAULT as used herein shall
be limited to acts that cause pain, injury, suffering or distress beyond the
typical or usual interactions of a human or animal with a dog in a similar
environment or circumstance.
         (c)   The term PROVOCATION as used herein does not include the acts of
a person attempting to prevent an animal from physically attacking, mauling or
physically injuring another person or animal.
         (d)   With respect to harm to a human or an animal, a bite, threat,
injury or damage shall not be considered provoked if the dog’s reaction to the
act of provocation was grossly out of proportion to the alleged provocative
act.
         (e)   With respect to harm to an animal, an act shall be considered
provoked if at the time of the bite or injury, the victim animal entered an
enclosed portion of the property or premises of the dog owner, custodian or
keeper, without their knowledge, permission or consent, whether expressed or
implied.
      (5)   These definitions do not apply to dogs used in military or police
work while they are actually performing in that capacity.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-23) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§§ 10-1-24—10-1-27 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 10-1-28 ADMINISTRATION OF TITLE.
   The Director is charged with the administration of this title.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-28) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-29 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Council of the City of Mission Viejo may, by resolution, promulgate
any necessary rules and regulations for the administration of this title, which
upon adoption by resolution of the City Council of the City of Laguna Niguel,
shall apply to the city; or the City Council of the City of Mission Viejo may
delegate this administrative authority to the Animal Services Director.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-29) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-30 ENFORCEMENT OF TITLE; ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS.
   The Director and their duly authorized deputies and agents are hereby
empowered, and it shall be their duty, to enforce this title and any statute
relating to animal control, unless otherwise provided by law. Pursuant to
California Penal Code, § 836.5, and subject to the provisions of this section,
the Director and their duly authorized deputies and agents shall each have the
power to arrest a person without a warrant whenever any such individual has
reasonable cause to believe that the person to be arrested has committed an
offense in such individual’s presence which they have the discretionary duty to
enforce, and to issue a notice to appear, and to release such person on their
written promise to appear in court, pursuant to the California Penal Code, §§
853.5 and 853.6. The Director and their duly authorized deputies and agents
shall not be allowed by their superior to exercise the arrest and citation
authority conferred in this section, unless such individual is within a
classification of officers and employees designated by resolution of the City
Council of the City of Mission Viejo to exercise such arrest and citation
authority as to specified violations.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-30) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-31 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCING OFFICERS.
   No person shall interfere with, oppose or resist any authorized person
charged with the enforcement of this title while such person is engaged in the
performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-31) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-32 AUTHORITY OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS TO CARRY FIREARMS.
   (A)   Supervisory and senior animal control officers, and other officers
determined by the Director or by the City Council who have successfully
completed California Penal Code, § 832 firearms training or other relevant
training intended to authorize firearm utilization, are authorized to use and
carry loaded firearms, shotguns, air-guns and tranquilizer equipment, while
acting in the course and scope of their employment in carrying out their
responsibilities under this title.
   (B)   The Director shall have the authority to authorize the use of specific
firearms, shotguns, air-guns and tranquilizer equipment and the Animal Services
Department shall maintain a log of the approved equipment by serial number.
   (C)   Supervisory and senior animal control officers and other officers
determined by the Director, or determined by the City Council, authorized to
use or carry firearms shall regularly qualify and show proficiency with each
type of firearm they are authorized to carry. The Animal Services Department
shall maintain a log of the of trainings and qualifications.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-32) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-33 DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   The owner of any animal which dies shall dispose of the carcass of such
animal in a sanitary manner as prescribed by the Director within 24 hours after
the owner has knowledge of the animal’s death. The Director shall be
responsible for the disposal of all dead animals whose ownership cannot be
established.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-33) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Solid waste management, see §§
6-3-17 et seq.
§ 10-1-34 VIOLATION OF TITLE.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this title is guilty of an
infraction, except as set forth in division (B) below.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
10-1-51 or
10-1-95 is guilty of a misdemeanor. Moreover, any person who violates any other
provision of this title, when the violation occurs within one year of the
occurrence of two other separate violations of this title by that person, is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Each day on which a violation occurs or continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-34) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-35 INSPECTIONS.
   The Director and their duly authorized deputies and agents are authorized to
inspect any building or other property for the purpose of enforcing this title
or any statute relating to animal control or animal welfare.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-35) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-36 INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   Upon receiving a complaint from any person alleging a violation of this
title and upon receiving the name and address of the owner or custodian of the
animal, if known, an investigation to determine whether a violation exists may
be made. If the investigation discloses a violation of this title, prosecution
may be initiated against the owner or custodian.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-36) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-37 PROSECUTION OF THE OFFENDER; CUMULATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   A violation of this title shall, in the sole discretion of the city by
and through the City Attorney or other authorized personnel, be prosecuted in
any manner provided for by law, including, but not limited to, the
administrative, civil or the misdemeanor criminal prosecution of the offender
(subject to the city’s sole and absolute discretion to reduce the same to an
infraction or administrative civil complaint) and as provided for in Title 10,
Chapter 3.
   (B)   The remedies and penalties provided in this chapter are cumulative and
in addition to any other remedies available at law or in equity.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-37) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of title, see §
10-1-34
§ 10-1-38 ANIMAL CARE REQUIREMENTS.
   Every person within the city who owns any animal or who owns, conducts,
manages or operates any animal establishment for which a license is required by
this title shall comply with each of the following conditions.
   (A)   Housing facilities for animals shall be structurally sound and shall
be maintained in good repair, to protect the animals from injury, to contain
the animals and to restrict the entrance of other animals.
   (B)   All animals shall be supplied with sufficient good and wholesome food
and water as often as the feeding habits of the respective animals require.
   (C)   All animals and all animal buildings or enclosures shall be maintained
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (D)   No animals shall be without attention more than 12 consecutive hours.
Whenever an animal is left unattended at a commercial animal facility, the
telephone number of the Department of Animal Services, or the name, address and
telephone number of the responsible person, shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at the front of the property.
   (E)   Every reasonable precaution shall be used to ensure that animals are
not teased, abused, mistreated, annoyed, tormented or in any manner made to
suffer by any person or means.
   (F)   No condition shall be maintained or permitted that is or could be
injurious to the animals.
   (G)   Buildings and enclosures shall be so constructed and maintained as to
prevent escape of animals. All reasonable precautions shall be taken to protect
the public from the animals and the animals from the public.
   (H)   Every animal establishment shall isolate sick animals in a manner so
as not to endanger the health of other animals, department and city officials
and staff and members of the public. Sick animals shall at all times be
isolated from the other animals.
   (I)   Every building or enclosure wherein animals are maintained shall be
constructed of material that is non-porous and shall be kept in a sanitary
condition. The building shall be properly ventilated to prevent drafts and to
remove odors. Heating and cooling shall be provided as required, according to
the physical need of the animals, with sufficient light to allow observation of
animals and sanitation.
   (J)   Such person shall promptly take any animal to a veterinarian for
examination or treatment, if the Director finds this is necessary in order to
maintain the health of the animal and orders the owner or custodian to do so.
   (K)   All animal rooms, cages, kennels and runs shall be of sufficient size
to provide adequate and proper accommodations for the animals kept therein.
Animals shall have sufficient height and sufficient floor space to stand up,
sit down and turn around freely using normal body movements without the head
touching the top of the primary enclosure; have the ability to lie down with
limbs outstretched and exercise normal postural movement; and move freely as
appropriate for the species, age, size and condition of the animal. However,
when freedom of movement would endanger the animal due to a medical condition
that has been documented by a licensed veterinarian, temporarily and
appropriately restricting movement of the animal in a humane manner is
permitted.
   (L)   Every violation of an applicable regulation shall be corrected within
a reasonable time as specified by the Director.
   (M)   Such person shall provide proper shelter and protection from the
weather at all times.
   (N)   Such person shall not give an alcoholic beverage to any animal, or
allow any animal to drink any alcoholic beverage, unless prescribed by a
veterinarian.
   (O)   Such person shall not allow animals which are natural enemies,
temperamentally unsuited or otherwise incompatible, to be quartered together,
or so near each other as to cause injury, fear or torment. If two or more
animals are so trained that they can be placed together and do not attack each
other or perform or attempt any hostile act to the others, such animals shall
be deemed not to be natural enemies.
   (P)   Such person shall not allow the use of any tack, equipment, device,
substance or material that is, or could be, injurious or cause cruelty to any
animal.
   (Q)   Such person shall give working animals proper and adequate rest
periods. Confined or restrained animals shall be given exercise proper and
adequate for the individual animal under the particular conditions.
   (R)   Such person shall not work, use or rent any animal which is
overheated, weakened, exhausted, sick, injured, diseased, lame or otherwise
unfit.
   (S)   Such person shall not display any animal for adoption, if such animal
bears evidence of malnutrition, ill health, unhealed injury or having been kept
in an unsanitary condition.
   (T)   Such person shall not display any animal whose appearance is or may be
offensive or contrary to public decency.
   (U)   Such person shall not allow any animal to constitute or cause a
hazard, or be a menace to the health, peace or safety of the community.
   (V)   Such person shall not violate any condition imposed by the Director on
any license issued by the Animal Services Department.
   (W)   No dog or cat under the age of eight weeks shall be brought or shipped
into the city for the purpose of adoption, and no dog or cat under the age of
eight weeks shall be offered for adoption.
   (X)   Every dog or cat offered for adoption must be examined by a licensed
veterinarian and be certified free of congenital defects, distemper, worms,
skin disease, skin and ear mites and other diseases or conditions which would
be injurious to the animal, any other animals or a potential owner.
   (Y)   Every dog or cat offered for adoption shall have been vaccinated
against distemper and parvo. A vaccination record providing the date of
vaccination, lot number and manufacturer must be provided to the person
adopting the dog or cat at the time of adoption.
   (Z)   Every dog four months of age or older shall be vaccinated for rabies.
A vaccination record providing the date of vaccination, lot number and
manufacturer must be provided to the person adopting the dog at the time of
adoption.
   (AA)   Clean, potable water shall be available to all animals in conformance
with the principles of good animal husbandry, unless restricted by a licensed
veterinarian. Proof of such veterinarian restrictions shall be presented to the
animal control officer upon request. Water receptacles, container or dispensers
shall be kept in a clean and sanitary state at all times.
   (BB)   Food receptacles shall be accessible to all animals, unless
restricted by a licensed veterinarian and shall be located so as to minimize
contamination by excreta. Proof of any licensed veterinarian restrictions shall
be presented to the animal control officer upon request. Food contaminated by
urine shall be discarded and replaced with fresh uncontaminated food.
Disposable receptacles may be used but must be discarded after each feeding.
Self-feeders may be used for the feeding of dry food, and they shall be kept
clean and free of mold, deterioration and the caking of food at all times.
   (CC)   Such person shall comply with all other applicable federal, state or
local law, regulation or ordinance relating to the care of animals and/or
operation of an animal establishment.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-38) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-39 SALE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall solicit, peddle, conduct or consummate the sale,
exchange or giveaway of any living animal or animals, and no person shall
convey as part of any commercial transaction any living animal or animals in
the city except that such activities shall be permitted in:
      (1)   Pet shops and kennels that are duly licensed pursuant to this
title; and
      (2)   At the residence of the conveyor of the animal.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit animal adoption
activities provided that all necessary permits and approvals for the location
of such animal adoption activity have been obtained.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-39) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-40 PROHIBITING THE FEEDING OF WILDLIFE.
   No person shall feed or in any manner provide food for wild animals or
vector animals, including, but not limited to, coyotes, bobcats, mountain lions
or rodents. In further amplification, this section also includes a prohibition
on the feeding of animals, including, but not limited to, wild raccoons, foxes,
skunks, opossums, rodents, rabbits or hares. This section does not apply to the
feeding of animals under the care of a licensed veterinarian, or rehabilitator,
or those kept in the City of Mission Viejo Animals Services Center, or by those
kept by an individual who has been authorized by permit or license to care for
and feed such animals.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-40) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§§ 10-1-41—10-1-44 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. KEEPING AND RESTRAINT OF DOGS AND CATS ****
§ 10-1-45 RESTRAINT OF DOGS.
   (A)   No person owning or having charge, care, custody or control of any dog
shall cause or permit, either willfully or through failure to exercise due care
or control, any such dog to be upon any private property, unless such dog is
restrained thereon by a fence, wall, substantial chain or leash not exceeding
six feet in length, or other appropriate physical restraint, or is under the
charge of a person competent to exercise care, custody and control over such
dog.
   (B)   No person owning or having charge, care, custody or control of any dog
shall cause or permit, either willfully or through failure to exercise due care
or control, any such dog to be upon any public property, unless such dog is
restrained by a substantial chain or leash not exceeding six feet in length,
and is under the charge of a person competent to exercise care, custody and
control over such dog unless the owner or operator of such public property
grants written permission for such dog to be on such property without such
chain or leash.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-45) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-46 DOGS ON PUBLIC SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person having the charge of any dog, except a guide dog or service
dog, shall permit the dog, under any circumstances, to be on or within the
public school property.
   (B)   This section, however, does not prohibit the use of dogs on school
property for teaching or other school uses, when approved by the school
officials.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-46) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-47 FEMALE CATS AND DOGS IN SEASON TO CONFINED.
   Every person owning or having charge of any female cat or dog shall strictly
confine such animal during its breeding season, i.e., while it is in heat, in a
building or other enclosure adequate to keep such cat or dog confined.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-47) (Ord. 90-11, § 4, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 10-1-48 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   No person shall allow, upon any premises owned, occupied or controlled
by such a person, any animal to cause a public nuisance. As used in this
section, a PUBLIC NUISANCE includes, but is not limited to, disruptive sounds
created by barking, howling, crying, neighing, braying or making other sounds
of an animal that unreasonably disturb persons in the reasonable and
comfortable enjoyment of their life or property. Such activity is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and unlawful.
   (B)   A dog shall not be deemed a public nuisance if, at any time the dog is
making noise, a person is trespassing upon the private property where the dog
is situated, or when the dog is being teased or provoked or protecting person
(s) or property.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-48) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Noise control, see §§
6-6-1 et seq.
§ 10-1-49 PERMITTING ANIMAL TO GO ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   No person owning or having care, custody or control of any animal shall
permit, either willfully or through failure to exercise proper control, such
animal to trespass or be upon any private property of another person without
the consent of such person.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-49) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-50 ANIMAL WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a public nuisance for any person, whether
willful or as a result of failure to exercise due care, having custody or
control of any dog to permit that dog to defecate in a public area, any area
open to the public or any private property without the property owner’s
consent, without immediately removing the feces and disposing of it in a
sanitary manner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a public nuisance for any person, whether
willful or as a result of failure to exercise due care, to fail to remove
animal waste upon any premises owned, occupied or controlled by such a person
in a timely manner if such animal waste infringes upon the use of someone
else’s property by obnoxious odor, or by physically draining onto public
property or the private property of another.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-50) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-51 PUBLIC PROTECTION FROM DOGS.
   (A)   Dog owners and custodians of dogs shall at all times take all
reasonable precautions to prevent their dogs from biting, attacking or
attempting to bite any person or from interfering with the use of public or
private property. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with
this division (A).
   (B)   Any person owning or having custody or control of a declared vicious
dog or a declared potentially dangerous dog, or a dog that has shown aggressive
propensities, commits a violation of this code if, as a result of that person’s
failure to exercise ordinary care, the dog bites, attacks, wounds or otherwise
injures or kills a human being and the owner or custodian knew or should have
known of the vicious or dangerous nature of the dog. As used in this division
(B), the term DECLARED means a dog that has been declared to be a vicious dog
or declared to be a potentially dangerous dog by the Director pursuant to §
10-1-95 or by another governmental jurisdiction.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall authorize the bringing of a criminal
action pursuant to a violation of division (A) or (B) above if the bite,
attack, attempted bite, injury or threat was sustained by a person who, at the
time, was committing a willful trespass upon the premises occupied by the owner
or custodian of the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit a crime upon
the premises occupied by the owner or custodian of the dog, or was teasing,
tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or who has in the past teased,
tormented, abused or assaulted the dog.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-51) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-52 NUISANCE COMPLAINT ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   Upon receiving a complaint alleging a nuisance, as defined in §
10-1-48, the animal services staff shall adhere to the following procedures.
   (A)   Upon receipt by the Animal Services Department of a first complaint,
animal services staff will send a letter informing the responsible person about
the complaint.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, a RESPONSIBLE PERSON is any of the
following:
      (1)   A person who allows a violation of §
10-1-48 to exist, whether through willful action, failure to act or failure to
exercise proper control over an animal;
      (2)   A person whose agent, employee or independent contractor allows a
violation to exist, whether through willful action, failure to act or failure
to exercise proper control over an animal;
      (3)   A person who is the owner of, or a lessee or sublessee with the
current right of possession of, real property in or upon which a violation
occurs;
      (4)   A PERSON includes a natural person or legal entity, including the
owners, majority stockholders, corporate officers, trustees or general partners
of a legal entity; and
      (5)   There may be more than one responsible person for a violation.
   (C)   Upon receipt by the Animal Services Department of a second complaint
regarding an animal for which a first notice has been sent; provided at least
ten days, but no more than 30 calendar days, have elapsed from the date of the
first letter sent by animal services staff pursuant to division (B)(1) above,
an animal control officer will be dispatched to issue a notice to comply and to
advise the responsible person about possible solutions to rectify the nuisance.
   (D)   Upon receipt by the Animal Services Department of a third complaint
between ten and 30 calendar days after the date of a second complaint pursuant
to division (B)(2) above, animal services staff will ask the complainant to
obtain, complete and return to the Department a formal witness statement form,
including two additional independent witnesses to corroborate the nuisance
violation, unless a wavier is approved by the Director, within ten days of
request.
   (E)   Upon receipt of a formal witness statement form, if the Director, or
their designee, finds the animal owner to be in violation of §
10-1-48, the Department will issue an administrative citation pursuant to Title
10, Chapter 3 in an amount set forth in the animal nuisance citation schedule
established in §
10-1-53.
   (F)   Animal nuisance citations may be contested pursuant to the provisions
of Title 10, Chapter 3.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-52) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-53 ANIMAL NUISANCE ADMINISTRATIVE FINE AMOUNT; LATE PAYMENT CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Fines for administrative animal nuisance citations shall be as
follows:
         (a)   First animal nuisance citation issued (per citation): $100.00;
         (b)   Second animal nuisance citation within the same 12-month period:
$200.00;
         (c)   Third animal nuisance citation within the same 12-month period:
$500.00;
         (d)   Fourth animal nuisance citation within the same 12-month period:
$500.00;
         (e)   Fifth animal nuisance citation within the same 12-month period:
$500.00; and
         (f)   For sixth and subsequent animal nuisance citation within the
same 12-month period: $500.00.
      (2)   There must be at least ten days between issuance of citations to
the same person.
   (B)   Any fine not paid within 15 days of due date shall be calculated as
follows: the amount of the appropriate fine listed above added to a late
penalty in the same amount as the fine such that the total amount due is double
the unpaid fine amount.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-53) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-54 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES THROUGH LEGAL ACTION; CUMULATIVE REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this chapter or subchapter shall prevent the City Attorney from
pursuing a civil or criminal proceeding to abate a public nuisance as an
alternative to the procedures set forth in this subchapter. The remedies and
penalties provided in this chapter are cumulative and in addition to any other
remedies available at law or in equity.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-54) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-55 ANIMALS IN UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall leave an animal in any unattended vehicle without
adequate ventilation and water, or in any other manner which subjects the
animal to extreme temperatures which could adversely affect the animal’s health
or welfare.
   (B)   It shall be a rebuttable presumption that an interior temperature
exceeding 100°F constitutes an extreme temperature which adversely affects the
health or welfare of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-55) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§§ 10-1-56—10-1-59 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. RABIES CONTROL ****
§ 10-1-60 DOG VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   Every person owning or harboring a dog four months of age or older for 15
days or more shall, if the dog is not currently vaccinated, have such dog
vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian with a vaccine approved by
the California Department of Health. By obtaining an antirabies deferment from
a licensed veterinarian, and upon approval of the Director, dogs that are ill
may be given temporary deferment from rabies vaccination requirements; old age
of the dog, however, shall not be a basis for such deferment. Such a deferred
dog shall be vaccinated within ten days of the conclusion of the deferment
period.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-60) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-61 QUARANTINE.
   (A)   The California Director of Health has declared the county a rabies
area. The Director is authorized under state law to quarantine suspected rabid
animals or animals that are suspected or reported of biting a human causing a
break in the skin by the tooth or teeth of an animal. The Director or their
authorized agent is hereby empowered to enter upon any private property,
including the home or residence where the animal is kept or has strayed, to
inspect, and, if necessary, to seize and impound any animal suspected of being
rabid for a period of 14 days, or ten days for dogs and cats. The impounding
officer shall make a reasonable effort to immediately notify the owner or
custodian of the animal before it is impounded and notify the owner or
custodian of the address of the facility to which it will be taken. If the
owner or custodian is not present at the time of impounding, the notice shall
be posted on the property of such owner or custodian, if known. In lieu of
impounding the animal, they may, by serving a written notice upon the owner,
require the owner to quarantine the animal for such period.
   (B)   No person shall disobey any quarantine order issued by the Director or
remove from its place of confinement any animal under quarantine without the
permission of the Director.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-61) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-62 REPORT OF ANIMALS SUSPECTED OF HAVING RABIES OR BITING OR SCRATCHING
HUMAN.
   Any person having knowledge of the location of an animal suspected of having
rabies, or of any person having been bitten or scratched by any warm-blooded
mammal, or of any signs of disease or unusual behavior in any animal under
quarantine, shall immediately report such facts to the Director.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-62) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-63 PROOF OF VACCINATION.
   No person who owns or harbors any dog shall fail or refuse to exhibit their
copy of the rabies vaccination form, antirabies inoculation deferment form or
health certificate upon demand by any person charged with the enforcement of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-63) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-64 VACCINATION CERTIFICATE.
   Each duly licensed veterinarian, after vaccinating any dog, shall complete
and sign a rabies certificate in triplicate. They shall keep one copy and shall
give one copy to the owner of the vaccinated dog, which the owner shall retain
in their possession. They shall file the other copy with the Director on a
monthly basis.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-64) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§§ 10-1-65—10-1-69 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. DOG LICENSING; ANIMAL PERMIT ****
§ 10-1-70 DOG LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every person owning or having custody of any dog four months of
age or older shall procure for the dog a city dog license. Such license shall
be procured within 15 days after the date on which it becomes due.
      (2)   The following are exceptions to the requirement for a license:
         (a)   A dog brought into the city for show or other purposes and which
leaves within 30 days; and
         (b)   A dog maintained in an approved research institution or licensed
kennel; provided the dog is owned by the owner or operator of the research
institution or kennel.
   (B)   Guard (sentry) dogs are not excepted. Each such guard (sentry) dog
must be individually licensed, and each dog shall wear its city license tag
securely fastened to a collar or harness, whether or not the dog is kenneled in
the city.
   (C)   No dog shall be licensed without proof of approved rabies vaccination.
No license may expire later than the expiration date of the rabies vaccination.
An owner may purchase a license for six or 12 months, depending upon the date
and kind of vaccine used, upon payment of the fee established by resolution of
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-70) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-71 WEARING OF DOG LICENSE TAG.
   (A)   Each dog required to be licensed shall wear at all times the current
license tag assigned to that dog, except when the dog is:
      (1)   Physically confined within the premises of the owner or other
person authorized to have custody;
      (2)   Confined in a vehicle or cage;
      (3)   Participating in any dog exhibition, field trial or competition; or
      (4)   Confined in a licensed kennel or veterinary hospital, in which case
the license tag number shall be recorded and placed nearby so that it is
readily identifiable with the dog to which it belongs, or, if not licensed,
that fact shall be clearly indicated on the facility’s records.
   (B)   A license tag shall not be removed from any dog without the consent of
the owner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-71) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-72 DOG LICENSE RENEWAL.
   Licenses required by this subchapter not purchased or renewed within 60 days
after expiration, or the date on which they become due, shall be considered
delinquent, and a late fee shall be added to the cost of the new license. The
Director may waive the late fee if they determines the applicant made a
reasonable effort to comply with the deadline specified in this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-72) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-73 TRANSFER OF DOG LICENSE.
   Upon the transfer of ownership of any licensed dog, the license may be
transferred to the new owner; provided that the Director is notified within 15
days, in writing, of such transfer of ownership, and the name and address of
the new owner is provided.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-73) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-74 FALSE OR STOLEN DOCUMENTS OR TAG.
   No person shall make use of or have in their possession or under their
control a stolen, counterfeit or forged dog license receipt, dog license tag,
rabies vaccination certificate, antirabies inoculation deferment form or other
form issued in accordance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-74) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-75 DISPLAY OF VACCINATION CERTIFICATE OR TAG.
   Every person shall, upon demand by the Director, exhibit any current rabies
vaccination certificate or dog license tag issued to such person pursuant to
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-75) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-76 NUMBER OF ANIMALS PERMITTED.
   Each household having custody of four or more dogs or four or more cats,
over the age of four months, for the purpose as described in §
10-2-20, must obtain the necessary additional animal license required under §
10-2-10 for each animal.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-76) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§§ 10-1-77—10-1-84 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 5. CAT LICENSING ****
§ 10-1-85 LICENSE CERTIFICATE AND TAG.
   (A)   The owner of any cat may, upon submission of proof of rabies
vaccination certified to by a licensed veterinarian, and upon payment of the
fee established by resolution of the City Council, be issued a license
certificate and tag.
   (B)   No person shall remove a registration tag from a cat without the
consent of the owner thereof.
   (C)   Licensing shall be valid for the period of the rabies vaccination. The
obtaining of such a license shall be optional on the part of the owner, except
as provided in §
10-1-76.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-85) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§§ 10-1-86—10-1-93 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 6. DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS ****
§ 10-1-94 KEEPING OF WILD, EXOTIC, DANGEROUS OR NONDOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   No person shall have, keep or maintain any wild, exotic, dangerous or
nondomestic animal without first applying to and receiving an unusual animal
license from the Director pursuant to §
10-2-20. The Director shall, by regulation, determine those animals to be
covered by this section. The keeping or maintenance of such animals shall also
conform to the zoning regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-94) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-95 DECLARATION AND POSSESSION OF VICIOUS DOG OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS
DOG.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   If the Director has cause to believe that a dog is a vicious dog
within the meaning of §
10-1-23 or potentially dangerous dog within the meaning of §
10-1-17, the Director may tentatively find and declare such dog a vicious dog
or potentially dangerous dog.
      (2)   Upon tentatively finding and declaring that a dog is a vicious dog
or potentially dangerous dog, the Director shall notify the owner or custodian
in writing of their tentative finding and declaration.
      (3)   The notice shall inform the owner or custodian of such dog that
they may request a hearing in writing before the Director, within five working
days of receipt of such notice, to contest the tentative finding and
declaration. Any such hearing shall be requested and conducted as provided in
division (D) below.
      (4)   Failure of the owner or custodian to request a hearing pursuant to
division (A)(3) above shall result in the declaration becoming final.
      (5)   (a)   The possession or maintenance of a vicious dog or potentially
dangerous dog, or the allowing of any such dog to be in contravention of this
chapter, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. The Director is hereby
authorized and empowered to impound or abate any vicious dog or potentially
dangerous dog independently of any criminal prosecution or the results thereof
by any means reasonably necessary to ensure the health, safety and welfare of
the public, including, but not limited to, the destruction of the dog or by the
imposition upon the owner or custodian of specific reasonable restrictions and
conditions for the maintenance of the dog.
         (b)   The restrictions and conditions may include, but are not limited
to:
            1.   Obtaining and maintaining liability insurance in the amount of
$1,000,000.00 against bodily injury or death or damage to property and
furnishing a certificate or proof of insurance by which the Director shall be
notified at least ten days prior to cancellation or non-renewal, or, at the
owner’s or custodian’s option, the filing with the Director of proof of a bond
in the amount of $1,000,000.00, to be able to respond in damages;
            2.   Requirements as to size, construction and design of the dog’s
enclosure;
            3.   Location of the dog’s residence;
            4.   Requirements as to type and method of restraints or muzzling
of the dog;
            5.   Photo identification or permanent marking of the dog for
purposes of identification;
            6.   Requirements as to the posting of a warning notice or notices
conspicuous to the public warning persons of the presence of a vicious dog; and
            7.   Payment of fees as established by resolution of the City
Council to recover the costs of enforcing the provisions of this subchapter as
applied to the regulation of vicious dogs.
   (B)   Notification of right to hearing. At least five working days prior to
impoundment and/or abatement of a vicious or potentially dangerous dog, the
Director shall provide written notification to the owner and/or custodian of
their right to request a hearing in writing to determine whether grounds exist
for such impoundment and/or abatement. If a hearing is requested, the
impoundment and/or abatement hearing may be held in conjunction with the
hearing provided for in division (A) above. If the owner or custodian requests
a hearing prior to impoundment or abatement, no impoundment or abatement shall
take place pending decision by the Director following a hearing, except as
provided in division (C) below. Pending such impoundment and/or abatement
hearing and decision by the Director, the Director may order the owner or
custodian to keep the dog within a substantial enclosure or securely attached
to a chain or other type of control which the Director may deem necessary under
the circumstances. The Director may also order the owner or custodian to post
and keep posted, upon the premises where such dog is kept under restraint, a
warning notice, pending such impoundment or abatement hearing and decision by
the Director. The form, content and display of such notice shall be specified
by the Director. Any hearing under this division (B) shall be conducted in
accordance with division (D) below.
   (C)   Immediate impoundment. When, in the opinion of the Director, immediate
impoundment is necessary for the preservation of animal or public health,
safety or welfare, or if the dog has been impounded under other provisions of
this code or state law, the pre-impoundment hearing shall not be required;
however, the owner or custodian shall be given written notice allowing five
working days from receipt of such notice to request in writing an abatement
hearing. If requested, a hearing shall be held within five working days of
receipt of the request by the Director and the dog shall not be disposed of
prior to the decision of the Director following such hearing. A hearing under
this division (C) shall be conducted in accordance with division (D) below
except as otherwise indicated. If, after five working days following receipt of
such notice, no written request for a hearing is received from the owner or
custodian, the dog in question shall be disposed of under applicable provisions
of law.
   (D)   Request for and conduct of hearing.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) above, the Director
shall conduct a hearing within 15 working days following receipt of a written
request from the owner or custodian requesting a hearing under this section,
and notice of the time, date and place thereof shall be mailed to the person
requesting the hearing at the address given in the hearing request, at least
ten days prior to the hearing. The Director may appoint a hearing officer to
take evidence, summarize the evidence presented and report their findings and
recommendations based on such evidence to the Director, or the Director may
personally conduct the hearing.
      (2)   At the hearing, each party shall have the right to call and examine
witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine opposing witnesses, to
impeach any witness and to rebut the evidence against them. The hearing need
not be conducted according to technical rules relating to evidence and
witnesses. Any relevant evidence shall be admitted if it is the sort of
evidence on which responsible persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of
serious affairs, regardless of the existence of any common law or statutory
rule which might make improper the admission of such evidence over objection in
civil actions. The rules of privilege shall be effective to the same extent
that they are now or hereafter may be recognized in civil actions, and
irrelevant or unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded.
      (3)   Within 15 working days following the conclusion of the hearing, the
Director shall determine, on all the evidence presented to them, or on the
summary of evidence and findings of fact and recommendations of the person
holding the hearing, whether any designation, impoundment or abatement under
this section should be rescinded or amended. Within five working days following
such decision, the Director shall notify, in writing, the person requesting the
hearing of their determination as to any issue as to which the hearing was
requested.
   (E)   Change of circumstances. In the event of changed circumstances, the
Director may amend or rescind any abatement or impoundment imposed pursuant to
division (A)(5) above. Any such revision to the abatement or impoundment due to
changed circumstances shall be subject to the same notice, hearing and other
procedural requirements as required for imposing an initial abatement or
impoundment set forth in divisions (B), (C) and (D) above.
   (F)   Change of ownership, custody or residence. Owners of a vicious dog or
potentially dangerous dog who sell or otherwise transfer the ownership, custody
or residence of the dog shall, at least ten days prior to the sale or transfer,
inform the Director in writing of the name, address and telephone number of the
new owner, custodian and residence, and the name and description of the dog.
The owner shall, in addition, notify the new owner or custodian in writing of
the details of the dog’s record, and terms and conditions of maintenance, and
provide the Director with a copy thereof containing an acknowledgment by the
new owner or custodian of their receipt of the original. The Director shall
notify the new owner or custodian in writing of any different or additional
restrictions or conditions imposed pursuant to division (A)(5) above as a
result of the change of ownership, custody or residence. The imposition of any
such different or additional restrictions or conditions shall be subject to the
same notice, hearing and other procedural requirements as required for imposing
an initial abatement or impoundment set forth in divisions (B), (C) and (D)
above.
   (G)   Restraint required. It is unlawful to have custody of, own or possess
a vicious dog or potentially dangerous dog within the meaning of §
10-1-23, unless it is restrained, confined or muzzled so that it cannot bite,
attack or cause injury to any person.
   (H)   Compliance with conditions; notification of director of escape of dog.
It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of a dog declared vicious or
potentially dangerous pursuant to division (A) above to fail to comply with any
requirements or conditions imposed pursuant to division (A)(5) above. If a
vicious dog escapes, the owner or custodian shall immediately notify the
Director and make every reasonable effort to recapture it.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-95) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§§ 10-1-96—10-1-104 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 7. ANIMAL IMPOUNDMENT ****
§ 10-1-105 ANIMALS SUBJECT TO IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The Director or their deputies may take into custody:
      (1)   Any animal kept or maintained contrary to the provisions of this
code or any regulation adopted thereunder, or any state statute;
      (2)   Animals running at large contrary to the provisions of this chapter
or any statute;
      (3)   Sick, injured, stray or unwanted animals for which the owner or
custodian cannot be found or is unable or unwilling to provide proper care;
      (4)   Animals quarantined for which no other place of quarantine is
acceptable to the Director;
      (5)   Animals delivered or requested to be impounded by a peace officer
or public officer or employee as defined in California Penal Code, § 836.5;
      (6)   Any wild animal found to be at large upon any public property, or,
upon request of the owner or tenant, found to be at large upon private
property;
      (7)   Animals impounded pursuant to §
10-1-95; and
      (8)   Any other animal authorized to be impounded under this chapter.
   (B)   The Director may place animals which they take into custody in the
animal shelter or other facility designated by them, except that animals
impounded pursuant to division (A)(6) above may be summarily destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-105) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-106 RETENTION OF ANIMALS TO BE REPORTED TO DIRECTOR.
   No person shall, without the consent of the owner, hold or retain possession
of any animal for more than 24 hours without first reporting the possession of
such animal to the Director, giving their name and address and a true
description of the animal, and then surrendering such animal to the Director
upon demand.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-106) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-107 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF ANIMALS FROM OFFICIAL CUSTODY.
   No person shall remove any animal from the custody of the Director or from
the animal shelter without permission from the Director to do so.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-107) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-108 REDEMPTION OF ANIMALS FROM ANIMAL SHELTER.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by state law or Subchapter 8, when any
animal, other than an animal abandoned by its owner, is impounded pursuant to
this chapter, the Director shall, within 12 working hours after impounding such
animal, notify the owner, if known, of the location of such animal. The
notification shall be by mail, with postage fully prepaid thereon.
   (B)   Any impounded animal may be redeemed by the owner upon payment of the
fees established by resolution of the City Council. The owner must also
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director that they are the owner of the
animal, and that they can keep such animal in conformance with the requirements
of this chapter.
   (C)   If a licensed animal is not redeemed within seven days of impoundment,
excluding holidays and the day of impoundment, or three days for unlicensed
animals, it shall be deemed abandoned and the Director may sell, release or
destroy the animal.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-108) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-109 SALE OF UNREDEEMED IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by state law or by this chapter, any
unredeemed animal may be sold by the Director upon payment of the fees
established by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   An unredeemed female dog which has not been neutered shall not be sold
or given away, other than for approved medical research, unless the deposit
specified in §
10-1-111 has been received.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-109) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-110 DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS BY EUTHANASIA.
   (A)   Any impounded animal which has not been redeemed or sold may be
disposed of by euthanasia. Euthanasia may also be performed at the request of
the owner of the animal.
   (B)   A fee may be charged if provided for by resolution of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-110) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-111 NEUTERING OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No humane shelter or shelter operated by a society for the prevention
of cruelty to animals shall adopt or give away, dog or cat which has not been
neutered or spayed, unless a spay/neuter deposit is made at the time of
adoption or give away.
   (B)   The deposit will be refunded to the person adopting or receiving the
dog or cat when a notice is received by the shelter from a licensed
veterinarian that the spay or neuter has been completed.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-111) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-112 UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, barter or give away nor shall any person buy,
accept or take possession of any animal on premises upon which the animal
shelter is located, including adjacent parking areas, without the written
permission of the Director.
   (B)   The Director may define the premises covered by this section and cause
those areas to be posted so as to advise persons of the provisions of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-112) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§§ 10-1-113—10-1-126 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 8. LIVESTOCK RUNNING AT LARGE ****
§ 10-1-127 ANIMAL DEFINED.
   The term ANIMAL, as used in this subchapter, shall not include a cat or dog,
but shall include livestock and fowl.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-127) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-128 PERMITTING ANIMAL TO RUN AT LARGE; STAKING OR GRAZING ON PROPERTY OF
ANOTHER.
   No person owning or having charge, care, custody or control of any animal
shall cause or permit, either willfully or through failure to exercise due care
or control, any such animal to be placed or staked or to graze or be upon the
land of another without the written consent of the owner or other authorized
person, or upon public lands, streets or highways, or allow any such animal to
run at large.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-128) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-129 IMPOUNDMENT.
   The Director may seize and impound any animal found on any premises in
violation of this subchapter, and they shall have a lien upon such animal
sufficient to secure payment of all expenses incurred by reason of their
seizing, keeping and caring for such animal.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-129) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-130 SALE OF UNCLAIMED IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   If no person appears and claims the animal impounded under this subchapter
within five days, or if a person does appear to claim the animal impounded
within such time but fails to pay the Director the expenses as provided in §
10-1-129, the Director shall proceed to sell, or cause to be sold, such animal,
except a bovine, at public sale in accordance with the general procedure
provided in the law concerning the sale or execution of personal property.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-130) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-131 DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS VALUED AT LESS THAN $20.00.
   If the animal impounded under this subchapter is of a value less than $20.00
and has not been claimed, the Director may, after the expiration of three days
from the date of seizure, sell such animal, except a bovine, at private sale
without notice. In the alternative, the Director may dispose of the animal,
except a bovine, in any humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-131) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§§ 10-1-132—10-1-142 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 9. KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK ****
§ 10-1-143 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK, FOWL.
   No person shall keep or maintain any fowl, or livestock, except for horses
which are regulated pursuant to §
9-1-35.11 on any property.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-143) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§§ 10-1-144—10-1-154 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 10. ANIMAL HEALTH ****
§ 10-1-155 SUBCHAPTER SUPPLEMENTAL TO STATE LAW.
   This subchapter shall in all respects be construed to supplement and
harmonize with the provisions of the laws of the state pertaining to animal
industry.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-155) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-156 APPOINTMENT OF COUNTY VETERINARIAN.
   The County Veterinarian shall serve as the City Veterinarian. As used in
this code, COUNTY VETERINARIAN shall mean such person appointed as county
veterinarian by the County Board of Supervisors in compliance with state and
federal laws.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-156) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-157 DUTIES OF COUNTY VETERINARIAN.
   It shall be the duty of the County Veterinarian, acting in cooperation with
the state veterinarian, to enforce all laws of the state, the ordinances of the
city and all orders of the City Council pertaining to the health and sanitary
condition of animals in the city. To this end, they are authorized, upon
approval of the City Council, to establish, maintain and enforce such
quarantine, sanitary, testing and immunizing measures and to promulgate such
rules and regulations as they may deem necessary and proper. They shall
regulate the movement of animals from stockyards, corrals and feedyards, and
they shall supervise the examination and testing of animals or premises for the
presence of contagious, infectious or communicable disease. They shall
immediately report any human infectious or communicable disease found in
animals to the health officer or their duly authorized deputy.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-157) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-158 ESTABLISHMENT OF QUARANTINE.
   (A)   When the County Veterinarian has determined that an infectious disease
exists among animals in any area and the importation of animals from such area
might spread such disease among the animals within the city, they shall notify
the City Council, designating and describing the area where such disease has
been found, and shall, with its approval, establish such quarantine
restrictions as the circumstances shall warrant. The County Veterinarian may
refuse to permit shipments of animals from such areas to the city, unless
accompanied by a certificate signed by a state or federal veterinarian
certifying that the animals for which such certificate is issued are not
infected with or exposed to an infectious disease.
   (B)   Any animals entering the city from any area so described and
designated without such a certificate may be quarantined by the County
Veterinarian and confiscated or disposed of in such manner as to eliminate any
danger of the animals within the city being exposed to infection from such
disease.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-158) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§§ 10-1-159—10-1-163 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 10-1-164 INVESTIGATION OF DISEASED ANIMALS; POWERS OF COUNTY VETERINARIAN.
   The County Veterinarian shall investigate all reports of the presence of
infectious diseases affecting animals within the city. They are authorized to
enter any premises where animals are kept, or on which they have reason to
believe that animals are kept, in order to carry into effect the provisions of
this subchapter, and it shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the
official action of the County Veterinarian or their authorized deputy. The
County Veterinarian may quarantine any animal suspected of being infected with
or exposed to an infectious disease for a reasonable period of observation and
until such tests as may be required to ascertain the presence or absence of an
infectious disease are completed. Upon discovery of any infectious disease
affecting animals in the city, the County Veterinarian shall establish such
quarantine, sanitary, testing, immunizing and control measures as may be
necessary to control or eradicate such disease and prevent the spread thereof
to other animals. The County Veterinarian may quarantine any animal upon the
land or premises where such diseased animal has been kept, and thereafter, it
shall be unlawful for any person to break such quarantine or to move or allow
to be moved any such animals from within the premises thus quarantined, or
across the quarantine line so established, without first obtaining permission
from the County Veterinarian. If, after inspection, the County Veterinarian
shall deem it proper to issue such a permit, they may cause such animal,
premises and vehicles of transportation and any infected materials, equipment
or effects to be properly cleaned and disinfected.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-164) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-165 DAMAGING OR REMOVING QUARANTINE NOTICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, during the existence of a quarantine as
authorized by this subchapter, to remove, tear, deface, mutilate, obscure or
otherwise destroy or interfere with any placard, notice or proclamation
declaring such quarantine.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-165) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-166 REMOVAL OF LIVESTOCK FROM SLAUGHTERHOUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or to allow to be removed,
except for immediate slaughter, any livestock from any stockyard owned,
controlled or operated by or in connection with or incidental to the operation
of any slaughterhouse or packinghouse, except on permits issued by the county
veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-166) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-167 BRINGING LIVESTOCK AFFECTED WITH INFECTIOUS DISEASE INTO CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring into or receive into the city
any livestock known to be affected with any contagious, infectious or
communicable disease, unless such animals are specifically permitted to enter
the state and the city under federal or state regulations, and then only under
the conditions and for the purpose prescribed in the federal and state
regulations governing movement of livestock.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-167) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-168 REPORT OF ARRIVAL AND IDENTIFICATION OF DAIRY CATTLE.
   The arrival of dairy cattle into the city shall be reported to the County
Veterinarian immediately. The County Veterinarian may mark the cattle for
identification with tags or other means, and make a record showing the date of
arrival, a description of the cattle, the name of the owner and of the person
in charge of the cattle and the place in which they are to be kept. No person
shall remove or tamper with any identification mark placed on any animal by the
County Veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-168) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§§ 10-1-169—10-1-173 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 10-1-174 UNAUTHORIZED TUBERCULIN INJECTION.
   No person shall inject or cause to be injected tuberculin into any cattle
except when used in connection with a tuberculin test.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-174) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-175 INTERFERING WITH TUBERCULIN TEST.
   No person shall move any cattle upon which a tuberculin test has been
started until the test has been completed without the permission of the
veterinarian conducting such test, nor shall any person in any way interfere
with such tests.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-175) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-176 TESTING OF CATTLE FOR TUBERCULOSIS.
   Whenever the County Veterinarian shall have cause to believe that there is
danger that cattle in the city, or any cattle brought into the city, are
afflicted with tuberculosis, they shall cause such cattle to be examined and
tested for tuberculosis.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-176) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-177 IDENTIFICATION AND DISPOSITION OF CATTLE AFFLICTED WITH
TUBERCULOSIS.
   All cattle which are shown by the tuberculin test to be afflicted with
tuberculosis shall be immediately marked for identification by branding the
letter “T” on the left jaw. The “T” shall be three inches in height from top to
bottom and two inches wide at the top, and the branding edge shall be not less
than one-quarter inch in width. No animals so branded shall be slaughtered or
disposed of in any manner or removed from the premises where located when
branded, unless permission is first obtained from the county veterinarian or
from the Director of the California Department of Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-177) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-178 CONFINEMENT OF LIVESTOCK FOR PURPOSE OF TESTING OR INOCULATION.
   The owner or person in charge of livestock shall properly confine in
stanchions or chutes any livestock which the County Veterinarian may designate
for examination, injection, vaccination, observation or administration of
tuberculin mallein or for other tests or purposes. If the owner or person in
charge refuses to properly confine such livestock for examination, test or
vaccination as requested, the County Veterinarian may employ help and incur
such expense as is necessary to properly control such livestock for the
purposes mentioned. The expenses incurred shall be a lien upon the livestock
and shall be recovered by action in the name of the city, unless paid within
ten days after written notice of the amount has been given by the County
Veterinarian to the owner or person in possession of the livestock.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-178) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-179 REPORT OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES.
   Any person having knowledge of the presence of an infectious disease in
livestock shall report the presence of the disease to the County Veterinarian.
All persons owning or having control of livestock shall assist the County
Veterinarian in enforcing the provisions of this chapter and shall obey all
orders of the County Veterinarian made for the control and eradication of
infectious disease, the sanitation of premises, the destruction of livestock
and the disposal of carcasses, manure, offal and refuse.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-179) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-1-180 AUTHORITY OF COUNTY VETERINARIAN REGARDING ANIMALS UNLAWFULLY
BROUGHT INTO CITY.
   All animals brought into the city in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to quarantine, examination and test, at the
expense of the owner, by the County Veterinarian, who may dispose of such
livestock to protect the public health and the health of domestic animals of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-180) (Ord. 2022-215, § 3, passed 6-7-2022)
§§ 10-1-181—10-1-190 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 11. RESERVED ****
§§ 10-1-191—10-1-299 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
***** CHAPTER 2: ADDITIONAL OR UNUSUAL ANIMAL PERMITS, LICENSING OF ANIMAL
FACILITIES, EXHIBITIONS AND ANIMAL EVENTS *****
Section
Subchapter 1. General Licensing Procedures
10-2-1   Applications for licenses
10-2-2   License fees
10-2-3   Duration of license
10-2-4   Reasons for denial
10-2-5   Form of license
10-2-6   Display of license
10-2-7   Revocation of license
10-2-8   Licenses not transferable
10-2-9   Appeals
10-2-10   Licenses required
10-2-11   Conditions
10-2-12   Inspection by officials
10-2-12—10-2-19   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Additional or Unusual Animal License
10-2-20   Purpose
10-2-21   Application - filing
10-2-22   Issuance of license
10-2-23   Conditions and inspections
10-2-24   Limitations on and duration of license
Subchapter 3. Licensing of Animal Facilities
10-2-25   Regulations
10-2-26   Dog kennel
10-2-27   Cat kennel
10-2-28   Pet shop
10-2-29   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Animal Exhibition and Animal Event Licenses
10-2-30   Scope
10-2-31   Animal safekeeping
10-2-32   Water supply
10-2-33   Fly control
10-2-34   Final cleanup
10-2-35—10-2-37   Reserved
Subchapter 5. Pet Shop - Sale of Animals
10-2-38   Sale of dog, cats and rabbits prohibited
10-2-39   Inspection by officials
10-2-40   Enforcement and remedies
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. GENERAL LICENSING PROCEDURES ****
§ 10-2-1 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES.
   The Director shall develop and manage an animal facility licensing process
and receive all applications for animal licenses. The Director thereafter shall
provide such application forms as are necessary for the convenience of the
city, public and the economic and efficient administration of this title.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-300) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-2 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The City of Mission Viejo shall establish the amount of fees to be
charged for the application and/or issuance of an animal facility license and
additional/unusual animal license.
   (B)   Such fees shall be applicable in the city upon adoption by resolution
of the City Council in accordance with applicable law. Such fees shall be
payable in full and shall not be refundable.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-301) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-3 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   Each animal facility license shall be in effect for one year from the date
on which it was issued, unless otherwise provided by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-302) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-4 REASONS FOR DENIAL.
   The Director shall deny the application for an animal facility or
additional/unusual animal license if it is found that:
   (A)   The applicant does not fulfill the specific requirements for such
license as set forth in this title;
   (B)   The applicant has made any false, misleading or otherwise deceptive
statement in their application;
   (C)   The applicant is not a fit person to carry on the licensed animal
facility business, as determined by specific and definite evidence in the
record; and
   (D)   The issuance of an animal facility license to the applicant, or at the
location desired, would be detrimental to the public health, safety or general
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-303) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-5 FORM OF LICENSE.
   The animal facility or additional/ unusual animal license and each duplicate
thereof shall contain the date of issuance, the date of expiration, the
location(s) of the licensed activity, the signature of the Director and such
other matters as are specified in this title and as the Director deems
appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-304) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-6 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Each animal facility licensee shall display their license or duplicate
license in a prominent location in each licensed facility; or if there is none
in the city, shall carry their license on the licensee’s person at all times
when conducting the licensed animal facility or animal-related business; or, if
a vehicle is licensed, in such vehicle; and each licensee shall display their
license to any peace officer so requesting to see it.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-305) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-7 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   When the Director has issued an animal facility or additional/unusual animal
license under the terms of this title, the same may be revoked at any time
thereafter by the Director if the Director becomes satisfied that the conduct
of the licensee’s animal facility or additional/unusual animal does not or will
not comport with the public welfare for any reason or that the same has been
conducted in an illegal, improper or disorderly manner, or in a manner
substantially different than that described in the licensee’s application, or
for any other reason for which the application could have been denied.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-306) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-8 LICENSES NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No animal facility or additional/unusual animal license issued under the
terms of this title shall be transferable or used in conjunction with any
activity other than the licensed animal facility business, and no such license
shall be displayed by any person other than the licensee or their employee, nor
at any location other than that indicated in the license or application.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-307) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-9 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person whose application for an animal facility or additional/
unusual animal license is denied, or whose license is revoked, under the terms
of this title, by the Director, may in writing request an administrative
hearing to appeal the denial or revocation of an animal facility or additional/
unusual animal license. The request for appeal through an administrative
hearing shall be delivered to the Director within 30 calendar days of the
action appealed from. The Animal Services Department shall hold an
administrative hearing on such appeal, and notice of the time, date and place
of the hearing shall be mailed to the licensee or applicant at the address
given in the license application at least ten days prior to the date of the
hearing. For the purpose of the hearing, the Director may appoint any qualified
hearing officer to take evidence offered by the applicant and the Director
concerning the denial or revocation and summarize the evidence presented and
report their findings and recommendations based on such evidence to the
Director.
   (B)   The following rules of evidence shall apply.
      (1)   Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or affirmation.
      (2)   Each party shall have these rights: to call and examine witnesses,
to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine opposing witnesses covered in the
direct examination, to impeach any witness regardless of which party first
called them to testify and to rebut the evidence against them. If the
respondent does not testify in their own behalf, they may be called and
examined as if under cross-examination.
      (3)   The hearing will be informal and not be conducted according to
judicial rules relating to evidence and witnesses. Any relevant evidence shall
be admitted if it is the sort of evidence on which responsible persons are
accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the
existence of any common law or statutory rule which might make improper the
admission of such evidence over objection in civil actions. Hearsay evidence
may be used for the purpose of supplementing or explaining any direct evidence
but shall not be sufficient in itself to support a finding, unless it would be
admissible over objection in civil actions. The rules of privilege shall be
effective to the same extent that they are now or hereafter may be recognized
in civil actions, and irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence shall be
excluded.
   (C)   Within 15 days following the conclusion of the hearing, the Director
shall determine, on all the evidence presented to them, or on the summary of
evidence and findings of fact and recommendations of the person holding the
hearing, whether the denial or revocation under this section should be
rescinded or amended. Within five working days following such decision, the
Director shall notify in writing the person requesting the hearing of their
determination as to any issue as to which the hearing was requested.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-308) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-10 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to maintain additional or unusual
animals, or to engage in, conduct, manage or carry on any of the following
animal events, facility, businesses, practices, professions or occupations
within the city without first having obtained a license therefor in accordance
with this title:
   (A)   Animal exhibition;
   (B)   Animal rental establishment;
   (C)   Additional or unusual animal;
   (D)   Commercial stable;
   (E)   Grooming facility;
   (F)   Kennel;
   (G)   Pet shop; and
   (H)   Animal event.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-309) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-11 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Director shall establish conditions for each type of license to
ensure that such animals will be kept or maintained in accordance with the
findings required by §
10-2-4 or the requirements of §
10-1-38. The list of conditions shall be supplied to applicants of the specific
licenses.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the established conditions may, at the
discretion of the Director, result in the denial of a license pursuant to § 10-
2-303 or revocation of a license pursuant to § 10-2-306.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-310) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-12 INSPECTION BY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Prior to the approval of an application, the animal facility, animal
event or animal exhibition shall be inspected by an animal control officer to
ensure compliance with the conditions established pursuant to §§
10-2-11 and
10-2-4 and compliance with other applicable local and state laws. If the
license is for an event, the inspection shall take place the day of the event.
Random unannounced inspections may take place at the discretion of the
Director.
   (B)   Failure to allow for an inspection of an animal facility, animal event
or animal exhibition. during normal operating hours may, at the discretion of
the Director, result in the denial of a license pursuant to §
10-2-4 or revocation of a license pursuant to §
10-2-7.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-311) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§§ 10-2-13—10-2-19 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. ADDITIONAL OR UNUSUAL ANIMAL LICENSE ****
§ 10-2-20 PURPOSE.
   The additional or unusual animal license is established to permit the
keeping or maintaining as a pet or for the personal utilization by members of
the household on the premises or kept as fosters or for the purpose of adoption
the following:
   (A)   Wild or domestic animals pursuant to §
10-1-94 or animals not specifically classified which will not jeopardize,
endanger or otherwise constitute a menace to the public health, safety or
general welfare; and
   (B)   Domestic or wild animals exceeding the number permitted, or on lots or
parcels of land having less than the area required, which will not be
materially detrimental to the use, enjoyment or valuation of property of other
persons located in the vicinity of such site.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-400) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-21 APPLICATION - FILING.
   Any person desiring an additional or unusual animal license may file an
application together with any fee established by the City of Mission Viejo,
with the Director, except that no application shall be filed or accepted if
final action has been taken within one year prior thereto by the Director on an
application requesting the same, or substantially the same license.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-401) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-22 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   At the Director’s discretion, the Animal Services Department may grant an
additional or unusual animal license when the following criteria are met:
   (A)   That the requested animal or animals at the location proposed will not
jeopardize, endanger or otherwise constitute a menace to the public health,
safety or general welfare;
   (B)   That the proposed site is adequate in size and shape to accommodate
the animal or animals requested without material detriment to the use,
enjoyment or valuation of the property of other persons located in the vicinity
of the site;
   (C)   That the owner and/or custodian has complied with, and the maintenance
of animals at the location proposed will comply with, any other applicable
laws, including zoning regulations; and
   (D)   There have been no substantiated complaints regarding the proposed use
and the use will not interfere with the enjoyment or valuation of property of
others. The Director shall deny the application where the information submitted
by the applicant fails to substantiate these criteria to the reasonable
satisfaction of the Director.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-402) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-23 CONDITIONS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Director, in approving an application for an additional or unusual
animal license, may impose such conditions as are deemed necessary to ensure
that such animals will be kept or maintained in accordance with the findings
required by §
10-2-4 or the requirements of §
10-1-38.
   (B)   Prior to the approval of an application for additional or unusual
animals, the property shall be inspected by an animal control officer to ensure
compliance with the conditions established pursuant to division (A) above and §
10-2-22 and compliance other applicable local and state laws. Random
unannounced inspections may take place at the discretion of the Director.
   (C)   Failure to allow for an inspection of a property within ten days of a
request and at the discretion of the Director, may result in the denial of a
license pursuant to §
10-2-4 or revocation of a license pursuant to §
10-2-7.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-403) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-24 LIMITATIONS ON AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each individual additional or unusual animal must be licensed under
this subchapter. An additional or unusual animal license shall specify the
number and types of animals authorized to be kept on the parcel, and shall
contain any conditions deemed necessary by the Director.
   (B)   The additional or unusual animal license is non-transferable and must
be renewed annually.
   (C)   Failure to comply with the requirements set forth in this title,
regulations promulgated by the City of Mission Viejo or regulations promulgated
by resolution of the City Council of the City of Laguna Niguel, or conditions
imposed by the Director shall constitute cause for denial or revocation of the
license.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-404) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. LICENSING OF ANIMAL FACILITIES ****
§ 10-2-25 REGULATIONS.
   All animal facilities must comply with the requirements of §
10-1-38. In addition, all animal facilities shall comply with the regulations
adopted by the City of Mission Viejo which govern the construction and
maintenance of animal facilities licensed under this title, including animal
exhibitions, animal rental establishments, kennels, grooming facility and pet
shops. Failure to comply with such regulations shall constitute cause for
denial or revocation of such license.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-405) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-26 DOG KENNEL.
   In addition to complying with §
10-1-38, holders of a dog kennel license must comply with the following
additional requirements.
   (A)   Dog kennel runs shall be of concrete, provided with adequate draining
for proper sanitation, or, if sand or pea gravel is used, droppings must be
picked up and disposed of and the runs treated periodically with an effective
disinfectant.
   (B)   All dogs under the custody or control of a dog kennel must be
vaccinated for rabies in accordance with the provisions of §
10-1-60. Upon the sale of any dog for which a kennel has obtained a vaccination
pursuant to this section, the owner of such kennel or pet shop shall provide
the purchaser of such dog with the certificate of vaccination.
   (C)   (1)   The holder of a dog kennel license shall keep available for
inspection on the premises a record that shall show:
         (a)   Any animal kept or maintained contrary to the provisions of this
code or any regulation adopted thereunder or any state statute. The name,
current address and telephone number of the owner of each animal kept at the
kennel;
         (b)   The reason for such animal being at the kennel, such as for
boarding, sale, breeding or grooming; and
         (c)   Vaccination for the prevention of distemper and parvo, date of
vaccination, lot number and manufacturer.
      (2)   As a part of such record, a current, valid rabies certificate shall
be maintained for every dog over four months of age so long as such dog is kept
at the kennel.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-406) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-27 CAT KENNEL.
   In addition to complying with §
10-1-38, holders of a cat kennel license must comply with the following
additional requirements.
   (A)   The cat kennel operator shall keep all cats therein under proper
confinement on the premises and shall not cause, permit or allow such cats to
be or to run at large.
   (B)   An individual license shall be obtained for each cat, in addition to a
kennel license, when such cat is not kept exclusively in a kennel run or cage.
No individual license shall be required for any cat in transit, or when
attending a cat show in the care of a kennel representative.
   (C)   Each cat must have been vaccinated with a FVRCP vaccine to prevent
feline distemper/ panleukopenia.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-407) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-28 PET SHOP.
   (A)   In addition to complying with the requirements of §
10-1-38, the holder of a pet shop license shall obtain a rabies vaccination for
each dog within its custody or control in accordance with the provisions of §
10-1-60.
   (B)   Upon the sale of any dog for which a kennel or pet shop has obtained a
vaccination pursuant to this section, the owner of such kennel or pet shop
shall provide the purchaser of such dog with the certificate of vaccination.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-408) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-29 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. ANIMAL EXHIBITION AND ANIMAL EVENT LICENSES ****
§ 10-2-30 SCOPE.
   All animal exhibitions and animal events shall comply with §
10-1-38 and the requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-410) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-31 ANIMAL SAFEKEEPING.
   All animals shall be kept in a manner to prevent escape and in a manner to
not endanger human life or damage property.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-411) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-32 WATER SUPPLY.
   All water supplied for domestic use shall be from an approved source of
potable water.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-412) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-33 FLY CONTROL.
   Fly breeding shall be controlled by removing all organic waste daily from
the premises. This includes cleaning of the vehicles, upon arrival, that
transport the animals. Insecticides, both residual and quick knockdown sprays,
shall be available and used as directed by the health officer.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-413) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-34 FINAL CLEANUP.
   The licensee shall ensure all animal waste, trash and other debris is
promptly removed at the conclusion of the animal event or animal exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-414) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§§ 10-2-35—10-2-37 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 5. PET SHOP - SALE OF ANIMALS ****
§ 10-2-38 SALE OF DOG, CATS AND RABBITS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A pet shop or retail pet store or its operator shall not sell,
deliver, offer for sale, barter, auction or otherwise dispose of a cat, dog or
rabbit, except as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   A publicly operated animal shelter or animal control enforcement
agency, animal rescue organization or nonprofit humane society;
      (2)   A pet shop or retail pet store offering a cat, dog or rabbit owned
by an animal shelter or animal rescue organization for purposes of adoption of
the cat, dog or rabbit by a member of the public, so long as the pet shop does
not receive any fee from the adoption and does not have any monetary or
ownership interest in the cat, dog or rabbit;
      (3)   The sale or offering for sale of a dog, cat or rabbit as part of an
adoption event held by an animal shelter or rescue organization if the retail
pet store or pet shop does not receive any payment from the sale or offering or
for the use of the store or store resources in connection with the adoption
event; or
      (4)   Dogs, cats and/or rabbits sold directly from the premises upon
which they are born and reared or through a breeder, excluding pet shops or
retail pet stores.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-418) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-39 INSPECTION BY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Each pet shop or retail pet store shall maintain records sufficient to
document the source of each dog, cat or rabbit that the pet shop acquires for
at least one year following the date of acquisition. Such records shall be made
available immediately upon request to any police officer, code enforcement
officer, animal control officer, humane law enforcement officer or other
investigating official.
   (B)   The city, county or any investigating official shall have the right to
enter the premises of any pet shop or retail pet store from time to time during
regular business hours to conduct reasonable inspections to ensure and verify
compliance with this subchapter. No person shall refuse to permit or interfere
with a lawful inspection of any pet shop or retail pet store by city or county
investigating officials.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-419) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-2-40 ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   A violation of any provision of this subchapter or failure to comply
with any requirement thereof shall be a violation of law. Each event or
transaction in which a dog, cat or rabbit is sold or offered for sale in
violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person, operator, pet shop or retail pet store operating or
conducting or maintaining a pet shop or retail pet store contrary to the
provisions of this subchapter and/or state and federal laws shall be and the
same is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. The City Attorney
may, in addition to the penalties proscribed in this section, commence an
action or actions, proceeding or proceedings for the abatement, removal or
enjoinment thereof, in any manner provided by law.
   (C)   The remedies and penalties provided in this section are cumulative and
in addition to any other remedies available at law or in equity.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-420) (Ord. 2022-215, § 4, passed 6-7-2022)
***** CHAPTER 3: ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS FOR TITLE 10 VIOLATIONS *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Administrative Citation Procedure
10-3-1   Scope
10-3-2   Definitions
10-3-3   Reserved
10-3-4   Reserved
10-3-5   Procedure for serving administrative citation
10-3-6   Administrative fee; late payment charges; correctable violations
10-3-7   Payment of administrative fine
10-3-8   Request for administrative hearing
10-3-9   Time for administrative hearing
10-3-10   Request for continuance of hearing
10-3-11   Appointment of administrative hearing officer
10-3-12   Procedures at administrative hearing
10-3-13   Failure to attend administrative hearing
10-3-14   Decision of administrative hearing officer
10-3-15   Collection of administrative fine
10-3-16   Appeal of decision of administrative hearing officer
10-3-17   Failure to pay administrative fine; remedies and enforcement
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION PROCEDURE ****
§ 10-3-1 SCOPE.
   This subchapter provides for administrative remedies for any violation of
this title, which remedies may be pursued in lieu of any other legal remedy,
criminal or civil, which may be pursued by the city or animal services to
address any violation of this title. The City Attorney or City Prosecutor shall
have sole discretion to determine whether a violation will be prosecuted
criminally. The remedies and penalties provided in this subchapter are
cumulative and in addition to any other remedies available at law or in equity.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-600) (Ord. 2022-215, § 5, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-3-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITATION PROCESSING CENTER. An approved vendor to the Animal Services
Department who holds a current contract to process administrative citations.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. Any person authorized to enforce the provisions of the
Laguna Niguel Municipal Code or any other code or regulations regulating animal
services incorporated by reference by the City of Laguna Niguel.
   LEGAL INTEREST. Any interest that is represented by a deed of trust,
quitclaim deed, mortgage, judgment lien, tax or assessment lien, mechanic’s
lien or other similar instrument, which is recorded with the County Recorder.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. Any person whom an enforcement official determines is
responsible for causing or maintaining a violation of this title. The term
RESPONSIBLE PERSON includes, but is not limited to, an animal owner, property
owner, tenant, person with a legal interest in real property or person in
possession of real property.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-601) (Ord. 2022-215, § 5, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-3-3 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 10-3-4 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 10-3-5 PROCEDURE FOR SERVING ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION.
   An enforcement official may issue an administrative citation, on a form
approved by the Director, to a responsible person, as follows.
   (A)   (1)   By personally delivering the administrative citation to a
responsible person, posting an administrative citation in a conspicuous place
on the residence of the responsible person or by mailing the administrative
citation to the responsible person, the mailing shall be sent by certified
mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested.
      (2)   Simultaneously, the same notice may be sent by regular mail. If a
notice sent by certified mail is returned unsigned, then service shall be
deemed effective pursuant to regular mail; provided the notice that was sent by
regular mail is not returned.
   (B)   If the responsible person is a corporation, the enforcement official
shall attempt to locate any one of the following individuals and issue to that
individual an administrative citation: the president or other head of the
corporation, a vice president, a secretary or assistant secretary, a treasurer
or assistant treasurer, a general manager or a person authorized by the
corporation to receive service of process in a civil action. If the office
address of any of the above listed individuals is known to the city, a copy of
the administrative citation also shall be mailed to one of those individuals by
certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested. Simultaneously, the
same notice may be sent by regular mail. If a notice sent by certified mail is
returned unsigned, then service shall be deemed effective pursuant to regular
mail; provided the notice that was sent by regular mail is not returned.
   (C)   If the responsible person is a business other than a corporation, the
enforcement official shall attempt to locate the business owner and issue the
business owner an administrative citation. If the enforcement official can
locate only the manager of the business, the administrative citation may be
given to the manager of the business. If the address of the business is known,
a copy of the administrative citation also shall be mailed to that address to
the attention of the business owner or a responsible person. The mailing shall
be sent by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested.
Simultaneously, the same notice may be sent by regular mail. If a notice sent
by certified mail is returned unsigned, then service shall be deemed effective
pursuant to regular mail; provided the notice that was sent by regular mail is
not returned.
   (D)   The enforcement official shall attempt to obtain on the administrative
citation the signature of the responsible person, or in cases in which the
responsible person is a corporation or business, the signature of the person
served with the administrative citation. If a responsible person or person
served refuses or fails to sign the administrative citation, the failure or
refusal to sign shall not affect the validity of the citation or of subsequent
proceedings.
   (E)   If the enforcement official is unable to locate a responsible person
for the violation, the administrative citation shall be mailed to the
responsible person by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested. Simultaneously, the same notice may be sent by regular mail. If a
notice sent by certified mail is returned unsigned, then service shall be
deemed effective pursuant to regular mail; provided the notice that was sent by
regular mail is not returned.
   (F)   If the enforcement official does not succeed in serving the
responsible person personally, or by certified mail or regular mail, the
enforcement official shall post the administrative citation on any real
property within the city in which the city has knowledge that the responsible
party has a legal interest, and such posting shall be deemed effective service.
   (G)   If the enforcement official does not succeed in serving the
responsible person personally, by certified mail or regular mail, and the city
is not aware that the responsible party has a legal interest in any real
property within the city, the enforcement official shall cause the
administrative citation to be published once a week for four successive weeks
in a local newspaper published at least once a week.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-604) (Ord. 2022-215, § 5, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-3-6 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE; LATE PAYMENT CHARGES; CORRECTABLE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The administrative fine imposed pursuant to this chapter for any
violation of this title shall be in the amount set forth in the administrative
citation schedule established by the resolution of the City Council. The
schedule shall specify the amount of any late payment charges imposed for
failure to timely pay the fine. This section does not apply to animal nuisance
violations pursuant to §
10-1-48.
   (B)   At the issuing officer’s discretion, an administrative citation for
violations listed in Title 10, Chapter 1, Subchapters 3 and 4 may be deemed
correctable. It is the responsible person’s responsibility to correct the
violations and submit proof of the correction to the citation processing center
no later than 30 days from the issuance date of the administrative citation. If
corrected within the specified time frame, the administrative fine will be
reduced to the cost of processing the citation.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-605) (Ord. 2022-215, § 5, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-3-7 PAYMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE FINE.
   The administrative fine shall be paid to the city within 30 days from the
issuance date of the administrative citation. If, after a hearing requested
pursuant to §
10-3-8, the hearing officer determines that the administrative citation should
be canceled, the administrative fine shall be refunded in accordance with §
10-3-14.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-606) (Ord. 2022-215, § 5, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-3-8 REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   (A)   Any responsible person to whom an administrative citation is issued
may contest the citation no later than 30 days from the issuance date of the
administrative citation by:
      (1)   Providing an appeal to the citation processing center; and
      (2)   Depositing the administrative fine with the citation processing
center.
   (B)   The person requesting the hearing shall be notified by of the time and
place of the hearing at least ten days before the date of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-607) (Ord. 2022-215, § 5, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-3-9 TIME FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   Only after a request for a hearing is filed, and the responsible person
requesting the hearing has deposited the administrative fine in full, shall the
citation processing center set the date and time for the administrative
hearing. The hearing shall be set for a date not less than 15 days nor more
than 60 days after the request for hearing form is filed, and the
administrative fine is deposited with the citation processing center. The
citation processing center shall send notice of the date, time and place of the
hearing to the person requesting the hearing at least ten days before the date
of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-608) (Ord. 2022-215, § 5, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-3-10 REQUEST FOR CONTINUANCE OF HEARING.
   The responsible person requesting a hearing may request one continuance, but
in no event may the hearing begin later than 90 days after the request for
hearing form is filed, and the administrative fine is deposited with the
citation processing center.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-609) (Ord. 2022-215, § 5, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-3-11 APPOINTMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER.
   The Director of the Department through which the administrative citation was
issued or their designee shall select an administrative hearing officer. The
administrative hearing officer may be, without limitation, a member of the
staff of the Department through which the administrative citation was issued.
In no event, however, shall the enforcement official who issued the
administrative citation be the administrative hearing officer.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-610) (Ord. 2022-215, § 5, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-3-12 PROCEDURES AT ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   Administrative hearings are informal, and formal rules of evidence and
discovery do not apply. Each party shall have the opportunity to present
evidence in support of their case and to cross-examine witnesses. The city
bears the burden of proof at an administrative hearing to establish a violation
of this title. The administrative citation and any additional reports submitted
by the enforcement official shall constitute prima facie evidence of the facts
contained in those documents. The administrative hearing officer must use
preponderance of evidence as the standard of evidence in deciding the issues.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-611) (Ord. 2022-215, § 5, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-3-13 FAILURE TO ATTEND ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   (A)   If the responsible person fails to attend the scheduled hearing, the
hearing will proceed without the responsible person, and they will be deemed to
have waived their right to an administrative hearing. Notwithstanding this
waiver and the time limits set forth in §
10-3-9, if service of the administrative citation is made by posting the
citation on real property within the city in which the responsible person has a
legal interest, and the responsible person provides verifiable and substantial
evidence that removal of the administrative citation from the property by a
third-party caused the responsible person’s failure to attend the scheduled
hearing, the responsible person shall be entitled to an administrative hearing.
   (B)   If the hearing is to contest an administrative citation for a
violation of §
10-1-48, failure of the animal owner or responsible person to appear at the
hearing, unless the hearing was continued by the Animal Services Department
prior to the hearing date, shall constitute abandonment and will require the
citation fine to be paid. Failure of the complainant to appear at the hearing,
unless the hearing was continued by the Animal Services Department, shall
constitute abandonment of the complaint and shall be grounds for dismissal of
the nuisance violation and citation. The complainant’s failure to appear shall
be noted and mailed to the animal owner and complainant.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-612) (Ord. 2022-215, § 5, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-3-14 DECISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER.
   No later than 30 days after the date on which the administrative hearing
concludes, the administrative hearing officer shall issue a written decision to
uphold or cancel the administrative citation. The administrative hearing
officer shall set forth the reasons for the decision. The decision shall be
served upon the responsible person by the applicable method set forth in §
10-3-5. If the administrative hearing officer upholds the administrative
citation, the City of Mission Viejo shall retain the fine deposited by the
responsible person. If the administrative hearing officer cancels the
administrative citation, any fine deposited with the citation processing center
shall be promptly refunded. The administrative hearing officer’s written
decision is final, and shall notify the responsible person of their right to
appeal as provided in §
10-3-16.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-613) (Ord. 2022-215, § 5, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-3-15 COLLECTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE FINE.
   The Animal Services Department may collect any past-due administrative fine
or late payment charges by use of any available legal means.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-614) (Ord. 2022-215, § 5, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-3-16 APPEAL OF DECISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   Within 20 days after service of the decision of the administrative
hearing officer upon the responsible person, they may seek review of the
decision by filing a notice of appeal with the Municipal Court.
   (B)   The responsible person shall serve upon the City Clerk of the City of
Mission Viejo either in person or by first class mail a copy of the notice of
appeal.
   (C)   If the responsible person fails to timely file a notice of appeal, the
administrative hearing officer’s decision shall be deemed confirmed.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-615) (Ord. 2022-215, § 5, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 10-3-17 FAILURE TO PAY ADMINISTRATIVE FINE; REMEDIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Failure to pay an administrative fine is a misdemeanor. Filing a criminal
misdemeanor action does not preclude the city from using any other legal remedy
available to gain compliance with the administrative order. The remedies and
penalties provided in this section are cumulative and in addition to any other
remedies available at law or in equity.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-616) (Ord. 2022-215, § 5, passed 6-7-2022), Safety and
Welfare
TITLE 11: PUBLIC MORALS, SAFETY AND WELFARE
Chapter
   1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   2.   FIREARMS AND DANGEROUS WEAPONS
   3.   FIRE PROTECTION AND EXPLOSIVES
   4.   DISORDERLY CONDUCT, PLACES AND PUBLICATIONS
   5.   GAMBLING
   6.   MINORS
   7.   POLICE REGULATIONS AND PUBLIC PROTECTION
   8.   PROPERTY PROTECTION
   9.   PUBLIC SAFETY
   10.   CHARITABLE OR PHILANTHROPIC SOLICITATION
   11.   UNLAWFUL EXPOSURE OF PRIVATE PARTS AND FEMALE BREASTS
   12.   NUDITY ON PUBLIC BEACHES, IN PARKS OR WITHIN PUBLIC VIEW
   13.   ITEM PRICE MARKING ON PACKAGED CONSUMER COMMODITIES
   14.   NUISANCES
   15.   EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
   16.   ABANDONED PERSONAL PROPERTY AND ENCAMPMENTS
***** CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS *****
[Reserved]
***** CHAPTER 2: FIREARMS AND DANGEROUS WEAPONS *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Firearms Generally
11-2-1   Discharge of firearms prohibited; exceptions
11-2-2—11-2-21   Reserved
11-2-22   Firing ranges
11-2-23   Firing over public highway
11-2-24—11-2-29   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Threats with Replica Firearms
11-2-30   Definitions
11-2-31   Prohibited acts
Cross-reference:
Possession or discharge of firearms in parks and recreation areas, see §
13-1-37
Retail sale of concealable firearms, see §
5-3-240
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. FIREARMS GENERALLY ****
§ 11-2-1 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a peace officer acting
in their official line of duty, to shoot, fire or discharge, or for any person
to cause or permit to be shot, fired or discharged, in the territory lying
within the boundaries of the city, any rifle, shotgun, pistol, revolver or
firearm, except when it may be necessary so to do to protect life or property,
or to destroy or kill any predatory or dangerous animal.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the term FIREARM shall also include any
instrument which expels a metallic projectile, such as a BB or a pellet,
through the force of air pressure, CO2 pressure or spring action, or any spot
marker gun.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 92-56, § 2,
passed 7-21-1992)
§§ 11-2-2—11-2-21 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 11-2-22 FIRING RANGES.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be deemed or construed to
prohibit, within the territory lying within the boundaries of the city, the
establishment or maintenance of any pistol, rifle or target range, or to
prohibit the discharge at any target thereon, by any person using such range,
of any rifle, shotgun, pistol, revolver or firearm in or on such range, if such
range is so installed, constructed, safeguarded, equipped and used as to
adequately prevent any bullet, shot or missile from being projected beyond the
confines of such range.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-22) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 92-56, § 13,
passed 7-21-1992)
§ 11-2-23 FIRING OVER PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a peace officer acting in
their official line of duty, to shoot, fire or discharge, or for any person to
cause or permit to be shot, fired or discharged, upon, along or across any
public highway, road, street or way in the city, any rifle, shotgun, pistol,
revolver or firearm, except when it may be necessary so to do in the protection
of life or property.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-23) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 11-2-24—11-2-29 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. THREATS WITH REPLICA FIREARMS ****
§ 11-2-30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREARM. Has the same meaning as defined in California Penal Code, § 16520.
   REPLICA FIREARM. Includes, but is not limited to, any device or object of
any other material which has the appearance of a firearm or imitation firearm,
as that term is defined in California Penal Code, § 16700, sufficient to lead a
reasonable person to believe that it is an actual operable firearm.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-30) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 11-2-31 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Every person who, except in the defense of themself, of property or of
others, draws, exhibits or brandishes a replica firearm in a rude or
threatening manner, and causes another to reasonably feel threatened thereby,
is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-31) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
***** CHAPTER 3: FIRE PROTECTION AND EXPLOSIVES *****
Section
Subchapter 1. 2025 Edition of the California Fire Code
11-3-1   Adoption of the 2025 Edition of the California Fire Code
11-3-2   Chapter 1, Scope and Administration, amended
11-3-3—11-3-84   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Fire Regulations
11-3-85   Fire and blasting restrictions
11-3-86   Smoking restrictions
11-3-87   Burning flammable vegetation
11-3-88   Campfires
11-3-89   Campsite defined
11-3-90—11-3-94   Reserved
11-3-95   Closing of private property to smoking and public use
11-3-96   Reserved
11-3-97   Firebreaks required
11-3-98   Disposal of combustible material
11-3-99   Disposal of fallen timber and plant and tree cuttings
11-3-100   Issuance of permits
11-3-101—11-3-199   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Fire Protection in State Responsibility Areas
11-3-200   Assumption of responsibility by city
11-3-201—11-3-299   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Reserved
11-3-300—11-3-499   Reserved
Subchapter 5. Formation and Continued Existence of Fire Companies
11-3-500   Determination of need
11-3-501—11-3-504   Reserved
11-3-505   Recordation
11-3-506—11-3-509   Reserved
11-3-510   Administration of subchapter; recommendations to City Council
11-3-511—11-3-599   Reserved
Subchapter 6. Alarm Systems and Businesses and False Alarms
11-3-600   Definitions
11-3-601   Alarm system standards
11-3-602   Central station permit
11-3-603   Automatic communication devices
11-3-604   Responsibilities of alarm businesses and alarm subscribers or users
11-3-605   Alarm businesses, central station and false alarm service charges
11-3-606   Intentional false alarms
11-3-607   Tampering with or damaging alarm systems
11-3-608   Violation of subchapter; enforcement
11-3-609—11-3-699   Reserved
Subchapter 6.1. False Alarms and Payment of Costs
11-3-700   False alarm fee
11-3-701   Sheriff’s Department to collect fee
11-3-702   Alarm system defined
11-3-703   Costs defined
11-3-704—11-3-799   Reserved
Subchapter 7. Fire Hazard Severity Zone
11-3-800   Fire hazard severity zone map
Cross-reference:
Blasting permit, see §
8-1-808
Hazardous material disclosure, §
6-3-200 et seq.
Nuisances, see §§
11-14-1 et seq.
Oil drilling and production, see §§
8-8-1 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. 2025 EDITION OF THE CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE ****
§ 11-3-1 ADOPTION OF THE 2025 EDITION OF THE CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE.
   Except as hereinafter provided, the 2025 Edition of the California Fire
Code, based on the 2024 Edition of the International Fire Code, as published by
the International Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference by the city for
the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life
and property from fire and explosion hazards, save and except such portions as
are hereinafter added, deleted, modified or amended. One copy of all the above
is now on file in the office of the City Clerk for public inspection. This code
is adopted with the same force and effect as through set out herein in full.
(Ord. 2025-238, § 2, passed 12-2-2025)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2025-238, adopted 12-2-2025, repealed the former Subchapter 1, § 11-3-
1, and enacted a new Subchapter 1 as set out herein. The former Subchapter 1
pertained to the 2022 Edition of the California Fire Code and derived from Ord.
2022-220, § 2, 11-15-2022.
§ 11-3-2 CHAPTER 1, SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION, AMENDED.
   (A)   Chapter 1, “Scope and Administration”, is adopted in only those
sections and subsections adopted by the SFM, with the following amendments:
      (1)   Section 113.4, “Violation penalties”, is hereby revised as follows:
113.4 Violation penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of this code
or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or shall fail to
comply with any issued orders or notices or who shall erect, install, alter,
repair or do work in violation of the approved construction documents or
directive of the Fire Code Official, or of a permit or certificate used under
provisions of this code, shall be subject to penalties assessed as prescribed
in the OCFA Prevention Field Services adopted fee schedule. Each day that a
violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate
offense.
      (2)   Section 113.4.2, “Infraction and misdemeanor”, is hereby added as
follows:
113.4.2 Infraction and misdemeanor. Persons operating or maintaining any
occupancy, premises or vehicle subject to this Code that shall permit any fire
or life safety hazard to exist on premises under their control shall be guilty
of an infraction. Persons who fail to take immediate action to abate a fire or
life safety hazard when ordered or notified to do so by the Chief or a duly
authorized representative are guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Chapter 2, “Definitions”, is adopted in its entirety as amended by
State Fire Marshal (“SFM”) with the following amendments:
   Sections 202, “General Definitions”, is hereby revised by adding the terms
“OCFA” and “Spark Arrester”, as follows:
OCFA. Orange County Fire Authority, the fire authority having jurisdiction.
SPARK ARRESTER. A listed device constructed of noncombustible material
specifically for the purpose of meeting one of the following conditions:
      1.   Removing and retaining carbon and other flammable particles/debris
from the exhaust flow of an internal combustion engine in accordance with
California Vehicle Code Section 38366.
      2.   Fireplaces that burn solid fuel in accordance with California
Building Code Chapter 28.
   (C)   Chapter 3, “General Requirements”, is adopted in its entirety, with
the exception of §§ 308.1.4, 311.5, 318 and with the following amendments:
      (1)   Section 304.1.3, “Vegetation”, is hereby revised as follows:
304.1.3 Vegetation. Weeds, grass, vines, or other growth that is capable of
being ignited and endangering property, shall be cut down and removed by the
owner or occupant of the premises. Vegetation clearance requirement in urban-
wildland interface areas shall be in accordance with Part 7, the California
Wildland-Urban Interface Code. Type, amount, arrangement, and maintenance of
vegetation in a fuel modification area, interior slope, or similarly hazardous
area shall be in accordance with OCFA Guideline C-05 “Vegetation Management
Guideline: Technical Design for New Construction, Fuel Modification Plans, and
Maintenance Program.
      (2)   Section 305.6, “Hazardous conditions”, is hereby added as follows:
305.6 Hazardous conditions. Outdoor fires burning wood or other solid fuel are
not allowed when any of the following conditions apply:
      1.   When predicted sustained winds exceed 8 MPH and relative humidity is
less than 25%, or a red flag condition has been declared;
      2.   When an official sign was caused to be posted by the Fire Code
Official, or a public announcement is made.
No outdoor fires using any fuel type are permitted when predicted sustained
winds exceed 20 MPH or when such fires present a hazard as determined by the
Fire Code Official.
      (3)   Section 305.7, “Disposal of rubbish”, is hereby added as follows:
305.7 Disposal of rubbish. Rubbish, trash, or combustible waste material shall
be burned only within an approved incinerator and in accordance with Section
307.2.1.
      (4)   Section 307, “Open burning, recreational fires and portable outdoor
fireplaces”, is hereby revised as follows:
Section 307 Open burning, recreational fires, fire pits, fire rings, and
portable outdoor fireplaces.
      (5)   Sections 307.6, “Outdoor fireplaces, fire pits, fire rings, and
outdoor fireplaces”, is hereby added as follows:
307.6 Outdoor fireplaces, fire pits, fire rings, or similar devices used at
Group R occupancies. Outdoor fireplaces, fire pits, fire rings, or similar
exterior devices used at Group R occupancies shall comply with this section.
Exception: Barbeques, grills, and other portable devices intended solely for
cooking.
      (6)   Section 307.6.1, “Gas -fueled devices”, is hereby added as follows:
307.6.1 Gas-fueled devices. Outdoor fireplaces, fire pits and similar devices
fueled by natural gas or liquefied-petroleum gas are allowed when approved by
the Building Department and the device is designed to only burn a gas flame and
not wood or other solid fuel. At R-3 occupancies, combustible construction and
vegetation shall not be located within three feet of an atmospheric column that
extends vertically from the perimeter of the device. At other R occupancies,
the minimum distance shall be ten feet. Where a permanent Building Department
approved hood and vent is installed, combustible construction may encroach upon
this column between the bottom of the hood and the vent opening. Where chimneys
or vents are installed, they shall have a spark arrester as defined in Section
202.
      (7)   Section 307.6.2, “Devices using wood or fuels other than natural
gas or liquefied -petroleum gas”, is hereby added as follows:
307.6.2 Devices using wood or fuels other than natural gas or liquefied-
petroleum gas. Permanent outdoor fireplaces burning wood or other solid fuel
shall be constructed in accordance with the California Building Code with
clearance from combustible construction and building openings as required
therein. Fires in a fireplace shall be contained within a firebox with an
attached chimney. The opening in the face of the firebox shall have an
installed and maintained method of arresting sparks.
The burning of wood or other solid fuel in a device is not allowed within 25
feet of combustible structures unless within an approved permanent fireplace.
Conditions which could cause a fire to spread within 25 feet of a structure or
to vegetation shall be eliminated prior to ignition. Fires in devices burning
wood or solid fuel shall be in accordance with Sections 305, 307, and 308.
Exceptions:
      1.   Portable fireplaces and fire rings/pits equipped with a device to
arrest sparks shall be located at least 3 feet from combustible construction at
R-3 occupancies.
      2.   Portable fireplaces, and fire pits/rings equipped with a device to
arrest sparks, shall be located at least 15 feet from combustible structures at
other R occupancies.
      (8)   Section 307.6.2.1, “Where prohibited”, is hereby added as follows:
307.6.2.1 Where prohibited. The burning of wood and other solid fuels shall not
be conducted within a fuel modification zone, Wildfire Risk Area (WRA),
Wildland-Urban Interface Area (WUI), or in locations where conditions could
cause the spread of fire to the WRA or WUI.
Exceptions:
      1.   Permanent fireplaces that are not located in a fuel modification
zone
      2.   Where determined by the Fire Code Official that the location or
design of the device should reasonably prevent the start of a wildfire.
      (9)   Section 324.1, “Fuel modification requirements for new
construction”, is hereby added as follows:
324.1 Fuel modification requirements for new construction. All new structures
and facilities adjoining land containing hazardous combustible vegetation shall
be approved and in accordance with the requirements of OCFA Guideline C-05
“Vegetation Management Guideline – Technical Design for New Construction Fuel
Modification Plans and Maintenance Program.”
      (10)   Section 325.1, “Clearance of brush or vegetation growth from
roadways”, is hereby added as follows:
325.1 Clearance of brush or vegetation growth from roadways. The Fire Code
Official is authorized to cause areas within 10 feet (3048 mm) on each side of
portions of highways and private streets which are improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular traffic, to be cleared of flammable vegetation
and other combustible growth. Measurement shall be from the flow-line or the
end of the improved edge of the roadway surfaces.
Exception: Single specimens of trees, ornamental shrubbery or cultivated ground
cover such as green grass, ivy, succulents or similar plants used as ground
covers, provided that they do not form a means of readily transmitting fire.
      (11)   Section 326.1, “Unusual circumstances”, is hereby added as
follows:
326.1 Unusual circumstances. The Fire Code Official may suspend enforcement of
the vegetation management requirements and require reasonable alternative
measures designed to advance the purpose of this Code if determined that in any
specific case that any of the following conditions exist:
      1.   Difficult terrain.
      2.   Danger of erosion.
      3.   Presence of plants included in any state and federal resources
agencies, California Native Plant Society and county-approved list of wildlife,
plants, rare, endangered and/or threatened species.
      4.   Stands or groves of trees or heritage trees.
      5.   Other unusual circumstances that make strict compliance with the
clearance of vegetation provisions undesirable or impractical.
      (12)   Section 327.1, “Use of equipment”, is hereby added as follows:
327.1 Use of equipment. Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person
shall use, operate, or cause to be operated in, upon or adjoining any hazardous
fire area any internal combustion engine which uses hydrocarbon fuels, unless
the engine is equipped with a spark arrester as defined in Section 202
maintained in effective working order, or the engine is constructed, equipped,
and maintained for the prevention of fire.
Exceptions:
      1.   Engines used to provide motor power for trucks, truck tractors,
buses, and passenger vehicles, except motorcycles, are not subject to this
section if the exhaust system is equipped with a muffler as defined in the
Vehicle Code of the State of California.
      2.   Turbocharged engines are not subject to this section if all
exhausted gases pass through the rotating turbine wheel, there is no exhaust
bypass to the atmosphere, and the turbocharger is in good mechanical condition.
      (13)   Section 327.2, “Use of equipment and devices generating heat,
sparks or open flames”, is hereby added as follows:
327.2 Use of equipment and devices generating heat, sparks or open flames.
During any time of the year within Wildfire Risk Areas, within or immediately
adjacent to any forest- or brush-covered land or non-irrigated grass-covered
land, no person shall use or operate any welding equipment, cutting torches,
tar pots, grinding devices, or other tools or equipment that may produce a
spark, fire, or flame that could result in a wildfire without doing the
following:
      1.   First clearing away all flammable material, including snags, from
the area around such operation for a distance of 30 feet or other approved
method to reduce fire spread into the wildlands. If 30-foot clearing cannot be
achieved, then an alternate method shall be approved by the authority having
jurisdiction prior to work starting.
      2.   Maintain one serviceable round point shovel with an overall length
of not less than 46 inches and one backpack pump water-type fire extinguisher
fully equipped and ready for use at the immediate area during the operation.
      3.   Stop work when winds are 8 MPH or greater during periods when
relative humidity is less than 25%, or a red flag condition has been declared
or public announcement is made, when an official sign was caused to be posted
by the Fire Code Official, or when such fires present a hazard as determined by
the Fire Code Official.
      4.   Keep a cell phone nearby and call 911 immediate in case of fire.
      (14)   Section 327.3, “Spark arresters”, is hereby added as follows:
327.3 Spark arresters. Spark arresters shall comply with Section 202, and when
affixed to the exhaust system of engines or vehicles subject to Section 327
shall not be placed or mounted in such a manner as to allow flames or heat from
the exhaust system to ignite any flammable material.
   (D)   Chapter 4, “Emergency Planning and Preparedness”, is adopted in only
those sections and subsections adopted by the SFM with the following amendment:
   Section 407.5, “Hazardous Materials Inventory Statement”, is hereby revised
as follows:
407.5 Hazardous Materials Inventory Statement. Where required by the Fire Code
Official, each application for a permit shall follow OCFA’s Guideline G-04
“Completion of the Chemical Classification” in accordance with Section
5001.5.2.
   (E)   Chapter 5, “Fire Service Features”, is adopted in its entirety as
amended by the SFM with the following amendments:
      (1)   Section 501.1, “Scope”, is hereby revised as follows:
501.1 Scope. Fire service features for buildings, structures and premises shall
comply with this chapter and, where required by the Fire Code Official, with
OCFA Guideline B-01, “Fire Master Plan for Commercial & Residential
Development.”
      (2)   Section 510.1, “Emergency responder communications enhancement
systems in new buildings”, is hereby deleted and replaced as follows:
510.1 Emergency responder radio coverage in new buildings. All new buildings
shall have approved radio coverage for emergency responders within the building
based upon the existing coverage levels of the public safety communication
systems of the jurisdiction at the exterior of the building. This section shall
not require improvement of the existing public safety communication systems.
The Emergency Responder Radio Coverage System shall comply with the Orange
County Sheriff’s Department, Communications and Technology Division guidelines
and specifications and, where the functionality or performance requirements in
the California Fire Code are more stringent, this Code.
Exceptions:
      1.   In buildings or structures where it is determined by the Fire Code
Official that the radio coverage system is not needed, including but not
limited to the following:
         1.1.   Existing buildings or structures, unless required by the
Building Official and OCFA for buildings and structures undergoing extensive
remodel and/or expansion.
         1.2   Elevators.
         1.3   Structures that meet all of the following:
            i.   Three stories or less, and
            ii.   Do not have subterranean storage or parking, and
            iii.   Do not exceed 50,000 square feet on any single story.
         1.4   Structures that meet all of the following:
            i.   Residential structures four stories or less, and
            ii.   Constructed of wood, and
            iii.   Do not have subterranean storage or parking, and
            iv.   Are not built integral to an above ground multi-story parking
structure.
            Should a structure that is three stories or less and 50,000 square
feet or smaller on any single story include subterranean storage or parking,
then this ordinance shall apply only to the subterranean areas.
      2.   In facilities where emergency responder radio coverage is required
and such systems, components or equipment required could have a negative impact
on the normal operations of the facility, the Fire Code Official shall have the
authority to accept an automatically activated emergency radio coverage system.
   (F)   Chapter 6, “Building Services and Systems”, is adopted in its entirety
as amended by the SFM.
   (G)   Chapter 7, “Fire and Smoke Protection Features”, is adopted in its
entirety as amended by the SFM.
   (H)   Chapter 8, “Interior Finish, Decorative Materials and Furnishings”, is
adopted in its entirety as amended by the SFM.
   (I)   Chapter 9, “Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems”, is adopted in
its entirety as amended by the SFM with the following amendments:
      (1)   Section 903.2, “Where required”, is hereby revised as follows:
903.2 Where required. Approved automatic sprinkler systems in buildings and
structures shall be provided when one of the following conditions exists:
      1.   New buildings: Notwithstanding any applicable provisions of Sections
903.2.1 through 903.2.21, an automatic fire sprinkler system shall also be
installed in all occupancies when the total building area, as defined in
Section 202, exceeds 5,000 square-feet (465 square-meters) as defined in
Section 202, regardless of fire areas or allowable area, or is more than two
stories in height.
Exception: Subject to approval by the Fire Code Official, open parking garages
in accordance with Section 406.5 of the California Building Code, that are
smaller than the area specified in section 903.2.10 (3) or 903.2.10.1 of the
California Fire Code.
      2.   Existing Buildings: Notwithstanding any applicable provisions of
this code, an automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in an existing
building when an addition occurs and when one of the following conditions
exists:
         2.1   When an addition is 33% or more of the existing building area,
and the resulting building area exceeds 5,000 square feet.
         2.2   When an addition exceeds 2,000 square feet, and the resulting
building area exceeds 5,000 square feet.
         2.3   An additional story is added above the second floor regardless
of fire areas or allowable area.
Exception: Additions to Group R-3 occupancies. Group R-3 occupancies shall
comply with Section 903.2.8 (2).
      (2)   Section 903.2.8, “Group R”, is hereby revised as follows:
903.2.8 Group R. An automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with
Section 903.3 shall be provided throughout all buildings with a Group R fire
area as follows:
      1.   New Buildings: An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed
throughout all new buildings.
      2.   Existing R-3 Buildings: An automatic sprinkler system shall be
installed throughout when one of the following conditions exists:
         2.1   When the floor area of alterations within any two-year period
exceeds 50% of gross floor area of the existing structure and the building
gross floor area exceeds 5,500 square feet; or:
         2.2   When an existing Group R Occupancy is being substantially
renovated, and where the scope of the renovation is such that the Building Code
Official determines that the complexity of installing a sprinkler system would
be similar as in a new building.
[The exceptions in this section are hereby adopted unchanged]
      (3)   Section 903.3.5.3, “Hydraulically calculated systems”, is hereby
added as follows:
903.3.5.3 Hydraulically calculated systems. The design of hydraulically
calculated fire sprinkler systems shall not exceed 90% of the water supply
capacity.
Exception: When static pressure exceeds 100 psi, and when required by the Fire
Code Official, the sprinkler system shall not exceed water supply capacity
specified by Table 903.3.5.3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4951.jpg]
 
   (J)   Chapter 10, “Means of Egress”, is hereby adopted in its entirety as
amended by the SFM.
   (K)   Chapter 11, “Construction Requirements for Existing Buildings”, is
hereby adopted in only those sections and subsections adopted by the SFM.
   (L)   Chapter 12, “Energy Systems”, is hereby adopted in its entirety as
amended by the SFM.
   (M)   Chapter 20, “Aviation Facilities”, is hereby adopted in its entirety.
   (N)   Chapter 21, “Dry Cleaning”, is hereby adopted in its entirety as
amended by the SFM.
   (O)   Chapter 22, “Combustible Dust-Producing Operations”, is hereby adopted
in its entirety.
   (P)   Chapter 23, “Motor Fuel-Dispensing Facilities and Repair Garages”, is
here by adopted in its entirety as amended by the SFM.
   (Q)   Chapter 24, “Flammable Finishes”, is hereby adopted in its entirety as
amended by the SFM.
   (R)   Chapter 25, “Fruit and Crop Ripening”, and Chapter 26, “Fumigation and
Insecticidal Fogging”, are not adopted.
   (S)   Chapter 27, “Semiconductor Fabrication Facilities”, is hereby adopted
in its entirety.
   (T)   Chapter 28, “Lumber Yards and Agro-Industrial, Solid Biomass and
Woodworking Facilities”, is hereby adopted in its entirety with the following
amendments:
      (1)   Section 2801.2, “Permit”, is hereby revised as follows:
2801.2 Permit. Permits shall be required as set forth in Section 105.5 and
105.5.31.
      (2)   Section 2808.2, “Storage site”, is hereby revised as follows:
2808.2 Storage site. Storage sites shall be level and on solid ground, elevated
soil lifts or other all-weather surface. Sites shall be thoroughly cleaned and
approval obtained from the Fire Code Official before transferring products to
the site.
      (3)   Section 2808.3, “Size of piles”, is hereby revised as follows:
2808.3 Size of piles. Piles shall not exceed 15 feet in height, 50 feet in
width and 100 feet in length.
Exception: The Fire Code Official is authorized to allow the pile size to be
increased where a fire protection plan is provided for approval that includes,
but is not limited to, the following:
      1.   Storage yard areas and materials-handling equipment selection,
design and arrangement shall be based upon sound fire prevention and protection
principles.
      2.   Factors that lead to spontaneous heating shall be identified in the
plan, and control of the various factors shall be identified and implemented,
including provisions for monitoring the internal condition of the pile.
      3.   The plan shall include means for early fire detection and reporting
to the public fire department; and facilities needed by the fire department for
fire extinguishment including a water supply and fire hydrants.
      4.   Fire apparatus access roads around the piles and access roads to the
top of the piles shall be established, identified, and maintained.
      5.   Regular yard inspections by trained personnel shall be included as
part of an effective fire prevention maintenance program.
Additional fire protection called for in the plan shall be provided and shall
be installed in accordance with this Code. The increase of the pile size shall
be based upon the capabilities of the installed fire protection system and
features.
      (4)   Section 2808.3.1, “Increase in pile or stack size”, is hereby
deleted in its entirety.
      (5)   Section 2808.4, “Pile separation”, is hereby revised as follows:
2808.4 Pile separation. Piles shall be separated from adjacent piles by a
minimum distance of 20 feet. Additionally, piles shall have a minimum
separation of 100 feet from combustible vegetation.
      (6)   Section 2808.7, “Pile fire protection”, is hereby revised as
follows:
2808.7 Pile fire protection. Automatic sprinkler protection shall be provided
in conveyor tunnels and combustible enclosures that pass under a pile.
Combustible conveyor systems and enclosed conveyor systems shall be equipped
with an approved automatic sprinkler system. Oscillating sprinklers with a
sufficient projectile reach are required to maintain a 40% to 60% moisture
content and wet down burning/smoldering areas.
      (7)   Section 2808.9, “Material-handling equipment”, is hereby revised as
follows:
2808.9 Material-handling equipment. All material-handling equipment operated by
an internal combustion engine shall be provided and maintained with an approved
spark arrester. Approved material-handling equipment shall be available for
moving wood chips, hogged material, wood fines and raw product during fire-
fighting operations.
      (8)   Section 2808.11, “Temperature control”, is hereby added as follows:
2808.11 Temperature control. The temperature shall be monitored and maintained
as specified in Sections 2808.11.1 and 2808.11.2.
      (9)   Section 2808.11.1, “Pile temperature control”, is hereby added as
follows:
2808.11.1 Pile temperature control. Piles shall be rotated when internal
temperature readings are in excess of 165 degrees Fahrenheit.
      (10)   Section 2808.11.2, “New material temperature control”, is hereby
added as follows:
2808.11.2 New material temperature control. New loads delivered to the facility
shall be inspected and tested at the facility entry prior to taking delivery.
Material with temperature exceeding 165 degrees Fahrenheit shall not be
accepted on the site. New loads shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter and be monitored to verify that the temperature remains stable.
      (11)   Section 2808.12, “Water availability”, is hereby added as follows:
2808.12 Water availability. Facilities with over 2500 cubic feet shall provide
a water supply. The minimum fire flow shall be no less than 500 GPM @ 20 psi
for a minimum of 1 hour duration for pile heights up to 6 feet and 2-hour
duration for pile heights over 6 feet. If there is no water purveyor, an
alternate water supply with storage tank(s) shall be provided for fire
suppression. The water supply tank(s) shall provide a minimum capacity of 2500
gallons per pile (maximum 30,000 gallons) for piles not exceeding 6 feet in
height and 5000 gallons per pile (maximum 60,000) for piles exceeding 6 feet in
height. Water tank(s) shall not be used for any other purpose unless the
required fire flow is left in reserve within the tank at all times. An approved
method shall be provided to maintain the required amount of water within the
tank(s).
      (12)   Section 2808.13, “Tipping area”, is hereby added as follows:
2808.13 Tipping areas. Tipping areas shall comply with the following:
         1.   Tipping areas shall not exceed a maximum area of 50 feet by 50
feet.
         2.   Material within a tipping area shall not exceed 5 feet in height
at any time.
         3.   Tipping areas shall be separated from all piles by a 20-foot-wide
fire access lane.
         4.   A fire hydrant or approved fire water supply outlet shall be
located within 150 feet of all points along the perimeter of the tipping area.
         5.   All material within a tipping area shall be processed within 5
days of receipt.
      (13)   Section 2808.14, “Emergency contact Information”, is hereby added
as follows:
2808.14 Emergency contact. The contact information of a responsible person or
persons shall be provided to the Fire Department and shall be posted at the
entrance to the facility for responding units. The responsible party should be
available to respond to the business in an emergency.
      (14)   Section 2808.15, “Maximum grids of piles and rows”, is hereby
added as follows:
2808.15 Maximum grids of piles and rows. Rows of Piles shall not exceed 500
feet by 500 feet. Grids shall be separated by a minimum 50-foot clear space
used for no other purpose.
      (15)   Section 2808.16, “Push-out/Clear area”, is hereby added as
follows:
2808.16 Push-out/Clear area. Piles exceeding 20 cubic yards shall be provided
with push-out areas. Push-out areas shall be maintained clear at all times to
allow for the largest pile to be spread out to a depth of 2 feet in height.
Push-out areas shall be located within 250 feet of all edges of any pile and
shall be located a minimum of 20 feet from any building.
   (U)   Chapter 29, “Manufacture of Organic Coatings”, and Chapter 30,
“Industrial Ovens”, are adopted in their entirety without amendments.
   (V)   Chapter 31, “Tents, Temporary Special Event Structures and Other
Membrane Structures”; Chapter 32, “High-Piled Combustible Storage”; Chapter 33,
“Fire Safety During Construction and Demolition”; and Chapter 34, “Tire
Rebuilding and Tire Storage”, are adopted in their entirety as amended by the
SFM.
   (W)   Chapter 35, “Welding and Other Hot Work”; Chapter 36, “Marinas”;
Chapter 37, “Combustible Fibers”; Chapter 39, “ Processing and Extraction
Facilities”; Chapter 40, “Storage of Distilled Spirits and Wines”; and Chapter
48, Motion Picture and Television Production Studio Sound Stages, Approved
Production Facilities and Production Locations”, are hereby adopted in their
entirety without amendments.
   (X)   Chapter 50, “Hazardous Materials – General Provisions”, is hereby
adopted in its entirety as amended by the SFM with the following amendments:
      (1)   Section 5001.5.2, “Hazardous materials inventory statement (HMIS)”,
is hereby revised as follows:
5001.5.2 Hazardous materials inventory statement (HMIS). Where required by the
Fire Code Official, an application for a permit shall follow Orange County Fire
Authority’s Guideline G-04, “Completion of the Chemical Classification,” which
shall be completed and approved prior to approval of plans, and/or the storage,
use or handling of chemicals on the premises.
      (2)   Section 5003.1.1.1, “Extremely hazardous substances”, is hereby
added as follows:
5003.1.1.1 Extremely hazardous substances. No person shall use or store any
amount of extremely hazardous substances (EHS) in excess of the disclosable
amounts (see Health and Safety Code Section 25500 et al) in any residential
zoned or residentially developed property.
   (Y)   Chapter 51, “Aerosols”, and Chapter 53, “Compressed Gases”, are hereby
adopted in their entirety.
   (Z)   Chapter 54, “Corrosive Materials”, is hereby adopted in its entirety
as amended by the SFM.
   (AA)   Chapter 55, “Cryogenic Fluids”, is hereby adopted in its entirety.
   (BB)   Chapter 56, “Explosives and Fireworks”, is adopted in its entirety as
amended by the SFM, with the following amendments:
      (1)   Section 5608.2, “Firing”, is hereby added as follows:
5608.2 Firing. All firework displays, regardless of mortar, device, or shell
size, shall be electrically fired.
      (2)   Section 5608.3, “Application for permit”, is hereby added as
follows:
5608.3 Application for permit. A diagram of the grounds on which the display is
to be held showing the point at which the fireworks are to be discharged, the
fallout area based on 100 feet per inch of shell size, the location of all
buildings, roads, and other means of transportation, the lines behind which the
audience will be restrained, the location of all nearby trees, telegraph or
telephone line, or other overhead obstructions shall be provided to OCFA.
   (CC)   Chapter 57, “Flammable and Combustible Liquids”, is hereby adopted in
its entirety as amended by the SFM.
   (DD)   Chapter 58, “Flammable Gases and Flammable Cryogenic Fluids”, is
hereby adopted in its entirety as amended by the SFM.
   (EE)   Chapter 59, “Flammable Solids”; Chapter 60, “ Highly Toxic and Toxic
Materials”; Chapter 61, “Liquefied Petroleum Gases”; Chapter 62, “Organic
Peroxides”; Chapter 63, “Oxidizers, Oxidizing Gases, and Oxidizing Cryogenic
Fluids”; Chapter 64, “Pyrophoric Materials”; Chapter 65, Pyroxylin (Cellulose
Nitrate) Plastics”; Chapter 66, “Unstable (Reactive) Materials”; and Chapter
67, “Water-Reactive Solids and Liquids”, are hereby adopted in their entirety.
   (FF)   Chapter 80, “Referenced Standards”, is adopted in its entirety as
amended by the SFM, with the following amendments:
      (1)   NFPA 13, 2025 Edition, “Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler
Systems”, is hereby amended as follows:
         (a)   Section 9.2.1.7 is hereby revised as follows
Section 9.2.1.7. Concealed spaces filled with noncombustible insulation shall
not require sprinkler protection when approved by the Fire Code Official.
         (b)   Section 9.4.3.1 is hereby revised as follows:
9.4.3.1 When fire sprinkler systems are installed in shell buildings of
undetermined use (spec buildings) other than warehouses (S occupancies), fire
sprinklers of the quick-response type shall be used. Use is considered
undetermined if a specific tenant/occupant is not identified at the time the
fire sprinkler plan is submitted. Sprinklers in light hazard occupancies shall
be one of the following:
      1.   Quick-response type as defined in 3.3.215.4.16.
      2.   Residential sprinklers in accordance with the requirements of
Chapter 12.
      3.   Quick response CMSA sprinklers.
      4.   ESFR sprinklers.
      5.   Standard-response sprinklers used for modifications or additions to
existing light hazard systems equipped with standard-response sprinklers.
      6.   Standard-response sprinklers used where individual standard-response
sprinklers are replaced in existing light hazard systems.
         (c)   Section 16.12.3.3 is hereby revised as follows:
Section 16.12.3.3. Fire department connections (“ FDC”) shall be of an approved
type. The location shall be approved and be no more than 150 feet from a public
hydrant. The FDC may be located within 150 feet of a private fire hydrant when
approved by the Fire Code Official. The size of piping and the number of 2.5-
inch inlets shall be approved by the Fire Code Official. If acceptable to the
water authority, it may be installed on the backflow assembly. Fire department
inlet connections shall be painted OSHA safety red or as approved. When the
fire sprinkler density design requires more than 500 gpm (including inside hose
stream demand), or a standpipe system is included, four 2.5-inch inlets shall
be provided.
      (2)   NFPA 13D, 2025 Edition, “Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler
Systems in One- and Two-Family Dwellings and Manufactured Homes”, is hereby
amended as follows:
   Section 7.1.2 is hereby revised as follows:
Section 7.1.2. The sprinkler system piping shall not have separate control
valves installed unless supervised by a central station, proprietary, or remote
station alarm service.
      (3)   NFPA 24, 2025 Edition, “Standard for the Installation of Private
Fire Service Mains and Their Appurtenances”, is hereby amended as follows:
         (a)   Section 6.2.8.1 is hereby added as follows:
Section 6.2.8.1. All indicating valves controlling fire suppression water
supplies shall be painted OSHA red.
Exceptions:
      1.   Brass or bronze valves on sprinkler risers mounted to the exterior
of the building may be left unpainted.
      2.   Where OS&Y valves on the detector check assembly are the only
control valves, at least one OS&Y valve shall be painted red.
         (b)   Section 6.2.9 is hereby revised as follows:
Section 6.2.9. All connections to private fire service mains for fire
protection systems shall be arranged in accordance with one of the following so
that they can be isolated:
      (1)   A post indicator valve installed not less than 40 feet (12 meters)
from the building.
         (a)   For buildings less than 40 feet (12 meters) in height, a post
indicator valve shall be permitted to be installed closer than 40 feet (12
meters), but at least as far from the building as the height of the wall facing
the post indicator valve.
         (b)   Post indicating valves shall be allowed to be closer than 40
feet (12 meters) to the building when a property line or other physical
barriers make it impossible to have a post indicating valve 40 feet (12 meters)
away.
         (c)   Post indicating valves shall be allowed to be closer than 40
feet (12 meters) to the building when building driveway or fire access roadways
or other building traffic make it impractical to be 40 feet (12 meters).
         (d)   Indicating control valves installed in a fire-rated room
accessible from the exterior.
         (e)   Indicating control valves in a fire-rated stair enclosure
accessible from the exterior as permitted by AHJ.
         (f)   Any other valve type or location as permitted by AHJ.
      (2)   A wall post indicator valve on risers located within the building,
either a nonrising stem gate valve with a wall post indicator or a listed
butterfly valve with an indicating handle extending out through the building
wall.
      (3)   A backflow preventer with at least one indicating valve not less
than 40 feet (12 meters) from the building.
      (a)   For buildings less than 40 feet (12 meters) in height, a backflow
preventer with at least one indicating valve shall be permitted to be installed
closer than 40 feet (12 meters) but at least as far from the building as the
height of the wall facing the backflow preventer.
      (b)   Backflow preventer valves shall be allowed to be closer than 40
feet (12 meters) to the building when a property line or other physical
barriers make it impossible to have a backflow preventer, valve 40 feet (12
meters) away.
      (c)   Backflow preventer valves shall be allowed to be closer than 40
feet (12 meters) to the building when building driveway or fire access roadways
or other building traffic make it impractical to be 40 feet (12 meters).
      (4)   Indicating control valves installed in a fire-rated room accessible
from the exterior.
      (5)   Indicating control valves in a fire -rated stair enclosure
accessible from the exterior as permitted by the AHJ.
      (6)   Any other valve type or location as permitted by the AHJ.
         (c)   Section 10.1.5 is hereby added as follows:
Section 10.1.5. All ferrous pipe and joints shall be polyethylene encased per
AWWA C150, Method A, B, or C. All fittings shall be protected with a loose 8-
mil polyethylene tube or sheet. The ends of the tube or sheet shall extend past
the joint by a minimum of 12 inches and be sealed with 2-inch-wide tape
approved for underground use. Galvanizing does not meet the requirements of
this section.
Exception: 304 or 316 Stainless Steel pipe and fittings.
         (d)   Section 10.4.1.1 is hereby revised as follows:
Section 10.4.1.1. All bolted joint accessories shall be cleaned and thoroughly
coated with asphalt or other corrosion-retarding material after installation.
Exception: Bolted joint accessories made from 304 or 316 stainless steel.
         (e)   Section 10.4.1.1.1 is hereby added as follows:
Section 10.4.1.1.1. All bolts used in pipe-joint assembly shall be 316
stainless steel.
         (f)   Section 10.4.3.2 is hereby added as follows:
Section 10.4.3.2. Where fire service mains enter the building adjacent to the
foundation, the pipe may run under a building to a maximum of 24 inches, as
measured from the interior face of the exterior wall to the center of the
vertical pipe. The pipe under the building or building foundation shall be 304
or 316 stainless steel and shall not contain mechanical joints or it shall
comply with 10.4.3.2.1 through 10.4.3.2.4.
   (GG)   Appendices adopted and deleted.
      (1)   Appendix A is not adopted.
      (2)   Appendix B is adopted in its entirety as amended by the SFM.
      (3)   Appendix BB is adopted in its entirety.
      (4)   Appendix C is adopted in its entirety as amended by the SFM.
      (5)   Appendix CC is adopted in its entirety.
      (6)   Appendix D is not adopted.
      (7)   Appendix E is not adopted.
      (8)   Appendix F is not adopted.
      (9)   Appendix G is not adopted.
      (10)   Appendix H is deleted in its entirety.
      (11)   Appendix I is not adopted.
      (12)   Appendix J is not adopted.
      (13)   Appendix K is not adopted.
      (14)   Appendix L is not adopted.
      (15)   Appendix M is not adopted.
      (16)   Appendix N is not adopted.
      (17)   Appendix O is not adopted.
      (18)   Appendix P is not adopted.
(Ord. 2025-238, § 2, passed 12-2-2025)
§§ 11-3-3—11-3-84 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. FIRE REGULATIONS ****
§ 11-3-85 FIRE AND BLASTING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful in the city for any person to ignite or light a
fire or use fire for clearing land, or to burn brush, stumps, logs, fallen
timber, fallows, slash or grass or forest-covered land or any other flammable
material, or to blast with dynamite, powder or other explosives or set off
fireworks of any kind in any forest, fallows or brush-, grass- or grain-covered
land, either on their own land or the property of another, unless such burning
or blasting is done under a written permit from a federal or state officer or a
Fire Warden duly authorized to issue such permits within the city.
   (B)   No written permission shall be necessary to burn flammable material in
small heaps or piles, where the fire is set on a public road or in dooryard
premises, corrals, gardens or plowed fields, at a distance not less than 100
feet from any woodland, timber or brush-covered land or field containing dry
grass or other flammable material. There shall be at least one adult person in
actual attendance and in charge of such fire at all times during its burning.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the use of fires in permanent
homes for domestic purposes.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-85) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Campfires in parks, see §
13-1-65
   Parks and recreational facilities, see Title 13
§ 11-3-86 SMOKING RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke cigars, cigarettes, pipes or
other tobacco products in any form on or in any area designated as a high fire
hazard area by the City Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-86) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-3-87 BURNING FLAMMABLE VEGETATION.
   It shall be unlawful in the city for any person to set fire, or cause or
procure fire to be set, to any forest, brush or other flammable vegetation
growing on lands not their own, without permission of the owner or agent of
such lands, or to set, ignite, use or maintain a campfire or other fire on the
property of another or upon any public road, street or highway which contains a
cover of forest, brush, grass or other flammable vegetation, between April 15
and December 31 of any year, without first obtaining written permission from
the owner or their agent of such lands. Such written permission must be
approved by a forest ranger or duly authorized Fire Warden before starting such
fire, unless such person possesses a written campfire permit duly issued by or
under authority of the United States Forestry Service for use in a territory
under the jurisdiction of the United States Forestry Service and is fully
complying with all rules and regulations of the United States Forestry Service;
provided that no written permission shall be necessary to build or maintain
campfires within the boundaries of an established campground or site which has
been designated for such use by the Fire Warden or California Forest Ranger as
provided in §
11-3-88.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-87) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-3-88 CAMPFIRES.
   The Fire Warden or California Forest Ranger having charge and jurisdiction
of fire control in the city is hereby authorized, at their discretion, to
designate campgrounds or sites on private property by written request of the
owner, or on public roads with the permission of the owner of adjoining or
abutting lands, where campfires may be built and maintained, and the Fire
Warden or Ranger shall cause to be displayed proper signs or posters indicating
the limits or places where campfires may be built and maintained; provided,
however, that any person building or maintaining or using a campfire within the
boundaries of such campground or site shall, before leaving such campfire,
thoroughly extinguish the fire in such manner as to adequately prevent such
fire from burning thereafter, and that while any person is using or maintaining
such campfire there shall be at least one adult person in actual attendance and
in charge of such fire at all times during its burning.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-88) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Campfires in parks, see §
13-1-65
§ 11-3-89 CAMPSITE DEFINED.
   For purposes of this subchapter, a CAMPSITE or CAMPGROUND is hereby declared
to be a place which has been and is cleared from all underbrush, leaves,
needles and other inflammable vegetation or other material, other than a
building or structure, over a sufficient area to remove any danger of fire
spreading from such campground or site.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-89) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 11-3-90—11-3-94 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 11-3-95 CLOSING OF PRIVATE PROPERTY TO SMOKING AND PUBLIC USE.
   The Fire Warden or California Forest Ranger having charge and jurisdiction
of fire control in the city is hereby authorized, at their discretion, to close
any private property or portion thereof to smoking, or to all public use, by
written request of the owner of such private property, when such property
contains a cover of forest, brush or other highly inflammable vegetation
pertaining to range and watershed areas, and such Fire Warden or ranger closing
such property or portion thereof shall cause to be displayed suitable signs or
posters not less than three to the mile along all exterior boundaries and at
all roads and trails entering such property so closed to public use or smoking.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-95) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-3-96 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 11-3-97 FIREBREAKS REQUIRED.
   In the city, every person owning, leasing or controlling or operating any
apiary, house, cabin, hotel or other building or structure upon or adjoining
any mountainous or forest- or brush-covered land covered with other inflammable
vegetation, and every person owning, leasing or controlling any such land,
shall at all times maintain upon their land around or adjacent to such apiary,
cabin, house, hotel or other building or structure an effective fire protection
or firebreak. Such fire protection or firebreak shall be made by removing all
inflammable vegetation or growth that may exist from the ground around the
apiary, cabin, house, hotel or other building or structure for a distance of
not less than 30 feet, or to the property line of the property upon which such
structure is erected, from the exterior walls or surfaces thereof. This section
shall not apply to trees, except where dead or where the foliage of the tree is
within ten feet of a chimney, nor shall it apply to evergreen vegetation where
growing and preserved for decorative effect. Each chimney upon any cabin,
house, hotel, apiary, building or structure upon any mountainous or forest- or
brush-covered land shall be equipped with and the entire outlet thereof shall
be covered by an adequate metal spark arrester of a type and design approved by
the Fire Warden.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-97) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-3-98 DISPOSAL OF COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful in the city for any person to place or maintain, or
cause or permit to be placed or maintained, upon their own lands or lands of
another, any rubbish, paper, shavings, products of petroleum or other
combustible material which constitutes a fire menace, except at places
designated by a duly authorized Fire Warden. Such combustible material shall be
buried with earth or destroyed by fire by such person as provided in §
11-3-85.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-98) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-3-99 DISPOSAL OF FALLEN TIMBER AND PLANT AND TREE CUTTINGS.
   All fallen timber, slash, brush, grass, litter, limbwood or branches of
trees resulting from road building or clearing up of subdivisions, mountain
homesites and the like, within or upon any forest-, brush- or grass-covered
lands shall be destroyed by fire as provided under §
11-3-85, or disposed of in some other satisfactory manner, so that it will not
constitute a fire menace.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-99) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-3-100 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   To carry out the purpose of this subchapter, the Fire Warden, and their
deputies and federal and state forest officers, are hereby made peace officers
empowered to issue permits in writing to light fires, to use fires, to blast or
use explosives and to inspect and abate any condition that might constitute a
fire menace or a menace to the public peace, health or safety. Such Fire Warden
shall include in any permit such safeguarding restrictions and precautions as
are reasonably necessary to prevent such fires or blasting from endangering
life or property. No permit issued shall exonerate any person from civil or
criminal liability in case injury results from such fire to persons or
property. Any authorized Fire Warden or forest officer has the power to refuse,
revoke or postpone permits when necessary for the protection of life or
property.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-100) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 11-3-101—11-3-199 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. FIRE PROTECTION IN STATE RESPONSIBILITY AREAS ****
§ 11-3-200 ASSUMPTION OF RESPONSIBILITY BY CITY.
   Pursuant to Public Resources Code, § 4129, the city hereby elects to assume
responsibility for the prevention and suppression of all fires on all lands in
the city, including lands within state responsibility areas, subject to the
concurrence of the Director of the California Department of Forestry, but not
including lands owned or controlled by the federal government or any agency of
the federal government. Such assumption of responsibility is contingent on the
annual execution of a contract acceptable to the city, providing for the
reimbursement of the city’s costs of serving the state responsibility areas, as
provided in California Public Resources Code, § 4133.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-200) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-3-201—11-3-299 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. RESERVED ****
§§ 11-3-300—11-3-499 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 5. FORMATION AND CONTINUED EXISTENCE OF FIRE COMPANIES ****
§ 11-3-500 DETERMINATION OF NEED.
   The city hereby regulates the formation and continued existence of fire
companies pursuant to California Health and Safety Code, §§ 14825 et seq. The
City Council may authorize the formation or continued existence of fire
companies within the city where it determines that a reasonable level of fire
services does not already exist and where the provision of supplemental or
competing fire services by any other entity would not result in the
mismanagement of emergencies or in confusion to those seeking aid.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-500) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Administration and personnel, see Title 2
§§ 11-3-501—11-3-504 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 11-3-505 RECORDATION.
   No fire company may be formed or continue to exist by renewal pursuant to
California Health and Safety Code, § 14827, nor may the respective certificate
be recorded pursuant to California Health and Safety Code, §§ 14825 et seq.
until the determination required by this subchapter is made.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-505) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 11-3-506—11-3-509 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 11-3-510 ADMINISTRATION OF SUBCHAPTER; RECOMMENDATIONS TO CITY COUNCIL.
   The Director of Fire Services is charged with administration of this
subchapter as well as the authority to make recommendations to the City Council
as to any determination requested to be made under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-510) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 11-3-511—11-3-599 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 6. ALARM SYSTEMS AND BUSINESSES AND FALSE ALARMS ****
§ 11-3-600 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM. The giving, signaling or transmission to the Fire Department or its
stations or companies, or to any officer or employee thereof, whether by
telephone, spoken word or otherwise, of an indication or information to the
effect that there is a fire or other emergency at or near the place indicated
by the person, device or system giving, signalizing or transmitting such
information.
   ALARM BUSINESS. The work, occupation or profession of any person who
performs, authorizes, directs or causes the selling, leasing, maintaining,
servicing, inspecting, repairing, altering, replacement, moving or installing
of any alarm system, including any business that monitors alarms.
   ALARM SUBSCRIBER. Any person who purchases, leases, contracts for or
otherwise obtains an alarm system or the servicing or maintenance of an alarm
system.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any manual, mechanical or electrically operated circuits,
instruments or devices which, when activated, emit a sound or transmit an
alarm, a message or a trouble signal for the protection of life and property
from heat, smoke, fire, hazardous materials or medical emergency; provided,
however, that this definition shall not include domestic smoke, fire or burglar
alarm devices whose primary purpose is to awaken or alert persons on the
premises and which emit a light or sound only within the protected premises.
   AUTOMATIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE. Any electrical, electronic or mechanical
device capable of being programmed to send a prerecorded message, when
activated, over a telephone line or dedicated circuit to a central station.
   CENTRAL STATION. An office to which remote and supervisory signaling
circuits are connected, where personnel are in attendance at all times to
supervise the circuits and investigate signals.
   DIRECT ALARM SYSTEMS. Alarm systems electrically or otherwise connected
directly to the emergency response agency from the protected premises.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm necessitating response by the Fire Department where an
emergency situation does not exist. This shall include mechanical failure,
accidental tripping, misoperation, malfunction, misuse or neglect of an alarm
system.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT. The County Fire Department. The term FIRE DEPARTMENT
includes and also means the emergency response agency.
   PERSON. Any individual, occupant, business owner, partnership, corporation
or other entity.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-600) (Ord. 91-39, § 2, passed 7-16-1991; Ord. 91-40, § 2,
passed 8-6-1991)
Cross-reference:
   Business regulations, see Title 5
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 11-3-601 ALARM SYSTEM STANDARDS.
   All alarm systems shall meet or exceed the standards established by the Fire
Department, including National Fire Protection Association Codes 72A and 72C,
and such other regulations as may be adopted by the County Board of
Supervisors. All alarm systems, equipment, installations and repairs and all
fire and other emergency drills shall comply with rules and regulations
promulgated by the emergency response agency or the Fire Department regulating
the times and conditions under which such installations, repairs, tests or
drills may be made. All audible alarm systems shall, after activation, limit
the generation of the audible sound to a maximum of 15 minutes when the system
is protecting residential premises, and 30 minutes when an alarm is protecting
any other premises. This limitation shall be incorporated into the equipment at
the protected premises. The systems may include an automatic resetting device
causing the alarm system to re-arm upon automatic shutoff. The Director or
designee of the Fire Department may exempt any alarm system or kind or type of
alarm system from any or all of the requirements of this subchapter if, in
their opinion, such system does not create a substantial danger of generating
false alarms necessitating a response by an emergency response agency or the
Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-601) (Ord. 91-39, § 2, passed 7-16-1991; Ord. 91-40, § 2,
passed 8-6-1991)
§ 11-3-602 CENTRAL STATION PERMIT.
   All central stations, or any business which receives signals that an
emergency exists at a protected premises and transmits that information to the
emergency response agency or the Fire Department, shall be required to have a
permit from the Fire Department, which shall be renewed annually.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-602) (Ord. 91-39, § 2, passed 7-16-1991; Ord. 91-40, § 2,
passed 8-6-1991)
§ 11-3-603 AUTOMATIC COMMUNICATION DEVICES.
   (A)   No alarm system automatic communication device shall be programmed to
the 911 emergency line.
   (B)   Direct alarm systems shall not be connected to an emergency response
agency or the Fire Department except with permission of the emergency response
agency or the Fire Department.
   (C)   No person shall lease, maintain, install or use any alarm system which
automatically direct dials the telephone number of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-603) (Ord. 91-39, § 2, passed 7-16-1991; Ord. 91-40, § 2,
passed 8-6-1991)
§ 11-3-604 RESPONSIBILITIES OF ALARM BUSINESSES AND ALARM SUBSCRIBERS OR USERS.
   (A)   Each alarm business shall provide accurate and complete instructions
to the alarm system user in the proper use and operation of the system which is
provided to the user by that business or which is monitored by that business.
Specific instructions shall be included on the avoidance of false alarms.
   (B)   The alarm subscriber or user shall maintain the alarm system and
equipment in proper working order at all times.
   (C)   When an alarm system has been activated for an alarm subscriber, the
alarm business or central station shall arrange for a representative to have
the ability to be present at the location of the alarm within one hour after
being requested by the Fire Department. The user of an alarm system which is
not connected to an alarm business or central station shall designate a person
to be available to respond to the protected property within one hour after
being requested by the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-604) (Ord. 91-39, § 2, passed 7-16-1991; Ord. 91-40, § 2,
passed 8-6-1991)
§ 11-3-605 ALARM BUSINESSES, CENTRAL STATION AND FALSE ALARM SERVICE CHARGES.
   In addition to such other fines or penalties established by law, a false
alarm service fee is hereby imposed upon the residential occupants and
commercial owner and operator of the premises wherein a false alarm was made
and any central station owners and operators who initiated the Fire
Department’s response to such premises. The County Board of Supervisors is
hereby authorized to provide by resolution the amount of each fee which shall
be charged to those city residents who incur false alarm charges or penalties,
and other miscellaneous charges relating to alarm systems and businesses for
services provided by the Fire Department. Such fees are hereby imposed
effective August 1, 1991, as may be amended by the county from time to time.
The county is hereby authorized to administer and take collection and
enforcement action as may be necessary on such fees, charges and penalties.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-605) (Ord. 91-39, § 2, passed 7-16-1991; Ord. 91-40, § 2,
passed 8-6-1991)
§ 11-3-606 INTENTIONAL FALSE ALARMS.
   No person shall intentionally initiate a false alarm except for purposes of
testing an alarm system, and then only if made in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the Fire Department therefor and after having given the
emergency response agency for the Fire Department prior notice thereof. Any
person who violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
also be subject to such other penalties as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-606) (Ord. 91-39, § 2, passed 7-16-1991; Ord. 91-40, § 2,
passed 8-6-1991)
§ 11-3-607 TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING ALARM SYSTEMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, render inoperative or
maliciously damage any alarm system maintained for the purpose of sounding or
transmitting alarms, excepting alarm systems undergoing approved maintenance or
repairs.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-607) (Ord. 91-39, § 2, passed 7-16-1991; Ord. 91-40, § 2,
passed 8-6-1991)
§ 11-3-608 VIOLATION OF SUBCHAPTER; ENFORCEMENT.
   Violations of this subchapter shall be an infraction, unless otherwise noted
in this subchapter. This subchapter may be enforced by the city and the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-608) (Ord. 91-39, § 2, passed 7-16-1991; Ord. 91-40, § 2,
passed 8-6-1991)
§§ 11-3-609—11-3-699 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 6.1. FALSE ALARMS AND PAYMENT OF COSTS ****
§ 11-3-700 FALSE ALARM FEE.
   In addition to any other fines or penalties established by law, the County
Sheriff’s Department shall collect costs from any subscriber of or operator of
an alarm system which signals three or more false alarms within a calendar
year.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-700) (Ord. 2018-191, § 1, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 11-3-701 SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT TO COLLECT FEE.
   No person shall intentionally initiate a false alarm except for purposes of
testing an alarm system and then only after having given the Sheriff’s
Department prior written notice thereof. Any person who violates this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and also shall be required to pay to the city
costs in addition to any fines or penalties established by law. The Sheriff’s
Department is authorized to collect such costs on behalf of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-701) (Ord. 2018-191, § 1, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 11-3-702 ALARM SYSTEM DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any manual, mechanical or electrically operated circuits,
instruments and/or devices, which, when activated, emit a sound or transmit
alarms, a message and/or trouble signals which necessitate, solicit or requests
response from the Sheriff’s Department.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-702) (Ord. 2018-191, § 1, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 11-3-703 COSTS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COSTS. The costs incurred by the Sheriff’s Department in responding to the
false alarms, which shall be established by the City Council by adoption of a
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-703) (Ord. 2018-191, § 1, passed 2-20-2018)
§§ 11-3-704—11-3-799 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 7. FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY ZONE ****
§ 11-3-800 FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY ZONE MAP.
   The city designates the fire hazard severity zones as recommended by the
California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, pursuant to California
Government Code, § 51178, and as identified in Figure 11.1 below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c1cbf29d1b25efd900c0f94e1d811744fcbb8d7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4949.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, § 11-3-800) (Ord. 2019-202, § 2, passed 11-19-2019; Ord. 2025-235,
§ 4, passed 6-3-2025)
***** CHAPTER 4: DISORDERLY CONDUCT, PLACES AND PUBLICATIONS *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Intoxication
11-4-1   Intoxication in public place
11-4-2—11-4-12   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Reserved
11-4-13—11-4-20   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Prohibition on Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages in Public
11-4-21   Prohibition on consumption of alcoholic beverages in public
11-4-22—11-4-25   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Prohibition on Urination and Human Waste in Public
11-4-26   Prohibition on urination and human waste in public
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. INTOXICATION ****
§ 11-4-1 INTOXICATION IN PUBLIC PLACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear at any public place or at any
place open to public view or on any street, alley, highway, court, park,
railway depot, plaza or public square in a state of drunkenness or intoxication
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 11-4-2—11-4-12 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. RESERVED ****
§§ 11-4-13—11-4-20 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. PROHIBITION ON CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC
****
§ 11-4-21 PROHIBITION ON CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   No person shall drink any alcoholic beverage, intoxicating liquor or
any fermented malt beverage, unless specifically permitted by the prior written
approval of the city at any of the following places:
      (1)   On any street, roadway, boulevard, alley, public parking lot or
area, sidewalk, public right-of-way, public park or public property in the
city;
      (2)   Under any bridge, or on any vacant, unimproved or undeveloped land
in the city;
      (3)   In the public parking lot or area, loading and access areas of any
commercial area or shopping center in the city;
      (4)   On any grounds owned by or under the control of a public school
district within the city, or within a distance of 300 feet from any exterior
boundary of such grounds, except on private residential property or within a
properly licensed commercial establishment; and
      (5)   Within any public park, public place, regional park, recreation
facility or recreational area or facility owned and/or operated by the city,
county or any other public agency. This division (A)(5) shall not apply where
the possession is within premises located in a park or other public place for
which a license has been issued pursuant to Business and California Professions
Code, §§ 23000 et seq.
   (B)   A public parking lot or area shall include any municipal parking lot,
any publicly-owned parking lot or any private parking lot that is open to the
general public.
   (C)   Any person violating or failing to comply with this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to punishment as set forth in this code.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-21) (Ord. 2009-153, § 1, passed 4-7-2009)
§§ 11-4-22—11-4-25 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. PROHIBITION ON URINATION AND HUMAN WASTE IN PUBLIC ****
§ 11-4-26 PROHIBITION ON URINATION AND HUMAN WASTE IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate on private
property in any area exposed to the public view, or on any public street,
sidewalk, alley, park or other public place, except in a public or private
restroom.
   (B)   Any person violating or failing to comply with this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor and be subject to punishment as set forth in this code.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-26) (Ord. 2009-153, § 2, passed 4-7-2009)
***** CHAPTER 5: GAMBLING *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Cards, Dice and Similar Games
11-5-1   Prohibited games
11-5-2   Permitting illegal games
11-5-3   Participation in illegal games
11-5-4   Betting on illegal games
11-5-5—11-5-14   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Games of Chance
11-5-15   Prohibited games
11-5-16   Participation in illegal games
11-5-17   Permitting illegal games
Cross-reference:
Conduct of bingo games, see §
11-10-30
License for conducting bingo games, see §
5-3-271
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. CARDS, DICE AND SIMILAR GAMES ****
§ 11-5-1 PROHIBITED GAMES.
   (A)   Every person who, for profit or for anything of value or for
commercial purposes of any nature, keeps, operates, conducts or maintains,
either directly or indirectly, in the city, any house, room, apartment,
dwelling place or other place where any game, gambling or gaming not mentioned
or included in California Penal Code, §§ 330 or 330a is played, conducted,
dealt or carried on, whether with cards, dice or any other device of whatsoever
nature, for money, checks, credit, merchandise or other representative of
value, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Every person, either as owner, lessor, lessee, principal, agent,
employee or participant or otherwise, who maintains or keeps or operates or
conducts, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, or who directly or
indirectly is in possession, in whole or in part, of any house, room,
apartment, dwelling place or other place upon or in which any gambling, games
or gaming prohibited in this section is played, conducted, dealt or carried on,
and who imposes or collects a fee or anything of value for the privilege of
participating in any way whatsoever in any such games, gambling or gaming, or
who, directly or indirectly, gains or receives anything of value or any
financial profit from playing, conducting or dealing of any such games,
gambling or gaming, shall, for the purposes of this subchapter, be deemed to be
keeping, conducting, operating and maintaining the games, gambling or gaming
for profit or commercial purposes.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-5-2 PERMITTING ILLEGAL GAMES.
   Every person who knowingly permits any of the games, gambling or gaming,
which by §
11-5-1 is made unlawful to be played, maintained, operated, conducted or dealt,
in any house, room, apartment, dwelling place or other place owned or rented by
such person in whole or in part, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-2) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-5-3 PARTICIPATION IN ILLEGAL GAMES.
   Every person who visits, frequents, participates in or knowingly permits any
games, gambling or gaming, which by §
11-5-1 is made unlawful to be played, operated, maintained, conducted or dealt,
in any house, room, apartment, dwelling place or other place, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-3) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-5-4 BETTING ON ILLEGAL GAMES.
   Every person who shall place or bet at or against any of the games, gambling
or gaming, which, by §
11-5-1, is made unlawful, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-4) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 11-5-5—11-5-14 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. GAMES OF CHANCE ****
§ 11-5-15 PROHIBITED GAMES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful in the city for any person, either as owner,
lessee, manager, employee, agent or servant, to conduct, manage, carry on,
maintain, operate, open, deal or deal in, or to cause or permit to be
conducted, managed, carried on, maintained, operated, opened, dealt or dealt
in, any game, operation or transaction wherein any prize, gift, rebate,
compensation, reward, award, payment or gratuity consisting of any money,
check, token, credit, goods, wares, merchandise, property or thing of value is
or is to be given, awarded or delivered, either directly or indirectly, and
wherein chance is a determining factor or is any determining factor of the
result of such game, operation or transaction, which game, operation or
transaction is conducted, carried on, maintained, operated or played by the
throwing, tossing, dropping, depositing or placing of any ball, marker, object,
thing or substance into any perforation, hole or indentation, in or upon any
surface, receptacle, container, object or thing having marked, designated or
identified thereon by or with any figure, number, character, symbol, letter,
design or mark of any kind, or by the selecting, designating, turning,
indicating, choosing or projecting of any such figure, number, character,
symbol, letter, design or mark by means of any device, apparatus or equipment,
or by any means or in any manner or by the drawing, selecting, choosing or
removing from any receptacle or container of any ball, disk, object, substance
or material marked, designated or identified by or with any figure, number,
character, symbol, letter, design or mark, with any such figure, number,
character, symbol, letter, design or mark referred to in this section
corresponding to, duplicating, referring to or relating to, in whole or in
part, directly or indirectly, any figure, number, character, symbol, letter,
design or mark upon any card, paper, board, fabric, surface, object, substance
or thing held, used, operated or maintained by any player or participant
therein or by any person where, by any predetermined or prearranged rule, or by
any rule, method, scheme, design or procedure, any person is found, declared or
determined to be, or is or is to be, the winner, donee, recipient or taker of
such prize, gift, rebate, compensation, reward, award, payment or gratuity, if
any such player or participant pays, deposits, expends, gives or pledges,
either directly or indirectly, or agrees, promises or intends to pay, deposit,
expend, give or pledge, either directly or indirectly, any money, check,
credit, property or thing of value, or makes or agrees to make any purchase for
the privilege of playing or participating therein or of gaining admission to
the place or premises where such game, operation or transaction is or is to be
played, conducted, carried on, maintained or operated, or to any other place or
premises.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to any activity that is already
prohibited under California Penal Code, §§ 320 or 330, or any other provision
of state law. The intent of this subchapter is to regulate gambling-related
activities not expressly prohibited by state law.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-15) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-5-16 PARTICIPATION IN ILLEGAL GAMES.
   It shall be unlawful in the city for any person to participate in, play,
play in or engage in, either directly or indirectly, any game, operation or
transaction prohibited by the provisions of §
11-5-15.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-16) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-5-17 PERMITTING ILLEGAL GAMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, leasing, managing, controlling
or having any interest in any property or premises lying within the city to
cause or permit the maintenance or operation in or on such property or
premises, having knowledge of the existence of, or after reasonable notice of
the existence thereof, any game, operation or transaction declared by the
provisions of §
11-5-15 to be unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-17) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
***** CHAPTER 6: MINORS *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Curfew Regulations
11-6-1   Definitions for curfew provisions
11-6-2   Curfew restrictions
11-6-3   Enforcement of §
11-6-2(A)
11-6-4   Failure of parent or guardian to take minor to safe place during
curfew hours
11-6-5   , 11-6-6   Reserved
11-6-7   Penalty
Editor’s note:
Ord. 98-103, § 2, adopted 10-6-1998 repealed Subchapter 1, §§ 11-6-1 through
11-6-7, in its entirety and replaced it with a new Subchapter 1, §§ 11-6-
1 through 11-6-7. Former Subchapter 1 pertained to similar material and derived
from Ord. 90-11, § 3, adopted 3-6-1990.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. CURFEW REGULATIONS ****
§ 11-6-1 DEFINITIONS FOR CURFEW PROVISIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW HOURS. The period from 11:00 p.m. any evening of the week until 6:00
a.m. the following day.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN.
      (1)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      (2)   A public or private agency with which a minor has been placed by
court.
   MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age, who is not on active duty in the
armed forces of the United States nor otherwise emancipated pursuant to the
law.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent of
another person.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
   REMAIN. To:
      (1)   Linger, stay or be present; or
      (2)   Fail to leave the premises when requested to do so by a peace
officer, the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
   RESPONSIBLE ADULT. A person at least 18 years of age, authorized by a parent
or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-1) (Ord. 98-103, § 2, passed 10-6-1998)
§ 11-6-2 CURFEW RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any minor to remain in any public place or on the
premises of any establishment within the city during the curfew hours.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or responsible adult of a
minor knowingly to permit, or, by insufficient control, to allow, the minor to
remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the
city during curfew hours.
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
11-6-2(A) or (B) that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian, or by a responsible
adult;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian, or
a responsible adult without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a public entity, a civic
organization or another similar entity or organization that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a public entity, a civic organization or
another similar entity or organization that takes responsibility for the minor;
or
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution.
   (D)   Each violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-2) (Ord. 98-103, § 2, passed 10-6-1998)
§ 11-6-3 ENFORCEMENT OF § 11-6-2(A).
   (A)   Every law enforcement officer is hereby authorized and empowered to
demand from any person whom they have reasonable cause to believe is a minor
who is violating §
11-6-2(A) and does not come within §
11-6-2(C) that such person give their name and address, and the name of their
parent(s), guardian(s) or other responsible adult(s), if any, who has the care
and custody of such person, and furnish proof of their age and that they come
within the provisions of §
11-6-2(C).
   (B)   If, after demanding the information described in division (A) above,
the officer still has reasonable cause to believe the person is a minor who is
violating §
11-6-2(A) and does not come within §
11-6-2(C), the officer is hereby authorized and empowered to take any or more
than one of the following actions:
      (1)   To issue a warning to such person and their parent(s) or guardian
(s) about the consequences of violation of §
11-6-2;
      (2)   To take such person into custody and transport them to their
residence or to another place where they will be supervised by a responsible
adult;
      (3)   To communicate with the parent(s) or guardian(s) of such person and
demand from any of them the information described in division (A) above;
      (4)   To communicate with the parent(s) or guardian(s) of such person and
demand of any of them that they take the person to the person’s residence or to
any place where the person will be supervised by a responsible adult;
      (5)   To issue to such person a notice to appear before the juvenile
court, a juvenile court referee or a juvenile traffic hearing officer, as
appropriate;
      (6)   To take such person into temporary custody in accordance with the
California Welfare and Institutions Code, § 625, as limited by the California
Welfare and Institutions Code, § 207; and
      (7)   To take such other actions as are permitted by the laws of the
state and are deemed necessary by the officer to safeguard the well-being of
such person.
   (C)   A law enforcement officer shall not take any of the enforcement
actions described in division (B) above, unless the officer reasonably believes
that the person with respect to whom the action(s) is taken is violating §
11-6-2(A), and, based upon any responses and other circumstances, has no
defense under §
11-6-2(C).
(Prior Code, § 11-6-3) (Ord. 98-103, § 2, passed 10-6-1998)
§ 11-6-4 FAILURE OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN TO TAKE MINOR TO SAFE PLACE DURING
CURFEW HOURS.
   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to fail to take a minor to their
residence or to a place where they will be supervised by a responsible adult,
when so demanded by any law enforcement officer in accordance with §
11-6-3(B)(4).
(Prior Code, § 11-6-4) (Ord. 98-103, § 2, passed 10-6-1998)
§§ 11-6-5, 11-6-6 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 11-6-7 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of §§
11-6-2,
11-6-4 or 11-6-5 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Minors shall be dealt with
in accordance with juvenile court law and procedure.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-7) (Ord. 98-103, § 2, passed 10-6-1998)
***** CHAPTER 7: POLICE REGULATIONS AND PUBLIC PROTECTION *****
Section
Subchapter 1. General Provisions
11-7-1—11-7-13   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Tort Claims
11-7-14   Person defined
11-7-15   Reserved
11-7-16   Negotiations between joint tort claimants
11-7-17—11 -7-26   Reserved
Subchapter 3. False Reports
11-7-27   False reports or statements
11-7-28—11-7-30   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Multiple Responses to Loud or Disruptive, Parties, Gathering or
Events
11-7-31   Definitions
11-7-32   Issuance of warning for initial response
11-7-33   Multiple responses
11-7-34   Exemptions
11-7-35   Appeal
11-7-36   Reservation of legal options
Cross-reference:
Administration and personnel, see Title 2
Security systems and security officers, see §§ 5-3-15 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§§ 11-7-1—11-7-13 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. TORT CLAIMS ****
§ 11-7-14 PERSON DEFINED.
   The term PERSON as used in this subchapter, shall include any corporation,
association, society, club, copartnership or individual.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-14) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-7-15 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 11-7-16 NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN JOINT TORT CLAIMANTS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed to prevent joint
tort claimants from negotiating with each other for the purpose of combining
respective claims or actions against the tort feasor.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-16) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 11-7-17—11-7-26 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. FALSE REPORTS ****
§ 11-7-27 FALSE REPORTS OR STATEMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make to the Chief of
Police or any police officer or to the District Attorney or any of their
deputies any false, misleading or unfounded report for the purpose of inducing
or causing to be issued a complaint or indictment against any person.
   (B)   Whoever, in any manner, within the jurisdiction of any office or
department or agency of the city, knowingly falsifies, conceals, withholds or
suppresses, by any trick, scheme, verbal statement, writing or device, any
fact, or makes any false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or representation,
or makes or uses or causes to be made or used any false writing or document
when they know the writing or document to contain any false, fictitious or
fraudulent statement or entry, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-27) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Administration, see Title 2
§§ 11-7-28—11-7-30 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. MULTIPLE RESPONSES TO LOUD OR DISRUPTIVE, PARTIES, GATHERING
OR EVENTS ****
§ 11-7-31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOUD, DISRUPTIVE, RAUCOUS OR UNUSUAL CONDUCT OR ACTIVITY. Conduct arising
from parties, gatherings or other events, regardless of the nature of the
event, that includes, but is not limited to, excessive noise, excessive
traffic, obstruction of public streets and/or presence of unruly crowds, public
intoxication or other disturbances of the peace, vandalism, litter or any other
atypical conduct which constitutes a threat to public health, safety or quiet
enjoyment of residential property or the general welfare.
   PARTIES, GATHERINGS or EVENTS. A group of two or more persons who have
assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social activity,
regardless of the nature of the activity, at a residence or on other private
property or rented public property. Notwithstanding any other factor, actions
and activities protected by the First Amendment of the United States
Constitution shall not be subject to this subchapter.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE EVENT or RESPONSIBLE PERSON. Includes, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   The person who owns, rents, leases or otherwise has control of the
premises where the loud or disruptive party is gathering, or event occurs;
      (2)   The person in charge of the premises;
      (3)   The person who organized the event; and/or
      (4)   The person who supervised the event.
   POLICE SERVICES FEES. The actual costs incurred by the city based on, but
not limited to, the salaries of police officers while responding to or
remaining at the party, gathering or event, limited to the following mandatory
sums:
      (1)   First response and warning - no charge (no police services fee
shall be imposed unless the warning specified in this subchapter has first been
issued). The responding law enforcement personnel is expected to use
professional discretion as to the need to utilize this subchapter, whether
alone or together with other grounds for enforcement, regardless of the nature
of the offending event;
      (2)   First response after warning has been issued - $250.00;
      (3)   Second response after warning has been issued - $500.00;
      (4)   Third response and all additional after warning has been issued -
$750.00; and
      (5)   The police services fee is cumulative, so that, as an example, five
responses after the first warning shall result in a total of police services
fee of $3,000.00 ($250.00, plus $500.00, plus $750.00, plus $750.00, plus
$750.00).
   TIME OF APPLICABILITY. This subchapter shall only be utilized and residents
cited for violation hereof anytime day or night for a period of 36 hours after
the first response and warning. At all other times, other grounds for
enforcement shall be utilized.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-31) (Ord. 2017-188, § 2, passed 7-18-2017)
§ 11-7-32 ISSUANCE OF WARNING FOR INITIAL RESPONSE.
   Police initially responding to a loud or disruptive party, gathering or
event, regardless of the nature of the event, on private or public property,
may issue a written warning to the person(s) responsible for the loud party,
gathering, or event. Such warning shall contain the substance of the following
statement: “If the City of Laguna Niguel designated police are required to
respond again to this location due to a loud or disruptive party, gathering, or
event within a 36 hour period, then the person(s) responsible for such party,
gathering or event shall be assessed a police services fee in accordance with
Title 11, Chapter 7, Subchapter 4. The city may prepare forms to be utilized to
give this notice or the notice may be given verbally if circumstances warrant
due to the lack of a certain and specific property, or both, at the discretion
of the police.”
(Prior Code, § 11-7-32) (Ord. 2017-188, § 2, passed 7-18-2017)
§ 11-7-33 MULTIPLE RESPONSES.
   (A)   If police are required to respond to a call for service regarding a
loud or disruptive party, gathering or event, regardless of the nature of the
event, at a particular location for a second or subsequent time within a 36-
hour period after a warning has been issued, then for each such response, a
police services fee shall be assessed against the person(s) responsible for the
loud or disruptive party, gathering or event. Each person responsible for said
party, gathering or event shall be jointly and severally liable for the police
services fee; provided, however, that if any such person is a minor, then the
parents or legal guardians of such minors shall be jointly and severally liable
in the minor’s place.
   (B)   An itemized bill shall be sent to every person assessed a police
services fee. In its discretion, the city may delegate preparation of the
itemized bill to a public entity designee.
   (C)   A police services fee imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall be
paid in full within 15 days of the billing date, unless a written appeal is
filed in accordance with §
11-7-35. The city may, pursuant to law, impose a lien on the property,
including real property, to recover the monies due.
   (D)   No police services fee shall be assessed in a circumstance when law
enforcement, upon its second or additional arrival at a property, does not
observe or otherwise detect loud, disruptive, raucous or unusual conduct or
activity.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-33) (Ord. 2017-188, § 2, passed 7-18-2017)
§ 11-7-34 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following acts or conditions are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter:
   (A)   Activities conducted on the grounds of any public or private
children’s nursery, elementary, intermediate or secondary school or college;
   (B)   Outdoor gatherings, public dances and shows; provided said events are
conducted pursuant to a permit or license issued by the city;
   (C)   Any mechanical device, apparatus or equipment used, related to or
connected with emergency machinery, vehicles or work; and
   (D)   Any activity to the extent regulation thereof has been preempted by
state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-34) (Ord. 2017-188, § 2, passed 7-18-2017)
§ 11-7-35 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person assessed a police services fee may, by filing a written
request within 15 days of the billing date, appeal the amount of such fee to
the City Manager, or designee.
   (B)   The City Manager, or designee, shall conduct a hearing on timely-filed
appeals, and may affirm or reduce the amount of the fee. The hearing shall be
conducted pursuant to the greatest respect for due process of the parties and
in accord with the nuisance appeals procedures in the municipal code.
   (C)   No reduction shall be granted, unless the appellant establishes
either:
      (1)   An accounting error has been committed;
      (2)   There are mitigating circumstances warranting leniency; or
      (3)   There is no evidence that loud, disruptive, raucous or unusual
conduct or activity occurred.
   (D)   (1)   The decision of the City Manager, or designee, shall be in
writing and shall be final.
      (2)   The full amount of any police services fee assessment upheld by the
City Manager, or designee, shall be paid within 15 days of the final decision.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-35) (Ord. 2017-188, § 2, passed 7-18-2017)
§ 11-7-36 RESERVATION OF LEGAL OPTIONS.
   (A)   The procedures provided for in this subchapter are in addition to any
other statute, ordinance or law, whether civil or criminal, available to the
city. This subchapter in no way limits the authority of law enforcement
officers or private citizens to make arrests for any other criminal offense
arising out of conduct regulated by this subchapter.
   (B)   The city does not waive its right to seek reimbursement for actual
costs, beyond the police services fee, through other legal remedies or
procedures. Any person owing money shall be liable in an action brought in the
name of the city for recovery of such amount, including reasonable attorney’s
fees, and the city may impose a lien to recover the monies due.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-36) (Ord. 2017-188, § 2, passed 7-18-2017)
***** CHAPTER 8: PROPERTY PROTECTION *****
Section
Subchapter 1. City Property
11-8-1   Damaging or defacing city property
11-8-2   Authority to post signs
11-8-3   City defined
11-8-4—11-8-12   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Buildings and Equipment
11-8-13   Use of public playground equipment
11-8-14—11-8-23   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Land
11-8-24   Trespass upon fenced or cultivated land
11-8-25   Damaging property or vegetation
11-8-26—11-8-35   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Plants
11-8-36   Damaging Yucca plants
11-8-37—11-8-46   Reserved
Subchapter 5. Vehicular Nuisances
11-8-47   Operation of vehicle on land of another
11-8-48   Creating disturbance by vehicle
11-8-49, 11-8-50   Reserved
Subchapter 6. Graffiti Prohibited
11-8-51   Purpose and intent
11-8-52   Findings
11-8-53   Definitions
11-8-54   Anti-vandalism provisions
11-8-55   Accessibility to graffiti implements
11-8-56   Removal provisions
11-8-57   Rewards
11-8-58   Parental involvement provisions
11-8-59   Punishment provisions
Subchapter 7. Tree Protections
11-8-60   Purpose
11-8-61   Definitions
11-8-62   Authority and power
11-8-63   Tree planting and care standards
11-8-64   Prohibition against harming public trees
Cross-reference:
Alteration or obstruction of drainage works or ditches, see §
7-5-1
Damaging vegetation or structures in recreational areas, see §
13-1-27
Highways, rights-of-way and vehicles, see Title 7
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. CITY PROPERTY ****
§ 11-8-1 DAMAGING OR DEFACING CITY PROPERTY.
   No person shall paint, post, attach or affix any handbill, dodger, notice,
sign or advertisement upon or to any bridge, fence, building or other property
belonging to the city or any tree situated in any public street or highway of
the city, and no person shall deface, mar or disfigure any bridge, fence,
building or other structure belonging to the city or any tree situated in any
public street or highway of the city by painting, cutting, scratching or
breaking such structure or tree or attaching or affixing anything thereto.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-8-2 AUTHORITY TO POST SIGNS.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit the
erection or placing in any street or highway of mileposts, mile boards, guide
boards or guideposts, or the painting, posting, attaching or affixing of
warning signs, notices or signboards, upon bridges, fences, buildings or other
structures belonging to the city, under authority of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-2) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-8-3 CITY DEFINED.
   For purposes of this chapter, the word CITY means the City of Laguna Niguel.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-3)
§§ 11-8-4—11-8-12 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT ****
§ 11-8-13 USE OF PUBLIC PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Use by adults prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person of the
age of 18 years or over to enter upon or use any public playground equipment
within the city unless the individual is:
      (1)   Accompanying a minor child or minor children lawfully under their
custody or control. This includes parents, guardians, babysitters, caretakers
or other designees of a parent or guardian with sole or joint supervisory
responsibility over the minor child or minor children; or
      (2)   A city employee or contractor performing official duties related to
the maintenance, inspection or other official business concerning the public
playground equipment.
   (B)   Definition. For purposes of this section, public playground equipment
is hereby defined as follows:
      (1)   Rock-a-bye swings;
      (2)   Stationary circular travel rings;
      (3)   Giant strides;
      (4)   Ocean waves;
      (5)   Settee swings;
      (6)   Horizontal ladders;
      (7)   Graduated horizontal bars;
      (8)   Board teeter outfits;
      (9)   Kindergarten chair swings;
      (10)   Combination straight travel rings;
      (11)   Trapeze rings;
      (12)   Merry-go-rounds; and
      (13)   Slides.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-13) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Parks and recreational facilities, see Title 13
§§ 11-8-14—11-8-23 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. LAND ****
§ 11-8-24 TRESPASS UPON FENCED OR CULTIVATED LAND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon or go upon the lands of
another, under cultivation or enclosed by a fence, for any purpose whatsoever,
without the consent in writing of the owner of the premises or of the person
entitled to the use and occupancy thereof, except in the lawful performance of
an official duty.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-24) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-8-25 DAMAGING PROPERTY OR VEGETATION.
   It shall be and is hereby declared unlawful for any person, other than the
owner or lessee of the land designated in this section, to cut, hack, injure,
destroy, move or remove any cane, reeds, sticks, grass, bamboo, trees, lumber,
brush, weeds or vegetation of any kind or nature, or printed, painted or
written signs, or to dig, move or remove any sand, gravel, rocks, dirt, soil,
debris or other material or substance, or to start, build or maintain fires of
any nature whatsoever, in or on creeks, canals, channels or rivers, or the
banks, beds, levees, dikes or embankments of such creeks, canals, channels or
rivers, or other lands of another located in the city, without the written
consent of the owner or lessee of such creeks, canals, channels or rivers, or
the banks, beds, levees, dikes or embankments of such creeks, canals, channels
or rivers or other land, or except in the lawful performance of an official
duty.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-25) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 11-8-26—11-8-35 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. PLANTS ****
§ 11-8-36 DAMAGING YUCCA PLANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mutilate or destroy any Yucca plant
or pick out any blooms or blossoms therefrom, whether such plants are growing
on public or private land, unless, in the case of private land, the owner gives
their consent thereto.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-36) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 11-8-37—11-8-46 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 5. VEHICULAR NUISANCES ****
§ 11-8-47 OPERATION OF VEHICLE ON LAND OF ANOTHER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motorcycle, motor-driven
cycle, minibike, trail bike, motor scooter, jeep, dune buggy or other motor
vehicle on real property owned or occupied by another without the written
consent of all the owners and occupiers being in such operator’s possession,
unless the owners of the property have posted the property permitting such use;
provided, however, that this prohibition does not include the operation of a
vehicle or cycle having a valid state vehicle registration by any person
possessing a valid state operator’s license upon a public street or highway;
and provided, further, that this prohibition shall not apply to a public
officer or employee acting within the course and scope of their employment; and
provided, further, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to the
operation of such vehicles on driveways, parking lots, racecourses or other
places where the public is invited to operate such vehicle, so long as such
vehicle is operated in the reasonable and ordinary manner customary for such
use.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-47) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Highways, rights-of-way and vehicles, see Title 7
   Traffic regulations, see §§
7-4-100 et seq.
§ 11-8-48 CREATING DISTURBANCE BY VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle referred to in §
11-8-47 in such a manner as is reasonably likely to disturb the peace or quiet
of any neighborhood or person by reason of noise, dust, smoke or fumes.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-48) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Motor vehicle racing, §
6-6-8.1
   Noise, see §§
6-6-1 et seq.
§§ 11-8-49, 11-8-50 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 6. GRAFFITI PROHIBITED ****
§ 11-8-51 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of the City Council, through the adoption of
this subchapter, to provide additional enforcement tools to protect public and
private property from acts of vandalism and defacement; especially, but not
limited to, graffiti on privately and publicly-owned walls, which are inimical
and destructive of the rights and values of private property owners as well as
the total community. It is further the intent of the City Council, through the
adoption of this subchapter, to put on notice all of those who callously
disregard the property rights of others, that the law enforcement agencies for
the city, both police services and the prosecutor’s office, will strictly
enforce the law and severely prosecute those persons engaging in the defacement
of public and private properties.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-51) (Ord. 94-70, § 1, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 11-8-52 FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds as follows.
   (A)   The increase of graffiti, on either public or private property,
results in blight, decreases property values and deprives surrounding residents
and owners of the right to comfortable enjoyment of life and property.
   (B)   Graffiti is obnoxious, constitutes a public nuisance and is a threat
to public safety which must be abated to prevent its further proliferation.
   (C)   Graffiti must be removed as quickly as possible to minimize harm to
persons and property in the community.
   (D)   This subchapter is consistent with California Government Code, §
53069.3, which authorizes the enactment of ordinances to provide for the use of
city funds to remove graffiti.
   (E)   This subchapter is intended to be complementary to and not in conflict
with California Penal Code, § 594, which provides that any person who
maliciously defaces property is guilty of vandalism, and California Penal Code,
§ 594.1, which provides that certain activities involving the possession, sale
and use of aerosol paint containers are misdemeanors.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-52) (Ord. 94-70, § 1, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 11-8-53 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER. Any aerosol container, regardless of the material
from which it is made, which is adapted or made for the purpose of spraying
paint or other substance capable of defacing property.
   FELT TIP MARKER. Any indelible marker or similar implement with a tip which,
at its broadest width, is greater than one-eighth inch, containing an ink that
is not water-soluble.
   GRAFFITI. Any inscription, word, figure or design that is marked, etched,
scratched, drawn, painted, pasted or otherwise affixed to or on any surface,
regardless of the nature of the material of that structural component, to the
extent that same was not authorized in advance by the owner thereof, or,
despite advance authorization, is otherwise deemed by the City Council to be a
public nuisance.
   GRAFFITI or PAINT STICK. A device containing a solid form of paint, chalk,
wax, epoxy or other similar substance capable of being applied to a surface by
pressure, and upon application, leaving a mark at least one-eighth of an inch
in width, visible from a distance of 20 feet, and not water-soluble.
   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT. An aerosol paint container, an etching tool, a felt tip
marker, a graffiti or paint stick or a gum label.
   GUM LABEL. Any sheet of paper, fabric, plastic or other substance with an
adhesive backing which is not easily removable when placed on a surface.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-53) (Ord. 94-70, § 1, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 11-8-54 ANTI-VANDALISM PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Unlawful to apply graffiti. It shall be unlawful for any person to
apply graffiti on any public- or privately-owned structures located on public
or privately owned real property within the city.
   (B)   Possession of graffiti implement prohibited. It shall be unlawful for
any person, while on public property, or upon private property without the
prior consent of the owner of such property, to possess any graffiti implement
for the purpose of defacing property.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-54) (Ord. 94-70, § 1, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 11-8-55 ACCESSIBILITY TO GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS.
   (A)   Furnishing to minors prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person,
other than a parent or legal guardian, to sell, exchange, give, loan or
otherwise furnish, or cause or permit to be exchanged, given, loaned or
otherwise furnished, any graffiti implement to any person under the age of 18
years without the consent of the parent or other lawfully designated custodian
of the person, which custodial consent shall be given in advance in writing.
   (B)   Wrongful display for sale.
      (1)   No person, firm or entity engaged in a commercial enterprise
(seller) shall display for sale, trade or exchange any graffiti implement,
except in an area from which the public shall be securely precluded without
employee assistance.
      (2)   Two such acceptable methods for displaying a graffiti implement for
sale shall be by containment in:
         (a)   A completely enclosed cabinet or other storage device which
shall be permanently affixed to a building or building structure, and which
shall at all times, except during access by authorized representatives, remain
securely locked; or
         (b)   In an enclosed area behind a sale or service counter from which
the public is precluded from entry.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-55) (Ord. 94-70, § 1, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 11-8-56 REMOVAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Removal by person who applied graffiti. Any person who applies
graffiti within the city shall have the duty to remove the same within 24 hours
after notice by the city or the public or private owner of the property
involved. The failure of any person to so remove said graffiti shall constitute
an additional violation of this subchapter. Where graffiti is applied by anyone
under the age of 18 years, the parent, parents or legal guardian shall be
responsible for such removal or for the payment therefor.
   (B)   Removal by property owner. It is unlawful for any person who is the
owner or who has primary responsibility for control of property or who has
primary responsibility for the repair or maintenance of property (responsible
party) to permit property which is defaced with graffiti to remain so defaced
for a period of three working days after notice of same, unless:
      (1)   Said person shall demonstrate to the City Manager, or their
designee, by a preponderance of evidence, that they do not have the financial
or physical ability to remove the defacing graffiti; or
      (2)   Unless it can be demonstrated that the responsible party has an
active program for the removal of graffiti and has scheduled the removal of the
graffiti as part of that program, in which case it shall be unlawful to permit
such property defaced with graffiti to remain defaced for a period of five days
after notice of the same.
   (C)   Removal by city.
      (1)   Use of public funds. Whenever the city becomes aware, or is
notified and determines that graffiti is so located on publicly- or privately-
owned property viewable from a public or quasi-public place within the city,
the city shall be authorized to use public funds for the removal of the same,
or for the painting or repairing of the same, but shall not authorize or
undertake to provide for the painting or repair of any more extensive area than
that where the graffiti is located, unless the City Manager, or their designee,
determines in writing that a more extensive area is required to be repainted or
repaired in order to avoid an aesthetic disfigurement to the neighborhood or
community, or unless the responsible party agrees to pay for the costs of
repainting or repairing the more extensive area.
      (2)   Securing owner consent. Prior to entering upon private property or
property owned by a public entity other than the city, for the purpose of
removal of graffiti, the city shall attempt to secure the consent of the
responsible party, and a release of the city from liability for private or
public property or liability damage.
   (D)   Nuisance abatement, lien and cost of recovery.
      (1)   Graffiti as a nuisance. The existence of graffiti within the city
limits is a public and private nuisance, and may be abated according to the
provisions and procedures herein contained.
      (2)   Failure to obtain owner consent. If a responsible party fails to
remove the offending graffiti within the time herein specified, or if the city
shall have requested consent to remove or paint over the offending graffiti and
the responsible party shall have refused consent for entry on terms acceptable
to the city consistent with the terms of this section, the city shall commence
abatement and cost recovery proceedings for the removal of the graffiti
according to the following procedure.
      (3)   Abatement and cost recovery proceedings.
         (a)   Notice and conduct of due process hearing. The City Manager, or
their designee (hearing officer), shall give not less than 48 hours’ notice,
served in the same manner as summons in a civil action in accordance with
California Code of Civil Procedure, Article 3 (commencing with § 415.10) of
Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part 2 to the responsible party or parties who are
responsible for the maintenance of a parcel of property containing graffiti
(property), and, if a different person is the owner of record of the parcel of
land or which the nuisance is maintained, based on the last equalized
assessment roll or the supplemental roll, whichever is more current, then to
said owner (owner) also, of a “due process” hearing at which said responsible
party and owner shall be entitled to present evidence and argue that their
property does not contain graffiti. (If the owner of record after diligent
search cannot be found, the notice may be served by posting a copy thereof in a
conspicuous place upon the property for a period of ten days and publication
thereof in a newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which
the property is located pursuant to § 6062.) The determination of the hearing
officer after the “due process” hearing shall be final and not appealable. If,
after the due process hearing, regardless of the attendance of the responsible
party, owner or their respective agents, the hearing officer determines that
the property contains graffiti viewable from a public or quasi-public place,
the hearing officer shall give written notice (eradication order) that, unless
the graffiti is removed within five days thereafter, the city shall enter upon
the property, cause the removal, painting over (in such color as shall meet
with the approval of the hearing officer) or such other eradication thereof
(eradication effort) as the hearing officer determines appropriate, and shall
provide the responsible party and owner thereafter with an accounting of the
costs of such eradication effort on a “full cost recovery basis”.
         (b)   Eradication effort. Not sooner than the time specified in the
order of the hearing officer, the City Manager or their designee shall
implement the eradication order, and shall provide an accounting to the
responsible party, and as appropriate, the owner, of the costs thereof
(eradication accounting).
         (c)   Cost hearing. If the responsible party or owner fails to request
a hearing before the hearing officer on the eradication accounting (cost
hearing), or if requested, and a cost hearing is conducted after extending due
process to the responsible party and, as appropriate, the owner, after such a
cost hearing, the hearing officer determines that all or a portion of the costs
are appropriately chargeable to the eradication effort, the total amount set
forth in the eradication accounting, or such amount thereof determined as
appropriate by the hearing officer (assessed eradication charges), shall be due
and payable by the responsible party within 30 days. Any amount of assessed
eradication charges assessed by the hearing officer which are less than the
total amount set forth in the eradication accounting shall be explained by
written letter from the hearing officer to the City Council members.
         (d)   Lien. As to such property where the responsible party is the
owner, if all or any portion of the assessed eradication charges remain unpaid
after 30 days, pursuant to the authority created by law, including California
Government Code, §§ 38773 et seq., such portion thereof as shall remain unpaid
shall constitute and is hereby declared to constitute a lien on the property
which was the subject matter of the eradication effort. The Director of Public
Works shall present a resolution of lien to the City Council, and upon passage
and adoption thereof, shall cause a certified copy thereof to be recorded with
the County Recorder’s office.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-56) (Ord. 94-70, § 1, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 11-8-57 REWARDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the California Government Code, § 53069.5, the city does
hereby offer a reward of up to $500.00 for information leading to the arrest
and conviction of any person for violation of California Penal Code, § 594 by
the use of graffiti, not to exceed $500.00 per incident of graffiti. In the
event of multiple contributors of information, the reward amount shall be
divided by the city in the manner it shall deem appropriate. The City Council
shall determine the exact amount of each reward. For the purposes of this
section, diversion of the offending violator to a community service program, or
a plea bargain to a lesser offense, shall constitute a conviction.
   (B)   (1)   Claims for rewards under this section shall be filed with the
city.
      (2)   Each claim shall:
         (a)   Specifically identify the date, location and kind or property
damaged or destroyed;
         (b)   Identify by name the person who was convicted, or confessed to
the damage or destruction of the city property; and
         (c)   Identify the court and the date upon which the conviction
occurred or the place and the date of the confession.
   (C)   No claim for a reward shall be allowed by the City Council, unless an
authorized representative of the city investigates and verifies the accuracy of
the claim and recommends that it be allowed.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-57) (Ord. 94-70, § 1, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 11-8-58 PARENTAL INVOLVEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Parental civil liability (cost). Any parent or other legal guardian
who consents to, permits or otherwise knowingly allows their child under the
age of 18 to possess a graffiti implement shall be personally liable for any
and all costs to any person incurred in connection with the removal of graffiti
caused by said child, or by said graffiti implement, and for all attorney’s
fees and court costs incurred in connection with the civil prosecution of any
claim for damages.
   (B)   Parental liability (removal). Where graffiti is applied by anyone
under the age of 18 years, the parent, parents or legal guardian shall be
responsible for such removal or for the payment therefor.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-58) (Ord. 94-70, § 1, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 11-8-59 PUNISHMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Penalties for violation. Any and all violations of this subchapter
shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Police diversion program; community service with minimum hours and
parental involvement. In lieu of, or as part of, requesting prosecution of a
petition to declare a minor to be a ward of the court under California Welfare
and Institutions Code, § 602 (including, but not limited to, offenses which, in
the opinion of the Police Chief, constitute a violation of this subchapter), or
in lieu of prosecuting a violation of this subchapter as a crime against an
adult, the Police Chief, with the approval of (or according to rules and
procedures approved by) the City Manager, shall be authorized to offer said
minor or adult an option to perform such community service as the Police Chief
deems appropriate, but which community service shall, if offered at all,
contain the following minimum elements.
      (1)   The minor shall perform at least 30 hours of community service.
      (2)   At least one of the custodial parents, or if none, guardians, shall
be in attendance at least 50% of the period of assigned community service, or
an appropriate period as determined by the court.
      (3)   The entire period of community service shall be performed under the
supervision of a community service provider approved by the Chief of Police.
      (4)   Reasonable effort shall be made to assign the subject minor or
adult to a type of community service that is reasonably expected to have the
most rehabilitative effect on the minor or adult. To the extent that the
offense giving rise to the offer of community service constitutes a violation
of this subchapter, reasonable effort shall be made by the Chief of Police to
assign the minor to community service which constitutes in significant part the
removal of graffiti.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-59) (Ord. 94-70, § 1, passed 2-15-1994)
**** SUBCHAPTER 7. TREE PROTECTIONS ****
§ 11-8-60 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to enhance the quality of life and the
present and future health, safety and welfare of all citizens; to enhance
property values; and to ensure proper planting and care of trees on public
property, the City Council herein delegates authority and responsibility for
managing public trees to the Public Works Director, establishes practices
governing the planting and care of trees on public property.
(Ord. 2024-230, § 2, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 11-8-61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DAMAGE. Any injury to or destruction of a tree, including, but not limited
to: uprooting; severance of all or part the root system or main trunk; storage
of material on or compaction of surrounding soil; a substantial change in the
natural grade above a root system or around a trunk; surrounding the tree with
impervious paving materials; or any trauma caused by accident or collision.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works or their designee.
   NUISANCE. Any tree, or limb thereof, that has an infectious disease or
insect; is dead or dying; obstructs the view of traffic signs or the free
passage of pedestrians or vehicles; or threatens public health, safety and
welfare.
   PARKWAY. The area along a public street between the curb and the sidewalk;
or if there is no curb or sidewalk, the unpaved portion of the area between the
street right-of-way line and the paved portion of the street or alley.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. All grounds and rights-of-way (ROWs) owned or maintained by
the city.
   PUBLIC TREE. Any tree or woody vegetation on city-owned or city-maintained
property or rights-of-way.
   TOP or TOPPING. The non-standard practice of cutting back of limbs to stubs
within a tree’s crown to such a degree to remove the normal canopy and
disfigure the tree.
(Ord. 2024-230, § 2, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 11-8-62 AUTHORITY AND POWER.
   (A)   Delegation of authority and responsibility. The Director shall have
full authority and responsibility to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees
and woody plants growing in or upon all municipal streets, rights-of-way, city
parks and other public property. This shall include the removal of trees that
may threaten electrical, telephone, gas or any municipal water or sewer line,
or any tree that is affected by fungus, insect or other pest disease.
   (B)   Coordination among city departments. All city departments will
coordinate as necessary with the Director and will provide services as required
to ensure compliance with this subchapter as it relates to streets, alleys,
rights-of-way, drainage, easements and other public properties.
   (C)   Interference. No person shall hinder, prevent, delay or interfere with
the Director or their agent(s) while engaged in carrying out the execution or
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2024-230, § 2, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 11-8-63 TREE PLANTING AND CARE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards. All planting and maintenance of public trees shall conform
to the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) A-300 “Standards for Tree
Care Operations” and shall follow all tree care Best Management Practices
(BMPs) published by the International Society of Arboriculture.
   (B)   Requirements of franchise utility companies. The maintenance of public
trees for utility clearance shall conform to all applicable utility industry
standards.
   (C)   Preferred species list. The Director shall approve all tree planting
on public property in two size classes: ornamental (20 feet or less in height
at maturity) and shade (greater than 20 feet at maturity).
   (D)   Planting distances. The Director shall approve spacing requirements
for the planting of trees on public property. No tree may be planted within the
visibility triangle of a street intersection or within ten feet of a fire
hydrant. Planting trees under electric utility lines. Only trees approved as
ornamental trees by the Director may be planted under or within 15 lateral feet
of any overhead utility wire.
   (E)   Protection of public trees during construction. Any person, firm,
corporation or city department performing construction near any public tree
must employ appropriate measures to protect the tree, including, but not
limited to, placing barriers around the tree to prevent damage.
(Ord. 2024-230, § 2, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 11-8-64 PROHIBITION AGAINST HARMING PUBLIC TREES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to damage,
remove or cause the damage or removal of a tree on public property without
written permission from the Director.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to attach any
cable, wire or signs or any other object to any street, park or public tree.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to “top” any
public tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, where best
pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted from this provision at the
determination of the Director.
(Ord. 2024-230, § 2, passed 10-15-2024)
***** CHAPTER 9: PUBLIC SAFETY *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Reserved
11-9-1—11-9-11   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Reserved
11-9-12—11-9-22   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Reserved
11-9-23—11-9-33   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Wells
11-9-34   Capping or covering required
Subchapter 5. Rivers, Creeks, Channels, Canals, Pipes and Ditches
11-9-35   Water-related activities prohibited in designated channels
11-9-36—11-9-43   Reserved
Subchapter 6. Diving or Jumping in Water
11-9-44   Generally
11-9-45   Landing in water
Cross-reference:
Ambulance service, see §§
6-9-1 et seq.
Hazardous material disclosure, see §§
6-3-200 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. RESERVED ****
§§ 11-9-1—11-9-11 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. RESERVED ****
§§ 11-9-12—11-9-22 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations, see Title 8
   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, see §
8-3-25
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2008-151, § 12, adopted 2-19-2008, repealed Subchapter 3, § 11-9-23, in
its entirety, which pertained to swimming pools, and derived from Ord. 90-11, §
3, adopted 3-6-1990; Ord. 94-78, § 2, adopted 11-1-1994; and Ord. 95-81, § 2,
adopted 2-21-1995.
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. RESERVED ****
§§ 11-9-23—11-9-33 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. WELLS ****
§ 11-9-34 CAPPING OR COVERING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED OIL or WATER WELL. Includes any such well not actually and
continuously used, and any well, whether being used or not, the mouth or
entrance of which is left open.
      CISTERN. An artificial reservoir or tank or wells for storing water.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, copartnership, joint venture, association,
social club, fraternal organization, corporation, estate, trust, business
trust, receiver, syndicate, city or any other group or combination acting as a
unit.
   (B)   Responsibility for capping or covering.
      (1)   A person who digs, drills, excavates, constructs, owns or controls
any water well, oil well or cistern and abandons such well or cistern, and a
person who owns, possesses or controls any premises on which an abandoned water
well, oil well or cistern exists, shall cap or otherwise securely cover the
mouth or entrance to the well or cistern.
      (2)   The capping or covering shall be so constructed and installed as
will prevent any human being from falling into the well or cistern or from
suffering any bodily injury, through accident or inadvertence, by reason of the
existence of the well or cistern.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-34) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Construction and abandonment of water wells, see §§
6-5-14 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 5. RIVERS, CREEKS, CHANNELS, CANALS, PIPES AND DITCHES ****
§ 11-9-35 WATER-RELATED ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED IN DESIGNATED CHANNELS.
   (A)   Except for public officers in the performance of their duties and
those persons authorized by the City Council, it shall be unlawful for any
person to wade, bathe, skin dive, swim, float, launch or occupy any
paddleboard, surfboard, kayak, canoe, boat, tube or similar craft, or any
object or device capable of transporting a person, on or in any creek, channel,
canal, river, ditch, pipe or aqueduct within the jurisdiction and control of
the County Flood Control District.
   (B)   Such creeks, channels, canals, rivers, ditches, pipes and aqueducts
include, but are not limited to, the following:
Channel Flood Control District Code Number
Channel                 Flood Control District Code Number
Aliso Creek Channel     J01
Escolar Storm Drain     L03P37
Galivan Retarding Basin L03B02
Narco Channel           J04
Oso Creek Channel       L03
Salt Creek Channel      K01
Sulphur Creek Channel   J03
Sulphur Creek Dam       J03D01
 
(Prior Code, § 11-9-35) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 11-9-36—11-9-43 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 6. DIVING OR JUMPING IN WATER ****
§ 11-9-44 GENERALLY.
   No person shall dive or jump into any lake, stream, brook, creek, river,
pond, lagoon, reservoir, harbor, bay, cove, inlet, channel or canal from any
pier, bridge, rock or precipice, other than at a privately-owned and operated
swimming area or at those places designated and posted for diving and jumping
by the Director of Parks and Recreation as authorized by resolution of the City
Council. Violation of this section shall be an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-44) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Diving or jumping in water, see §§
13-1-49 and
13-1-49.1
   Parks, beaches and recreational areas, see §§
13-1-1 et seq.
§ 11-9-45 LANDING IN WATER.
   No person shall land in any lake, stream, brook, creek, river, pond, lagoon,
reservoir, harbor, bay, cove, inlet, channel or canal, after having jumped or
dived from any pier, bridge, rock or precipice above such body of water, other
than at a privately-owned and operated swimming area or at those places
designated and posted for diving and jumping by the Director of Parks and
Recreation as authorized by resolution of the City Council. Violation of this
section shall be an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-45) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
***** CHAPTER 10: CHARITABLE OR PHILANTHROPIC SOLICITATION *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Solicitation Generally
11-10-1   Solicitation to unwilling recipient
11-10-2, 11-10-3   Reserved
11-10-4   Authorization to use name of association
11-10-5—11-10-23   Reserved
11-10-24   Correct name of solicitor and association to be used
11-10-25—11-10-29   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Bingo Games
11-10-30   Permitted games; conduct of games
11-10-31   Bingo license procedures
Cross-reference:
Peddlers, business solicitors and canvassers, see §
5-3-128
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. SOLICITATION GENERALLY ****
§ 11-10-1 SOLICITATION TO UNWILLING RECIPIENT.
   (A)   No person shall enter upon any residence or place of business and ring
the doorbell, rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound in any other
manner calculated to attract the attention of any occupant of such premises,
for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant and engaging in
solicitation in defiance of a notice described in division (B) below.
   (B)   Notice by the owners or occupants of any residence or place of
business of their unwillingness to receive any solicitors shall be given by
displaying a weatherproof card, decal or sign easily seen from the public
right-of-way or the normal entryway to a house or dwelling. The notice must be
placed upon or near the main entrance door to the residence or place of
business and must conspicuously state: “No Solicitors” or words to that effect.
§§ 11-10-2, 11-10-3 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 11-10-4 AUTHORIZATION TO USE NAME OF ASSOCIATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use within the city the name of
any association in charge or control of any charity, philanthropy or
benevolent, social service or patriotic activity in any solicitation without
having written permission from two of the officers of such association to so
use its name or the name of or reference to such charity, philanthropy or
benevolent, social service or patriotic activity, which written permission must
be for a specific event or a specified period of time.
   (B)   A copy of such permission must be filed with the Department prior to
any such use.
(Prior Code, § 11-10-4) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 11-10-5—11-10-23 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 11-10-24 CORRECT NAME OF SOLICITOR AND ASSOCIATION TO BE USED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or association, in making any
solicitation for any charitable purposes or association within the city, or in
connection with any such solicitation, to use or to give any person or
association whomsoever either a fictitious name or any alias or any other than
their or its own, full true and correct name, or to make any such solicitation
without at the time giving to the person or association solicited for such
contribution the full, true and correct name of the person or association
soliciting, or to impersonate any other person or association in making such
solicitation.
(Prior Code, § 11-10-24) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 11-10-25—11-10-29 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. BINGO GAMES ****
§ 11-10-30 PERMITTED GAMES; CONDUCT OF GAMES.
   (A)   Bingo games are hereby permitted in the city; provided such games are
conducted only by organizations exempted from the payment of the bank and
corporation tax by California Revenue and Taxation Code, §§ 23701a, 23701b,
23701d, 23701e, 23701f, 23701g and 237011, and by mobile home park associations
and senior citizens organizations, and provided that the proceeds of such games
are used only for charitable purposes, and provided a license is obtained
therefor pursuant to Title 5, Chapter 3, Subchapter 18. Bingo games conducted
pursuant to this section must be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
California Penal Code, § 326.5 and as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   Only those bingo games which have all of the characteristics of
ordinary bingo or pull tab bingo set forth in this section are permitted. Pull
tab bingo is permitted only in conjunction with ordinary bingo games. No cards
or prizes for pull tab bingo shall be distributed at any time other than during
an ordinary bingo game. No bingo game featuring pull tab bingo exclusively is
permitted.
   (C)   The total prize money awarded in any ordinary bingo game or pull tab
bingo game shall not exceed $500.00 in cash or kind, or both, for each separate
game which is held. However, a maximum of $500.00 in cash or kind, or both, for
each pull tab bingo game may be awarded separately, and in addition to the
maximum of $500.00 awarded for each ordinary bingo game during which a pull tab
bingo game is conducted.
   (D)   ORDINARY BINGO means a game with all of the following characteristics:
      (1)   The participants use bingo cards that are divided into 25 spaces
arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of spaces, with each space,
except the central space, being designated by a combination of a letter and a
number and with the central space being designated as a free space;
      (2)   The participants mark or cover the spaces on the bingo cards that
correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a bingo
game operator;
      (3)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and numbers
that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance, either
manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at the
beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards;
      (4)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who properly
announces, during the interval between the announcements of letters and numbers
as described in division (D)(3) above, that a predetermined and preannounced
pattern of spaces has been marked or covered on a bingo card being used by the
participant;
      (5)   A prize is awarded to the winner of the bingo game; and
      (6)   All or any of the participants have paid or promised to pay any
valuable consideration for the right to participate in the bingo game, or,
where none of the participants have paid or promised to pay any valuable
consideration for the right to participate in the bingo game, the total value
of the prize awarded in such game exceeds $25.00.
   (E)   PULL TAB BINGO means a game with all of the following characteristics:
      (1)   The participants use cards having numbers or symbols which are
concealed and preprinted in a manner providing for distribution of prizes;
      (2)   The winning cards are not known prior to the game by any person
participating in the playing or operation of the bingo game;
      (3)   The number or symbol or configuration of numbers or symbols on a
card which will constitute a winning card, and the amount in prize money which
will be awarded for each winning number, symbol or configuration of numbers or
symbols, are determined before any cards in a particular game are distributed;
      (4)   All the preprinted cards bear the legend, “For sale or use only in
a bingo game authorized under state law and pursuant to local ordinance”, and
are printed with information describing the number or symbol or configuration
of numbers or symbols which will constitute a winning card and the amount in
prize money which will be awarded for each winning number, symbol or
configuration of numbers or symbols, and are stamped with the date of
distribution;
      (5)   The winner of the bingo game is determined by the participants’
removing the material concealing the preprinted numbers or symbols on the
cards;
      (6)   The winner of the bingo game is any participant on whose card is
printed the number or symbol or the configuration of numbers or symbols
predetermined to be a winning number or symbol or configuration;
      (7)   The prize is awarded to the winner of the bingo game;
      (8)   The prize for each game of PULL TAB BINGO is awarded during the
same ordinary bingo game in which the cards for such pull tab bingo game are
distributed; and
      (9)   All or any of the participants have paid or promised to pay any
valuable consideration for the right to participate in the bingo game, or,
where none of the participants have paid or promised to pay any valuable
consideration for the right to participate in the bingo game, the total value
of the prize awarded in such game exceeds $25.00.
   (F)   (1)   The form of application for conducting bingo games shall specify
the name of the organization, the frequency with which bingo games will be
held, the location in which bingo games will be held, the name of the person
who will be responsible for the conduct of the games and the name of the person
responsible for keeping the financial records of such activity, and provide for
proof that the organization is exempt from the payment of bank and corporation
tax by California Revenue and Taxation Code, §§ 23701a, 23701b, 23701d, 23701e,
23701f, 23701g and 23701l, or that the organization is a mobile home park
association or a senior citizens’ organization. The proof of exempt status
required in this division (F)(1) must consist of a copy of the application for
exempt status sent to the California Franchise Tax Board, and a certified copy
of the letter from the Franchise Tax Board granting such exempt status.
      (2)   An application for a license shall not be filed unless the
applicant is a qualified organization which has owned or leased property within
the city that was used by the applicant for the performance of the purposes for
which it is organized for at least 12 months immediately preceding the filing
of such application, and the property upon which any bingo game is to be
conducted is property so owned or leased by the applicant. The licensee shall
inform the issuing officer of any revocation of its tax-exempt status.
      (3)   A fee in an amount established by resolution of the City Council
shall accompany each bingo license application.
   (G)   Any organization whose bingo license has been denied or revoked may
not apply for a license to conduct any bingo games for a period of one year
from the date notice of such denial or revocation was served on it, or, if
affirmed after contesting at a hearing as provided in §
11-10-31, from the date of such affirmation; provided, however, if the reason
for revocation is cancellation of the exemption granted under California
Revenue and Taxation Code, §§ 23701(a), 23701(b), 23701(d), 23701(e), 23701(f),
23701(g) and 237011, such organization may again apply for a bingo license upon
proof of reinstatement of such exemption.
   (H)   Each licensee shall have written policies incorporated in its
constitution, articles, bylaws or other regulations setting forth the manner in
which a person may become a member of the organization. Absent any such written
policies, it shall be presumed that the organization has no members who may
operate or staff bingo games within the meaning of California Penal Code, §
326.5.
   (I)   Every member of the organization who operates or staffs bingo games or
distributes cards or prizes for bingo games shall wear a distinctive
identification badge bearing the name of the member and the name of the
organization. Each licensee shall keep a list of members of the organization
who are authorized to staff the operation of the bingo games or distribute
cards or prizes for bingo games, which list shall be made available to any
peace officer requesting the list. Members staffing bingo games or distributing
cards or prizes for bingo games shall not be paid a wage, salary or profit for
such duties.
   (J)   A licensee shall report changes of its officers to the issuing
officer, as defined in §
5-2-1, within ten days of such change.
   (K)   Before operating any pull tab bingo game, each licensee shall report
in writing to the issuing officer a description of how and when pull tab bingo
cards will be distributed by the licensee, and how, when and in what amounts
prizes for pull tab bingo will be distributed by the licensee. Before operating
any pull tab bingo game, each licensee also shall submit to the issuing officer
an exemplar of all pull tab bingo cards intended for distribution. Whenever a
licensee changes any procedure in the operation of its pull tab bingo games,
the licensee shall report the change in writing to the issuing officer.
Whenever the pull tab bingo cards change, the licensee shall submit to the
issuing officer exemplars of the changed cards intended to be distributed.
   (L)   The licensee shall have the bingo license, lists of approved staff and
accounting documents relating to all monies collected, disbursed and
distributed available to the issuing officer for inspection at all times during
any bingo game and during the licensee’s normal business hours.
   (M)   The licensee shall keep full and complete accounting records supported
by properly executed contracts, leases, receipts and other related documents
which pertain to all monies and other forms of income collected in connection
with the conduct of any of its bingo games, disbursed for expenditures in
connection therewith and remaining or distributed for charitable purposes. Such
records shall be clearly identified and readily accessible. Officials of the
city shall have the right to examine and audit such records at any reasonable
time, and the licensee shall fully cooperate with such officials by making such
records available.
   (N)   (1)   At three-month intervals, each licensee shall render to the
issuing officer a written accounting of all bingo games held during the three
months preceding the date of the accounting.
      (2)   Each such accounting shall contain the following information for
the period covered by the accounting:
         (a)   The total number of ordinary bingo cards distributed by the
licensee;
         (b)   The total number of pull tab bingo cards distributed by the
licensee;
         (c)   The total number of ordinary bingo games conducted by the
licensee;
         (d)   The total number of pull tab bingo games conducted by the
licensee;
         (e)   The total amount of money collected by the licensee from the
sale of bingo cards;
         (f)   The total prize money awarded in bingo games;
         (g)   The total costs of the licensee, other than prizes, attributable
to the operation of bingo games;
         (h)   The licensee’s net income from bingo games; and
         (i)   The number and location of the separate fund or account in which
the licensee keeps the proceeds derived from bingo games.
   (O)   A licensee may conduct bingo games on only two days during any seven-
day period. This limitation shall preclude a licensee from conducting a bingo
game at the location authorized pursuant to the license where such licensee has
conducted two bingo games at any other location pursuant to such license or
pursuant to any other license issued by the city during the seven-day period.
Any location approved pursuant to a license for the conduct of bingo games may
be utilized for the conduct of such games on only two days during any seven-day
period, regardless of the number of licensees permitted to conduct bingo games
at such location. Once during each calendar year, the issuing officer may
permit a licensee to conduct bingo games for more than two days during any
seven-day period; provided that such permission shall be limited to bingo games
which will be conducted in conjunction with an established annual event
regularly held by the licensee, such as an annual festival, bazaar or similar
event. A licensee may not conduct bingo games between the hours of 12:00
midnight and 12:00 noon.
   (P)   A licensee shall not permit players in excess of 500 to participate in
any single bingo game.
   (Q)   The issuing officer may prescribe such regulations with respect to the
conduct of the games and the equipment and cards used by the licensee as they
deem necessary to ensure the fairness and integrity of the games and the
accountability of the funds collected.
   (R)   Any violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor. Any violation of
this section shall be grounds for revocation of the license issued for the
operation of bingo games.
   (S)   No license issued under the terms of this subchapter shall be
transferable, and no such license shall be displayed or used in conjunction
with any activity other than the licensed business or by any person other than
the licensee or their employee, nor at any location other than that indicated
on the license and application.
(Prior Code, § 11-10-30) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Bingo games authorized, see § 11-5-18
   Gambling, see §§
11-5-1 et seq.
   License for conducting bingo games, see §
5-3-271
§ 11-10-31 BINGO LICENSE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to issuing the license, the issuing officer shall make
such investigation as they deem necessary to determine whether the applicant
meets the requirements and qualifications for such license, and shall
thereafter either issue a license to the applicant or shall notify the
applicant in writing that their application is denied in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Title 5, Chapter 2. The issuing officer may consult
with and ask for a recommendation from any city or county officer or department
prior to the issuance of a license under this subchapter, and shall, at the
request of any city or county officer or department, supply such officer or
department with a copy of any such license or application therefor.
      (2)   The issuing officer shall deny the application for a license if
they find that the applicant does not fulfill the specific requirements for
such license as set forth in this subchapter or the issuing officer makes any
findings necessary to deny a license under §
5-2-5.
   (B)   After denial of an application for bingo license, or after denial of
renewal of such license, or after suspension or revocation of such a license,
the applicant, or person to whom the permit was granted, may seek review of
such an administrative action in accordance with the provisions of Title 5,
Chapter 2.
***** CHAPTER 11: UNLAWFUL EXPOSURE OF PRIVATE PARTS AND FEMALE BREASTS *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Exposure by Waiters, Waitresses and Entertainers
11-11-1   Prohibited acts
11-11-2   Procuring or assisting violation
11-11-3   Persons deemed employees
11-11-4—11-11-13   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Exposure by Performers in Public
11-11-14   Prohibited acts
11-11-15   Procuring or assisting violation
11-11-16—11-11-25   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Exemption of Theatrical Establishments
11-11-26   Exemption of theatrical establishments
Cross-reference:
Model studios, dance studios and rap session establishments, §§
5-3-291 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. EXPOSURE BY WAITERS, WAITRESSES AND ENTERTAINERS ****
§ 11-11-1 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Every person is guilty of a misdemeanor who, while acting as a waiter,
waitress or entertainer in an establishment which serves food, beverages or
food and beverages, including, but not limited to, alcoholic beverages, for
consumption on the premises of such establishment:
   (A)   Exposes their genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft, perineum,
anal region or pubic hair region;
   (B)   Exposes any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region; or
   (C)   Exposes any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 11-11-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-11-2 PROCURING OR ASSISTING VIOLATION.
   Every person is guilty of a misdemeanor who causes, permits, procures,
counsels or assists any person to expose or simulate exposure as prohibited in
§
11-11-1.
(Prior Code, § 11-11-2) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-11-3 PERSONS DEEMED EMPLOYEES.
   A person shall be deemed to be a waiter, waitress or entertainer if such
person acts in that capacity, without regard to whether or not such person is
paid any compensation by the management of the establishment in which the
activity is performed.
(Prior Code, § 11-11-3) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 11-11-4—11-11-13 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. EXPOSURE BY PERFORMERS IN PUBLIC ****
§ 11-11-14 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Every person is guilty of a misdemeanor who, while participating in any live
act, demonstration or exhibition in any public place, place open to the public
or place open to the public view:
   (A)   Exposes their genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft, perineum,
anal region or pubic hair region;
   (B)   Exposes any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region; or
   (C)   Exposes any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 11-11-14) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-11-15 PROCURING OR ASSISTING VIOLATION.
   Every person is guilty of a misdemeanor who causes, permits, procures,
counsels or assists any person to expose or simulate exposure as prohibited in
§
11-11-14.
(Prior Code, § 11-11-15) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 11-11-16—11-11-25 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. EXEMPTION OF THEATRICAL ESTABLISHMENTS ****
§ 11-11-26 EXEMPTION OF THEATRICAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The provisions of Subchapter 1 and Subchapter 2 shall not apply to a
theater, concert hall or similar establishment which is primarily devoted to
theatrical performances.
(Prior Code, § 11-11-26) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
***** CHAPTER 12: NUDITY ON PUBLIC BEACHES, IN PARKS OR WITHIN PUBLIC VIEW
*****
Section
Subchapter 1. Prohibition of Public Nudity
11-12-1   Findings of fact
11-12-2   Definitions
11-12-3   Prohibited acts
11-12-4—11-12-13   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Exemption of Theatrical Establishments
11-12-14   Exemption of theatrical establishments
11-12-15—11-12-24   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Severability
11-12-25   Severability
Cross-reference:
Parks, beaches and recreational areas, see §§
13-1-1 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. PROHIBITION OF PUBLIC NUDITY ****
§ 11-12-1 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The City Council finds and determines as follows.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city that the public beaches, parks and places
of the city shall be available for the use and enjoyment of the public to the
maximum extent possible.
   (B)   It is further the policy of the city that members of the public are
entitled to use the public beaches, parks and places of the city without being
subjected to offensive conduct by other members of the public.
   (C)   The presence of persons who are nude and exposed to public view in or
on public rights-of-way, public parks, public beaches or any other public land,
or in or on any private property open to public view from any public right-of-
way, public beach, public park or other public land, tends to discourage the
use and enjoyment of the public beaches, parks and places of the city; creates
a nuisance; and is offensive to members of the public who wish to use and enjoy
such public beaches, parks and places, and who are unwillingly exposed to such
persons.
   (D)   The prohibition of nude persons from public places, places open to the
public and places open to public view is necessary to preserve and maintain the
public order and the general welfare of the citizens of the city.
   (E)   It is the intent of the City Council to prohibit nudity in public
places, places open to the public and places open to public view, even when
such nudity is not sexually motivated or otherwise lewd.
(Prior Code, § 11-12-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-12-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUDE. Devoid of an opaque covering over any one of the following parts of
the human anatomy: the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft, perineum,
anal region, pubic hair region or any portion of the female breast below the
top of the areola thereof.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any place of any nature which is dedicated to use by
the public for pedestrian and vehicular travel, and includes, but is not
limited to, a street, sidewalk, curb, gutter, crossing, intersection, parkway,
highway, alley, lane, mall, court, way, avenue, boulevard, road, roadway,
viaduct, subway, tunnel, bridge, thoroughfare, square and any other similar
public way or place.
(Prior Code, § 11-12-2) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 11-12-3 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Every person over the age of ten years is guilty of a misdemeanor who
is nude and exposed to public view in or on any public right-of-way, public
park, public beach or waters adjacent thereto, or other public land, or in or
on any private property open to public view from any public right-of-way,
public beach, public park or other public land.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any acts which take
place wholly within a fully enclosed building or any portion thereof, and
nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prohibit any act which
is expressly authorized or not prohibited by the California Penal Code.
(Prior Code, § 11-12-3) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 11-12-4—11-12-13 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. EXEMPTION OF THEATRICAL ESTABLISHMENTS ****
§ 11-12-14 EXEMPTION OF THEATRICAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The provisions of Subchapter 1 shall not apply to a theater, concert hall or
similar establishment which is primarily devoted to theatrical performances.
(Prior Code, § 11-12-14) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 11-12-15—11-12-24 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. SEVERABILITY ****
§ 11-12-25 SEVERABILITY.
   If any subchapter, section, division, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of
this chapter, or the application thereof to any person or place, is for any
reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter or its application to other persons or
places. The City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this
chapter, and each section, division, sentence, clause, phrase or portion
thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, divisions,
sentences, clauses, phrases or portions or the application thereof to any
person or place are declared invalid or unconstitutional.
(Prior Code, § 11-12-25) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
***** CHAPTER 13: ITEM PRICE MARKING ON PACKAGED CONSUMER COMMODITIES *****
Section
11-13-1   Definitions
11-13-2   Marking of prices required; exceptions
11-13-3   Penalty for violation of chapter; presumptions
11-13-4   Exemption for purposes of experimentation
Cross-reference:
Business regulations, see Title 5
§ 11-13-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMATIC CHECKOUT SYSTEM. An electronic system employing a scanning device
combined with a computer and register to read a universal product code or
similar code on packaging and display and total the cost of the items
purchased.
   CONSUMER COMMODITY.
      (1)   Food, including all material, whether solid, liquid or mixed, and
whether simple or compound, which is used or intended for consumption by human
beings or domestic animals normally kept as household pets, and all substances
or ingredients added to any such material for any purpose. This definition
shall not apply to individual packages of cigarettes or individual cigars;
      (2)   Paper and plastic products, such as, but not limited to, napkins,
facial tissues, toilet tissues, foil wrapping, plastic wrapping, paper toweling
and disposable plates and cups;
      (3)   Detergents, soaps and other cleaning agents; and
      (4)   Pharmaceuticals, including nonprescription drugs, bandages, hygiene
products and toiletries.
    GROCERY DEPARTMENT. An area within a general retail merchandise store which
is engaged primarily in the retail sale of packaged food, rather than food
prepared for immediate consumption on or off the premises.
   GROCERY STORE. A store engaged primarily in the retail sale of packaged
food, rather than food prepared for consumption on the premises.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association or other
organization, group or combination acting as a unit.
   SALE ITEM or SPECIAL. Any consumer commodity offered in good faith for some
appropriate time period, on sale at a price below the normal price that item is
usually sold for in that store.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 11-13-2 MARKING OF PRICES REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every retail grocery store or grocery department within a general retail
merchandise store which uses an automatic checkout system shall cause a clearly
readable price to be indicated on each packaged consumer commodity offered for
sale; however, such requirement shall not apply to:
   (A)   Any unpackaged fresh food produce;
   (B)   Any consumer commodity under three cubic inches in size and weighing
less than three ounces and priced for less than $0.30;
   (C)   Any grocery business which has as its only regular employees the owner
thereof, or the parent, spouse or child of such owner, or, in addition thereto,
not more than two other persons employed on a regular schedule for a continuing
period of time;
   (D)   Identical items within a multi-item package;
   (E)   Items sold through a vending machine;
   (F)   Any consumer commodity which was not generally item-priced as of
January 1, 1977, as determined by the California Department of Food and
Agriculture; and
   (G)   Any consumer commodity offered as a sale item or as a special.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-2) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-13-3 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF CHAPTER; PRESUMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person intentionally violating any of the provisions of §
11-13-2 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100.00 and not more than $500.00,
or by imprisonment for a term of not more than six months, or by both such fine
and imprisonment.
   (B)   Failure to have a clearly readable price indicated on 12 units of the
same item of the same commodity shall give rise to a rebuttable presumption of
intent to violate §
11-13-2.
   (C)   Each additional 12 units of the same item that fail to have a price
indicated on them shall constitute a separate violation of §
11-13-2.
   (D)   Each day that a violation continues after notification thereof by any
person to the grocery store or department manager or assistant manager shall
constitute a separate violation and shall constitute a presumption of intent to
violate §
11-13-2.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-3) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 11-13-4 EXEMPTION FOR PURPOSES OF EXPERIMENTATION.
   (A)   In order to permit experimentation with automatic checkout systems,
each person operating one or more stores as described in §
11-13-2 within the city may operate not to exceed one of its stores without
compliance with the provisions of §
11-13-2.
   (B)   Any person claiming such exemption shall notify the City Clerk in
writing of the name and address of each store described in §
11-13-2 in the city, and shall also designate therein which store shall be
exempt from the provisions of such section. Each store so exempted shall post a
sign within 20 feet of each customer entrance thereto, so placed as to be
clearly visible to customers, stating that the store uses an automatic checkout
system and that consumer commodities are not individually price-marked.
(Prior Code, § 11-13-4) (Ord. 90-11, § 3, passed 3-6-1990)
***** CHAPTER 14: NUISANCES *****
Section
Subchapter 1. Statement of Purpose
11-14-1   Purpose and intent of chapter
11-14-2   Definitions
11-14-3—11-14-10   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Prohibition Against Maintenance of Nuisances
11-14-11   Public nuisance defined; prohibited
11-14-12—11-14-100   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Enforcement and Abatement
11-14-101   Statutory authority
11-14-102   Abatement of public nuisances
11-14-103   Continuing obligation of responsible persons to abate a public
nuisance
11-14-104   Determination of nuisance
11-14-105   Service of required notices
11-14-106   Review by hearing officer and contents of notice of hearing
11-14-107   Additional requirements for demolition of buildings or structures
11-14-108   Additional requirements for the abatement of abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled or inoperative vehicles, or parts thereof
11-14-109   Appointment of hearing officer
11-14-110   Hearing procedure
11-14-111   Hearing on proposed abatement
11-14-112   Judicial review
11-14-113   Extension of time for abatement
11-14-114   Abatement of nuisance
11-14-115   Record of costs of abatement
11-14-116   Reserved
11-14-117   Special assessment for payment of costs
11-14-118   Notice of abatement lien
11-14-119   Treble the costs of abatement
11-14-120   Recordation of substandard notice
11-14-121   Code enforcement fees
11-14-122   Recovery of attorney’s fees
11-14-123   Reserved
11-14-124   Emergency abatement
11-14-125   Severability
11-14-126—11-14-199   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Penalties
11-14-200   Violations generally - misdemeanor
11-14-201   Penalties
11-14-202   Non-exclusive remedies
11-14-203—11-14-299   Reserved
Cross-reference:
Building regulations, see Title 8
Fire protection, see §§
11-3-1 et seq.
Health and sanitation, see Title 6
Recovery of expenses for abatement of nuisances, see §
1-1-25
Editor’s note:
Ord. 2020-205, § 3, adopted 8-4-2020, amended Chapter 14 in its entirety to
read as herein set out. Former Chapter 14, §§ 11-14-1 through 11-14-16, 11-14-
101 through 11-14-103, pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from
Ord. 90-11, § 3, adopted 3-6-1990; Ord. 215-179, § 3,adopted 10-6-2015.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE ****
§ 11-14-1 PURPOSE AND INTENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   Nuisance conditions are offensive or annoying to the senses,
detrimental to property values and community appearance, an obstruction or
interference with the comfortable enjoyment of adjacent properties or premises
(both public and private) and/or are hazardous or injurious to the health,
safety or welfare of the general public. The purpose of this chapter is to
provide remedies for public nuisances. This chapter is not exclusive and is
supplementary to other remedies provided in this code and other state and
ordinance sanctions for maintenance of nuisances and provisions for abatement
of nuisances.
   (B)   The purpose and intent of this chapter includes:
      (1)   To further define as nuisances and violations those conditions and
uses of land that are offensive or annoying to the senses, detrimental to
property values and community appearance, an obstruction or interference with
the comfortable enjoyment of adjacent properties or premises (both public and
private) and/or hazardous or injurious to the health, safety or welfare of the
general public;
      (2)   To develop regulations that will promote the sound maintenance of
property and enhance the conditions of appearance, habitability, occupancy, use
and safety of all structures and premises in the city;
      (3)   (a)   To provide additional enforcement tools to protect public and
private property from acts of vandalism and defacement.
         (b)   Such acts are destructive of the rights and values of private
property owners as well as of the entire community. It is the further intent of
the City Council, through the adoption of this chapter, to provide notice to
all those who disregard the property rights of others, that the city will
strictly enforce the law and seek prosecution against those persons engaging in
the defacement of public or private properties.
      (4)   To establish administrative procedures for the city’s use, upon its
election, to correct or abate violations of this chapter on real property
throughout the city. The procedures for abatement in this part shall not be
exclusive and shall not, in any manner, limit or restrict the city from
pursuing any other remedies available by law, whether civil, equitable or
criminal, or from enforcing city codes and adopted ordinances, or from abating
or causing abatement of nuisances, in any other manner provided by this code or
any other provision of law. The determination of which remedy to use to resolve
any nuisance shall remain in the city’s sole discretion.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-1) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. Any building, facility, structure, use or operation of which has
ceased or been suspended; any real property, personal property or any other
item, object, thing, material or substance on public or private property that,
by its condition of damage, deterioration, disrepair, use, nonuse, suspension
or cessation of operations, obsolescence or location, causes a reasonable
person to conclude that the owner has permanently relinquished all right,
title, claim and possession thereto, or that the building, facility, structure,
real property, personal property or other item, object, thing, material or
substance cannot be used for its intended or designed purpose.
   ABATEMENT PROCEEDINGS. The process used by the city to abate a nuisance
pursuant to California Government Code, § 38773.5.
   ATTRACTANT. Any substance which could reasonably be expected to attract a
wild animal or does attract a wild animal, including, but not limited to,
garbage, trash, food products, pet food, feed, grain, salt or any other edible
thing.
   CITY. City of Laguna Niguel.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of Laguna Niguel or their designee(s).
   CITY PERSONNEL. Any city employee, representative, agent, contractor or
service provider designated by the City Manager, or designee, to abate a public
nuisance.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES. Any substance that is declared by state or federal
law to be a controlled substance.
   DIRECTOR. The Community Development Director of the city or their designee
(s).
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material or substance of any kind that is declared
by any federal, state or local law, ordinance or regulation to be composed of
hazardous material.
   HEARING OFFICER. The person designated by the City Manager to hear hearings
from notices or decisions issued under this chapter or other applicable
portions of the code.
   JUNK. Includes, but is not limited to, any cast-off, damaged, discarded,
junked, obsolete, salvaged, scrapped, unusable, worn-out or wrecked appliance,
device, equipment, furniture, fixture, furnishing, object, material, substance,
tire or thing of any kind or composition. JUNK may include abandoned personal
property, as well as any form of debris, refuse, rubbish, trash or waste.
Factors that may be considered in a determination that personal property is
JUNK include, without limitation, its:
      (1)   Condition of damage, deterioration, disrepair or nonuse;
      (2)   Approximate age and degree of obsolescence;
      (3)   Location;
      (4)   Present operability, functional utility and status of registration
or licensing, where applicable; and
      (5)   Cost of rehabilitation or repair versus its market value.
   NON-DOMESTICATED MAMMALIAN PREDATOR. Means, but is not limited to, coyotes,
raccoons, foxes, opossums, bears, mountain lions and bobcats.
   NON-DOMESTICATED RODENT. Means, but is not limited to, rats, mice and ground
squirrels.
   OWNER. With reference to real property, means any person having legal title
to, or who leases, rents, occupies or has charge, control or possession of, any
real property in the city, including all persons shown as owners on the last
equalized assessment roll of the County Assessor’s office. OWNER, with
reference to personal property, means any person who has legal title, charge,
control or possession of such personal property. OWNERS include persons with
powers of attorney, executors of estates, trustees or who are court-appointed
administrators, conservators, guardians or receivers. The OWNER of any property
within the city has the primary responsibility for keeping the property free of
public nuisances. Tenants and occupants of the property shall be deemed to be
the agents of the OWNER.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
organization or entity of any kind, or such person’s authorized representative.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Property that is not real property, and includes, without
limitation, any appliance, furniture, article, device, equipment, item,
material, product, substance or vehicle.
   PROPERTY. Any personal property or real property of any kind.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any land and any improvements, fixtures, buildings and other
structures of any kind located on or attached to land.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. A responsible person as defined in §
1-3-12.
   VACANT. Real property or any building or structure thereon that is not
legally occupied. Factors that may be used, either alone or in combination, to
determine whether real property, or buildings or structures thereon, is VACANT
include, but shall not be limited to, overgrown and/or dead vegetation;
accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers and/or mail; past due utility
notices and/or disconnected utilities; accumulation of trash, junk and/or other
debris; the absence of window coverings such as curtains, blinds and/or
shutters; the absence of furnishings and/or personal items consistent with
residential and/or commercial furnishings consistent with the permitted uses
within the zone of the real property; statements by neighbors, passersby,
delivery agents, government employees that the property is VACANT.
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved
or drawn upon a highway or other public right-of-way, and includes all
vehicles, as defined by the California Vehicle Code, § 670, and all future
amendments thereto. VEHICLE does not include devices that are:
         (a)   Propelled exclusively by human power such as bicycles and
wheelchairs; or
         (b)   Used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
      (2)   In addition:
         (a)   MOTOR VEHICLE means a motor vehicle as defined in California
Vehicle Code, § 415; and
         (b)   An INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLE includes, but is not limited to, a
vehicle that cannot be immediately started and driven due to a lack of fuel,
lack of necessary parts, a malfunctioning engine or other malfunctioning
systems or parts, a lack of one or more wheels or tires or a complete or nearly
complete lack of air in any of the vehicle’s tires.
   WILDLIFE REHABILITATOR. Any person acting on behalf of a wildlife
rehabilitation facility with a valid permit or license from the California
Department of Fish and Wildlife.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-2) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-3—11-14-10 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. PROHIBITION AGAINST MAINTENANCE OF NUISANCES ****
§ 11-14-11 PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED; PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, PUBLIC NUISANCE or NUISANCE means
anything which is, or likely to become, injurious or detrimental to health,
safety or welfare, or is offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free
use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or
property, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any sidewalk, public park, square, street or highway, as determined
by the Director of Community Development, or their designee. All conditions
hereafter enumerated in this chapter, or that otherwise violate or are contrary
to any provision of the municipal code, are nuisances by definition and
declaration, and unlawful, and said enumerated conditions shall not, in any
manner, be construed to be exclusive or exhaustive. A NUISANCE shall also exist
when a person fails to comply with any condition of a city approval,
entitlement, license or permit or when an activity on, or use of, real property
violates, or is contrary to, any provision or requirement of the municipal
code. Division (B) below sets forth a non-exclusive list of examples of a
public nuisance or nuisance subject to this chapter.
   (B)   It is further hereby declared a public nuisance and unlawful for any
person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge, possession or control of
any property within the city, to allow, cause, create, maintain or suffer, or
permit others to cause, create, maintain or suffer, any of the following
conditions on such property, buildings or other structures:
      (1)   Violations of codes, ordinances and statutes. Any violation of any
provision of the municipal code, or any statute, ordinance or regulation of the
state, the county or any other public agency adopted by reference by the city;
      (2)   Abandonment. Abandoned, broken or neglected equipment, and
machinery, pools, ponds, excavations, wells, shafts, basements or other holes,
refrigerators or other appliances, shopping carts, motor vehicles, any unsound
structures, skateboard ramp or accumulated lumber;
      (3)   Feeding of wild animals.
         (a)   Prohibitions.
            1.   Feeding, or allowing, causing or permitting the feeding of,
any wild birds on public property;
            2.   Depositing on or in any public street, public right-of-way,
sidewalk, public building, public parking lot, park or any other public
property within the city any food or other attractant that can be consumed by
birds;
            3.   Feeding or in any manner providing food or other attractant
for one or more wild birds on private property, except that this prohibition
does not apply to any person with a bird feeder; provided the feeders are
suspended on a cable or other device to make them inaccessible to non-
domesticated mammalian predators, non-domesticated rodents and other wild
animals, and the area below the feeders are kept free from the accumulation of
seed debris and feces;
            4.   Feeding or in any manner providing food for one or more non-
domesticated mammalian predators, non-domesticated rodents or other wild animal
on public or private property; and
            5.   Leaving, or permitting to be left, out-of-doors any garbage
containing food scraps without first securing said food scraps in trash
receptacles or closed containers.
         (b)   Exceptions. The prohibitions in divisions (B)(3)(a)2., (B)(3)
(a)3., (B)(3)(a)4. or (B)(3)(a)5. above do not apply to:
            1.   Any person who is the legal owner/guardian of the wild animal
and the wild animal is kept under a valid license or permit issued by the
California Department of Fish and Wildlife, and in compliance with all
applicable laws;
            2.   Any person who feeds or provides food to a trapped, injured or
unweaned wild animal between the time that the agency charged with animal
control or its designated agent is notified of the wild animal and the wild
animal is picked up by said agency; and
            3.   A wildlife rehabilitator or any person who is using an
attractant to trap an animal in a legally authorized or permitted manner.
      (4)   Fire hazards. Any dry or dead shrub, branch, leaves, palm frond or
tree, combustible refuse or waste or growing material, or the absence of
healthful vegetation, which by reason of its size, manner of growth, condition
and/or location, creates or is likely to cause, create, result in or contribute
to an actual or potential fire hazard to a building, structure, crop or other
real property or personal property;
      (5)   Graffiti. Causing, permitting or allowing any graffiti or other
defacement of real or personal property to remain on any property, including,
but not limited to, on any building, wall, fence, vehicle or structure, for a
period in excess of 24 hours and as described in §
11-8-56;
      (6)   Improper premises maintenance. Maintenance of any property in such
condition as to become so defective, unsightly or deteriorated as to cause, in
the estimation of the Director of Community Development, or designee,
substantial detriment to neighboring properties, including, but not limited to,
any the following:
         (a)   Maintaining real property, including any land, building or other
structure, or any portion thereof:
            1.   Which has been boarded up for a period in excess of seven
consecutive days without a valid demolition or building permit on file with the
city’s Building Division to abate said boarded up condition;
            2.   Which has been left open and unsecured from trespassers,
children, vandals or other public access for an unreasonable period of time;
and
            3.   Which is partially constructed or destroyed or allowed to
remain in a state of partial construction or destruction for an unreasonable
period of time. As used herein, an UNREASONABLE PERIOD shall mean any portion
of time exceeding the period given to a responsible person by the city for the
complete abatement of this nuisance condition with all required city approvals,
permits and inspections. Factors that may be used by the city to establish a
reasonable period for the complete abatement of this nuisance include, but are
not limited to, the following:
               a.   The degree of partial construction or destruction and the
cause therefor;
               b.   Whether or not this condition constitutes an attractive
nuisance or if it otherwise poses or promotes a health or safety hazard to
occupants of the premises, or to others;
               c.   The degree of visibility, if any, of this condition from
adjoining or nearby public or private real property;
               d.   The scope and type of work that is needed to abate this
nuisance;
               e.   The promptness with which a responsible person has applied
for and obtained all required city approvals and permits in order to lawfully
commence the nuisance abatement actions;
               f.   Whether or not a responsible person has complied with other
required technical code requirements, including requesting and passing required
inspections in a timely manner, while completing nuisance abatement actions;
               g.   Whether or not a responsible person has applied for
extensions to a technical code permit or renewed an expired permit, as well as
the number of extensions and renewals that a responsible person has previously
sought or obtained from the city;
               h.   Whether or not a responsible person has made substantial
progress, as determined by the city, in performing nuisance abatement actions
under a technical code permit that has expired, or is about to expire; and
               i.   Whether delays in completing nuisance abatement actions
under a technical code permit have occurred, and the reason(s) for such delays.
         (b)   Which is in a condition of significant deterioration or
disrepair, which may include, but is not limited to, broken or failing fences
and walls, buildings with crumbling plaster or stucco, peeling paint/lack of
paint, broken or inoperable doors or windows, insufficient weatherproofing,
water or other structural damage or broken, cracked, rotted or buckled exterior
walls or roofs, or where such condition otherwise violates, or is contrary to
the municipal code or federal or state law;
         (c)   Which has defective or insufficient lighting so as to render it
dangerous or detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare for an
unreasonable period of time;
         (d)   Which has a front yard, parkway, landscaped setback area or
slope visible from the public right-of-way which lacks turf, other planted
material, decorative rock, bark or planted ground cover or covering, or has
excessive erosion, so as to cause excessive dust or allow the accumulation of
debris;
         (e)   Which has dead vegetation that constitutes an unsightly
appearance;
         (f)   Which has an encroachment in required yard setback areas which
is not specifically permitted under this code;
         (g)   Which has attractive nuisances dangerous to children in the form
of:
            1.   Hazardous or unfenced pools, spas, ponds, other bodies of
water or excavations; or
            2.   Neglected, broken, unsecured or abandoned machinery,
appliances or equipment.
         (h)   Any property or portion thereof in such condition as to be
detrimental to the public health, safety or general welfare or in such manner
as to constitute a nuisance, as defined by California Civil Code, §§ 3479 and/
or 3480.
      (7)   Improper storage. The storage or maintenance inside or upon or
inside any property of any of the following:
         (a)   The keeping, disposal, scattering or accumulation of flammable,
combustible or other materials, including, but not limiting to, composting,
firewood, lumber, junk, trash, dirt, animal or human feces, debris, packing
boxes, pallets, plant cuttings, tree trimmings or wood chips, discarded items
or other personal property in interior or exterior areas of buildings or other
structures or on real property, which:
            1.   Renders the premises unsanitary or substandard as defined by
the California Housing Law, the building code of the city or other applicable
local, state or federal law, ordinance, rule or regulation;
            2.   Causes, creates, results in or contributes to a fire or safety
hazard;
            3.   Harbors, promotes or contributes to the presence of rats,
vermin, insects and/or other disease carriers; or
            4.   Causes, creates or contributes to an offensive odor.
         (b)   The storage of hazardous or toxic materials or substances on any
property, in such a manner as to be injurious, or potentially injurious or
hazardous, to the public health, safety or welfare, or to adjacent properties,
or that otherwise violates local, state or federal laws or regulations;
         (c)   Trailers, campers, boats or motor vehicles present on vacant
real property, or in front yard areas of developed lots other than in
driveways;
         (d)   1.   Inoperative, abandoned, wrecked or dismantled vehicles or
parts thereof present on any real property for a period in excess of ten
consecutive days, excepting vehicles or parts thereof which are completely
enclosed within a building.
            2.   This section shall not apply to a vehicle or part thereof
which is completely enclosed within a building in a lawful manner or where it
is not visible from a street or other public or private property. This section
shall also not apply to a vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in
a lawful manner on private real property in connection with the lawfully
authorized and permitted business of a licensed dismantler, licensed vehicle
dealer or a junkyard; provided, however, that this exception shall not
authorize the maintenance of a public or private nuisance as defined in this
chapter or in any provisions of law other than this chapter.
         (e)   Abandoned, broken or discarded furniture, household appliances
or equipment visible from a public street or other public or private real
property for a period in excess of seven consecutive days;
         (f)   Furniture, other than lawn or patio furniture, on porches, or in
required front or side yards for an unreasonable period of time;
         (g)   Garbage cans or refuse and recyclable receptacles, as described
in § 6-3-45, in front or side yards and visible from a public street or other
public right-of-way, except as permitted by Title 6;
         (h)   Any equipment, machinery or vehicle of any type or description
that is designed, used or maintained for construction-type activities or
businesses that is kept parked, placed or stored on public or private real
property, except when such item is being used during excavation, construction
or demolition operations at the site where said equipment machinery or vehicle
is located pursuant to an active permit issued by the city; and
         (i)   Obstructions of any kind, cause or form that interfere with
required light or ventilation for a building or structure, or that interfere
with, hinder, delay or impede ingress therein and/or egress therefrom.
      (8)   Improper uses. Using, maintaining, allowing, permitting or causing
any of the following on real property, including land, building or structure:
         (a)   The use of private real property for the recreational driving of
any motor vehicle or other vehicle of any kind, including, but not limited to,
a motorized bicycle, moped, motor-driven cycle, motorized scooter, as such
terms are defined by the California Vehicle Code. This provision does not apply
to a motorized self-propelled wheelchair, motorized tricycle or motorized
quadricycle, if operated by a person who, by reason of physical disability, is
otherwise unable to move about as a pedestrian;
         (b)   The use of any building or other structure, or portion thereof,
for living, sleeping or cooking purposes when such building or other structure
or portion thereof was not designed or intended to be used for such
occupancies;
         (c)   The use of any real property, including any land, building or
other structure, or portion thereof, in any manner not permitted by Title 9;
         (d)   The use of real property, including any land, building or other
structure, for any business or other activity inconsistent with or in violation
of the terms and conditions of applicable zoning and land use approvals and
approved plans granted by the city;
         (e)   The use of real property conducted without a valid certificate
of occupancy, or which has a certificate of occupancy inconsistent with the
actual occupancy of the real property;
         (f)   Any condition to occur on any real property, or conducting any
use of real property, that conflicts with state law or federal law; and
         (g)   Any discharge of any substance or material, other than
stormwater, to enter the city’s storm sewer system in violation of the
municipal code or any provision of federal or state law, or any permit issued
by the city or any other local, state or federal agency.
      (9)   Infestation. Buildings and other structures shall be kept free from
insect and rodent infestation. Buildings or other structures in which insects
or rodents are found shall be promptly fumigated to exterminate and/or
otherwise eliminate the infestation, by approved processes that will not be
injurious to human health. After pest elimination, proper precautions shall be
taken to prevent reinfestation. Failure or refusal to comply with any provision
of this division (B) shall constitute a public nuisance;
      (10)   Erosion and subsidence. Land, the topography, geology or
configuration of which, whether in natural state or as a result of grading
operations, excavation, fill or other alterations, causes erosion, subsidence
or surface water drainage problems of such magnitude as to be injurious or
potentially injurious to or adjacent or other properties, or to the public
health, safety and welfare;
      (11)   Overgrown or dead vegetation.
         (a)   Vegetation and/or weeds that:
            1.   Cause an obstruction to the vision of motorists or a hazardous
condition to pedestrian or vehicle traffic;
            2.   Cause visual obstruction of any street sign and/or light so as
to be detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare;
            3.   Creates a fire hazard, dangerous condition or attractive
nuisance to the public, or is likely to cause, create, result in or contribute
to a hazard to the public health or safety;
            4.   Constitutes an unsightly appearance due to the failure to
comply with applicable customary and reasonable standards for landscape
maintenance of residential, commercial or industrial properties within the
city; or
            5.   Prevents, impedes or otherwise restricts access to electric,
water or gas or other utility meters, or to any other public equipment or
facilities, by persons representing the city or any other utility or public
agency requiring or seeking access thereto.
         (b)   For purposes of this division (B)(11), it shall be a presumption
that any real property upon which weeds exceeding six inches in height creates
any of the conditions set forth in divisions (B)(11)(a)1. through (B)(11)(a)4.
above, although weeds of lesser height may also meet such criteria if so
determined by the Director of Community Development, or their designee.
      (12)   Polluted waters. A swimming pool, spa, pond, excavation containing
water or other body of water which is abandoned, unattended, unfiltered or not
otherwise maintained, resulting in the water becoming polluted. For purposes of
this section, the term POLLUTED WATER means water which contains bacterial
growth, algae, remains of insects, remains of deceased animals, reptiles,
rubbish, refuse, waste, dirt, debris, papers, chemicals or other matter or
material which, because of its magnitude, nature or location, constitutes an
unhealthy or unsafe condition or obscures the bottom of the swimming pool, spa,
pond or other body of water;
      (13)   Public burning. The intentional outdoor burning of any personal or
real property, including, but not limited to, any trees, plants, landscaping,
vegetation, waste refuse, trash, material, building, structure, item, matter or
thing of any kind unless specifically authorized by the Fire Marshal. This
provision shall not prohibit the burning of wood or coals in a properly
maintained and operated outdoor grill in connection with preparation of food;
      (14)   Refuse and waste. The keeping of any refuse or waste on any
property for a period in excess of seven consecutive days. REFUSE OR WASTE
shall include, but is not limited to, an accumulation of any of the following:
         (a)   Any trash or debris of any kind including, without limitation:
rubble, asphalt, concrete, plaster, tile, rocks, bricks, soil, building
materials, crates, cartons, containers, boxes, machinery or parts thereof,
scrap metal or other pieces of metal, trimmings from plants or trees, cans,
bottles or barrels;
         (b)   The accumulation of any garbage or refuse, human or animal
excrement or fecal material, uneaten food or food wastes, waste matter or
material that emits an offensive odor or encourages the breeding of flies or
other insects;
         (c)   The accumulation of dirt, litter, fences or debris in doorways,
adjoining sidewalks, parking lots, landscaped or other areas;
         (d)   Rubbish or trash placed so as to be readily visible from nearby
public or private property, except for those times scheduled for collection; or
         (e)   Any property with an accumulation of grease, oil or other
hazardous material on paved or unpaved surfaces, driveways, buildings, walls or
fence, or from which any such material flows or seeps on to any public street
or other public or private property.
      (15)   Unsafe buildings and other structures. Any building, flatwork,
hardscape or structure which has any of the following conditions or defects:
         (a)   Any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit
that is not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide a
safe and adequate means of exit, in case of fire or other emergency, for
persons housed or assembled therein who would be required to, or might use such
door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit;
         (b)   Any damage caused by or resulting from earthquake, wind, flood
or by any other cause to such an extent that the structural strength or
stability of such building or other structure is appreciably less than the
minimum requirements of the building code for a new building or similar
structure, purpose or location;
         (c)   Any portion, structural member or appurtenance of a building or
structure that is likely to fall or to become detached or dislodged or to
collapse and thereby injure persons or damage property;
         (d)   Any structural member, appurtenance or ornamentation on the
exterior of any building or structure, or any portion thereof, that is not of
sufficient strength or stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened
in place, so as to be capable of resisting wind pressure, earthquake forces,
live-load or dead-load as specified in the building code without exceeding the
working stresses permitted in the building code;
         (e)   That because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay or faulty
construction, or because of the removal or movement of some portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building or portion
thereof, or some other cause or condition, is likely to partially or completely
collapse, or some portion of the foundation or underpinning is likely to fall
or give way;
         (f)   Is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used due to
any cause or reason whatsoever;
         (g)   Any damage by fire, wind, earthquake or flood or other calamity,
or dilapidation or deterioration that constitutes an attractive nuisance to
children who might play therein to their danger, or that affords a harbor for
trespassers, homeless persons, vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or
enables persons to resort thereto for the purpose of committing a nuisance, or
other unlawful or immoral acts;
         (h)   Any construction in violation of any specific requirement or
prohibition applicable to such building or structure of the building
regulations of this as set forth in the Building Standards Codes or California
Health and Safety Code, or of any law or ordinance of this state or city
relating to the construction, condition, location or structure of buildings;
         (i)   That is used, or intended to be used, for dwelling purposes, but
which because of dilapidation, decay, damage or faulty construction or
arrangement, or otherwise, is unsanitary or unfit for human habitation, is in a
condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease when so determined by the
health officer, or is likely to cause injury or be detrimental to the health,
safety or general welfare of those living within;
         (j)   That is used, or intended to be used for, dwelling purposes that
has inadequate light, air and sanitation facilities to protect the health,
safety or general welfare of persons living within;
         (k)   That is in such condition as to be a fire hazard or is so
situated as to endanger life or other buildings or property in the vicinity or
provide a ready fuel supply to augment the spread and intensity of fire arising
from any cause;
         (l)   Any building that meets the definition of a substandard building
as defined in California Health and Safety Code, § 17920.3, or the
International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC);
         (m)   Any building or other structure, or any portion thereof, that is
maintained in violation of §
8-1-15; and
         (n)   Any sidewalk, walkway, driveway, parking lot or any other flat
work or hardscape which is debilitated, broken, damaged or raised to such a
degree as to be injurious to property or injurious to persons using said
sidewalk, walkway, driveway, parking lot or other flat work or hardscape.
      (16)   Unlawful signs. Any sign or advertising device or display, as
regulated under Title 9, erected or maintained in violation of the adopted 2025
California Building Code and related codes or Uniform Electrical Code as
adopted by the city, Title 9 of this code or adopted specific plan;
      (17)   Unsafe swimming pools and other outdoor bodies of water. Any
swimming pool, spa or other outdoor body of water maintained in violation of
any of the enclosure requirements contained in the Swimming Pool Safety Act,
codified in California Health and Safety Code, §§ 115920 et seq., or the
provisions of Title 9, Chapter 1, Subchapter 2, as applicable; and
      (18)   Utility cabinets. Any utility cabinet, meter pedestal,
transformer, irrigation controller and other equipment on private property and
visible from the public right-of-way that:
         (a)   Is obsolete, dilapidated, deteriorated or damaged;
         (b)   Is leaning or has fallen; or
         (c)   Has faded or peeling paint, rust or graffiti.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-11) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
Cross-reference:
   Applicable related codes, see §
8-1-12
§§ 11-14-12—11-14-100 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. ENFORCEMENT AND ABATEMENT ****
§ 11-14-101 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The procedure set forth in this subchapter for abatement of nuisances
and the making of the cost of abatement of a public nuisance which exists on a
parcel of land a special assessment against that parcel is adopted pursuant to
California Government Code, §§ 38771 et seq., and Article XI, § 7 of the
California Constitution. The procedure set forth in this subchapter for
abatement applies to any matter which is determined to be a nuisance.
   (B)   The procedure set forth in this subchapter is cumulative and not
exclusive, and is in addition to the procedure for abatement which is conferred
upon the city by California Civil Code, § 3494; California Code of Civil
Procedure, § 731; and any other applicable provision of law.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-101) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-102 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   All conditions or uses that constitute a public nuisance, as defined
in Subchapter 1 or otherwise designated under this code, or that are contrary
to, or in violation of, any other provision or requirement of this code, or of
any applicable county or state law, or regulation thereof, which shall also
constitute a public nuisance, shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition, removal or termination. The procedures for abatement in this
subchapter are cumulative and non-exclusive and shall not, in any manner, limit
or restrict the city from pursuing any other remedies available at law, whether
civil, equitable or criminal, or from enforcing city codes and adopted
ordinances, or from abating or causing abatement of public nuisances, in any
other manner provided by law. The city may, by resolution or applicable
ordinance, establish fees and other amounts due under this chapter, including
for deposits, the filing of a request for hearing or other hearing fees.
   (B)   In addition to this section, Title 1, Chapter 3, Subchapter 2 may be
utilized when applicable to abate nuisances and/or code violations.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-102) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-103 CONTINUING OBLIGATION OF RESPONSIBLE PERSONS TO ABATE A PUBLIC
NUISANCE.
   (A)   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge or possession of
any property within the city shall allow, cause, create, permit, suffer or
maintain a public nuisance to exist thereon. If public nuisances do arise or
occur, responsible persons shall promptly abate them by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition, removal or termination in accordance with all required city
approvals, permits and inspections, when applicable.
   (B)   The city may exercise all available city and state administrative,
civil/injunctive and criminal remedies or any one or combination of these
remedies, available under this code or otherwise provided by law to compel
responsible persons to abate a public nuisance when, in its judgment, such
persons have not completed nuisance abatement actions in a timely or proper
manner, or when responsible persons have failed to prevent an occurrence or
recurrence of a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-103) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-104 DETERMINATION OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever the Director reasonably believes a public nuisance exists,
they may use the procedures set forth in this division (A) for the abatement of
such public nuisance on or may utilize any other procedure authorized by law.
The Director of Community Development, or their designee, may determine that
any property within the city may constitute a nuisance pursuant to Subchapter 2
or any other provision of law, including, but not limited to, California Civil
Code, §§ 3479 and 3480, and may initiate proceedings pursuant to this
subchapter. The procedure set forth in this section shall not apply to public
nuisances constituting an imminent threat or hazard. In such instances, the
provisions of §
11-14-124 shall apply.
   (B)   When the Director determines that a violation of any provision of this
chapter is occurring or exists, they may issue a written notice to any person
responsible for the violation. Any notice to abate issued pursuant to this
section must contain the following information:
      (1)   The address of the real property on which the nuisance condition(s)
exist(s);
      (2)   The code section violated and a description of the violation;
      (3)   The date of the violation;
      (4)   A description of actions required to correct the violation;
      (5)   A reasonable compliance period in which to complete the nuisance
abatement actions (with all required city approvals, permits and inspections,
when applicable);
      (6)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated, the city will seek
recovery of all administrative costs, including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorneys’ fees, incurred in connection with abating the nuisance and a
statement that if the nuisance is not promptly abated, such nuisance may be
abated by the city, in which case the costs associated with such abatement,
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred in
connection with such abatement, may constitute a special assessment or lien
against the property;
      (7)   A statement that the city may record a notice of substandard
conditions or notice of abatement proceedings pursuant to California Government
Code, § 38773.5(e); and
      (8)   The period and manner in which the nuisance determination may be
contested as set forth in §
11-14-106.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-104) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-105 SERVICE OF REQUIRED NOTICES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise expressly required by this chapter, any notice
required by this chapter shall be served in accordance with the methods and
procedures set forth in §
1-3-16.
   (B)   Except as otherwise expressly required by a provision of this chapter,
any notice issued shall be sent to such person’s last known business or
residence address as it appears in the public records or other records
pertaining to the matter to which such notice is directed. The notice shall be
served and posted not less than 30 calendar days before the date of the
hearing.
   (C)   Failure of any person to receive a properly addressed notice by mail
shall not invalidate any action or proceeding pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-105) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-106 REVIEW BY HEARING OFFICER AND CONTENTS OF NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   (1)   A responsible person may contest a notice to abate by filing a
written request for a hearing with the City Clerk’s office within ten calendar
days of service of the notice to abate.
      (2)   The written request shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Name, address and telephone number of each responsible person
who is contesting the notice of abatement;
         (b)   Address and description of real property upon which the city
intends to enter and abate a public nuisance;
         (c)   Date of notice of abatement being contested;
         (d)   Specific action or decision being contested;
         (e)   Grounds for contesting the notice in sufficient detail to enable
the hearing officer to understand the nature of the controversy; and
         (f)   The signature of at least one responsible party.
   (B)   If a timely request for hearing is not received by the City Clerk, the
right to contest the notice of abatement or other notice issued under this
chapter is waived, deemed a waiver of the right to seek judicial review and the
notice to abate is final and binding. In such instances, the city may, but
shall not have the obligation to, cause the abatement with city personnel of
any or all of the nuisance conditions or activities stated in the notice to
abate without any administrative hearing. Entry onto private property that is
both improved and occupied shall, excepting instances of an imminent threat or
hazard, be pursuant to a warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   (1)   An administrative hearing shall be scheduled no later than 60
calendar days, and no sooner than 15 calendar days, of a timely filing.
      (2)   The notice of hearing shall state the date, time and place of the
hearing and be in substantial similarity to the following form:
 
Notice is hereby given that on the ____ day of ____ , the director of community
development of the city determined that a nuisance subject to abatement may
exist on the following described premises. On the ____ day of ____ , at the
____ , located at ____ , a hearing will be held before a hearing officer
appointed by the city manager to determine whether a public nuisance exists on
the premises. If the premises, in all or in part, are found to constitute a
public nuisance and if the same is not promptly abated by the owner, such
nuisance may be abated by the city, in which case the costs of such abatement
will be assessed upon such premises and such costs will constitute a lien upon
such land until paid.
 
The premises are described as follows:
 
[Provide property address]
 
The hearing will address the following public nuisance conditions on the
premises:
 
[Describe condition or activities] _________________________ in violation of
the Laguna Niguel Municipal Code [as well as County and State laws, if
applicable] Section(s) _________.
 
The foregoing public nuisance conditions are subject to abatement by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition, removal, or termination.
 
(Prior Code, § 11-14-106) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-107 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   In addition to the requirements set forth in §
11-14-104, the city must comply with the following additional requirements when
the Director intends to abate a public nuisance by demolition of a building or
structure.
   (A)   The city shall provide responsible persons with a reasonable period to
elect between options of repair, rehabilitation or demolition as well as a
reasonable period of time to complete any of these options, before the city
abates a public nuisance by demolishing a building or structure.
   (B)   The city shall serve a notice of abatement on all secured lien holders
of record with the County Recorder’s office in the event abatement actions
include demolition of a building or structure.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, entry onto any
real property to abate a public nuisance by demolition of a building or
structure, except in cases involving an imminent hazard, shall be pursuant to a
warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply if demolition is
required to address an imminent threat or hazard. In such situation, the
provisions of §
11-14-124 shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-107) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-108 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR THE ABATEMENT OF ABANDONED, WRECKED,
DISMANTLED OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLES, OR PARTS THEREOF.
   A notice of intention to abate and remove an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled
or inoperative vehicle, or parts thereof, as a public nuisance, shall be mailed
by registered mail to the owner of the land on which the vehicle exists.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-108) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-109 APPOINTMENT OF HEARING OFFICER.
   A hearing officer shall be appointed by the City Manager to conduct hearings
pursuant to this chapter as necessary.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-109) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-110 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The hearing for contesting a notice issued under this subchapter will
be conducted by a hearing officer in accordance with the procedures set forth
in Title 1, Chapter 3, Subchapter 2. At least ten days prior to the date of the
hearing, the hearing officer shall notify the responsible person contesting the
notice and city official of the time, date and place for the hearing. To the
extent that specific state or city ordinances set forth additional notice
provisions, the hearing officer shall also comply with such provisions.
   (B)   At the hearing, the hearing officer will consider all relevant
evidence, as determined by the hearing officer, from the city and responsible
person. The issuance of a notice to abate constitutes prima facie evidence of
the existence of a violation. Based upon the evidence so presented, the hearing
officer must determine whether a public nuisance within the meaning of this
chapter exists.
   (C)   If the responsible person fails to appear, the hearing officer may
cancel the hearing. A cancellation of a hearing due to non-appearance of the
responsible person constitutes the responsible person’s waiver of the right to
contest the decision and a failure to exhaust all administrative remedies. In
such instances, the notice to abate is final and binding.
   (D)   Where a request for hearing is filed as provided in this subchapter,
the compliance deadline set forth in the notice to abate is suspended pending
the review of the determination by the hearing officer in the manner set forth
in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-110) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-111 HEARING ON PROPOSED ABATEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   At the time fixed in the notice provided for in §
11-14-106, the hearing officer shall hear the testimony of all competent
persons, subject to reasonable limitations of cumulative testimony, timelines
and other hearing procedures as set forth herein and in Title 1, Chapter 3,
Subchapter 2, desiring to testify with respect to conditions constituting the
alleged nuisance, including the estimated cost of its abatement and any other
matter which may be pertinent. If the hearing officer determines that each
nuisance condition described in the notice of abatement is nonexistent, the
notice of abatement shall be deemed cancelled.
      (2)   If the hearing officer determines that one or more of the nuisance
conditions described in the notice of abatement exists, they shall issue a
written notice of decision in accordance with the procedures and timelines set
forth in §
1-3-23, which shall contain the following:
         (a)   A finding and description of each nuisance condition existing at
the subject property;
         (b)   The name of each person responsible for a nuisance condition or
conditions at the subject property, as well as the name of any person who is
not responsible therefor, if applicable;
         (c)   The required corrective action and a compliance period for each
unabated nuisance condition;
         (d)   Any other finding, determination or requirement that is relevant
or related to the subject matter of the hearing;
         (e)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated, it may be
removed and abated by the city; and
         (f)   The statement: “The decision of the hearing officer is final and
binding. Judicial review of this decision is subject to the provisions and time
limits set forth in California Code of Civil Procedure, §§ 1094.6 et seq.”
   (B)   A copy of the decision shall be served by first class mail on each
responsible person to whom the notice of abatement was issued in accordance
with §
11-14-105. If the owner is not the party contesting the notice, a copy of the
order of abatement shall also be served on the owner by first class mail to the
address shown on the last equalized assessment roll. Failure of a person to
receive a properly addressed decision shall not invalidate any action or
proceeding by the city pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   The failure of any responsible person to comply with an order of
abatement by completing each of the requisite corrective actions in the manner
and time set forth in the order of abatement constitutes a misdemeanor offense.
   (D)   The decision of the hearing officer shall be in writing and shall be
final upon service of a copy of the decision and order by first-class mail to
each responsible person and owner in accordance with division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-111) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-112 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   The decision of the hearing officer is final. The responsible person
contesting the notice may bring a judicial action to contest such decision in
accordance with the California Code of Civil Procedure, § 1094.6 or as
otherwise permitted by law within 20 calendar days after said person receives a
copy of the notice of decision. Failure to do so means all objections to the
hearing officer’s decision are waived
§ 11-14-113 EXTENSION OF TIME FOR ABATEMENT.
   The Director may grant an extension of time to abate a nuisance under this
chapter if, in their opinion, good cause for an extension exists.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-113) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-114 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Any responsible person may abate a nuisance in accordance with
the hearing officer’s decision prior to the date of entry of the city upon the
subject real property; provided that all corrective actions are completed in
accordance with all required city permits, approvals and inspections, prior to
said entry date. The Director must be advised of the abatement so the Director
may inspect the premises to ensure that the nuisance has in fact been abated.
In such instances, all administrative proceedings shall be cancelled, with the
exception of the city’s right to seek recovery of its incidental expenses, code
enforcement fees, attorney’s fees and any other applicable fees incurred prior
to abatement by such responsible person.
      (2)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to prevent the city from
commencing a civil or criminal proceeding to abate a public nuisance or from
pursuing any other means or remedies available to it under provisions of
applicable ordinances, state law or equity to correct hazards or deficiencies
in real property in addition to or as alternatives to the proceedings set forth
herein.
   (B)   If the nuisance is not completely abated by the date specified in the
notice to abate or in the hearing officer’s order in the event of a request for
hearing, then the Director may immediately cause the same to be abated by city
personnel or under private contract. The city and its agents are expressly
authorized to enter the premises for this purpose. A warrant or other order
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction must be obtained before any entry
if the nuisance cannot be inspected or abated without an intrusion into
privacy.
   (C)   It is unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to obstruct, impede or
interfere with city personnel or its agents in the performance of any act that
is carried out to abate a public nuisance.
   (D)   Any building, structure and/or personal property that is removed by
city personnel or agents from premises in the abatement of a nuisance shall be
lawfully disposed of or destroyed without regard to its actual or salvage
value.
   (E)   All abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles or parts
thereof that are removed from real property shall be transported to a scrap
yard or automobile dismantler’s yard. After a vehicle has been removed, it
shall not thereafter be reconstructed or made operable, unless it is a vehicle
which qualifies for historical vehicle license plates pursuant to the
California Vehicle Code, § 5004, in which case the vehicle may be reconstructed
or made operable. Within five days after the date of the removal of the
vehicle, or parts thereof, notice shall be given to the Department of Motor
Vehicles identifying the vehicle, or parts thereof, removed. At the same time,
there shall be transmitted to the Department of Motor Vehicles any evidence of
registration available, including registration certificates of title, and
license plates.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-114) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-115 RECORD OF COSTS OF ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The owner of the premises and any other responsible party shall be
liable to the city for all costs incurred by the city in abating a public
nuisance or seeking to abate a public nuisance. The Director of Community
Development, or their designee, shall keep an itemized account of the costs,
including incidental costs, incurred in abating a nuisance or seeking to abate
a public nuisance under this subchapter. The Director shall post conspicuously
on the property, and shall also mail to the owner and occupant of the property,
a statement showing the cost of the abatement. For the purposes of this
section, the terms COSTS and INCIDENTAL COSTS include, but are not limited to,
to the actual expenses and costs of the city in preparation of notices,
specifications and contracts, investigation, inspection of the work and the
cost of printing and mailings required under this subchapter, and any
attorney’s fees and costs expended in the abatement of the nuisance, through
civil action or otherwise.
   (B)   The city must serve a written, itemized report of the nuisance
abatement costs upon each person with a recorded interest in the subject
property and any other responsible party providing notice of the costs and
demanding payment. The notice of abatement costs must contain the following:
      (1)   A demand for timely, full payment of the costs to the city within
20 calendar days of the date of service;
      (2)   A statement that any unpaid amounts may become a lien and special
assessment against the property; and
      (3)   A statement that the person so charged may file a request for
hearing with the City Clerk within 20 days.
   (C)   The person so charged may file an request for hearing with the City
Clerk as set forth in Title 1, Chapter 3, Subchapter 2. If the notice of
abatement costs is contested, the same procedures as specified in Title 1,
Chapter 3, Subchapter 2 apply, except that scope of the hearing is limited to
the appropriateness of the amount of the abatement costs, and the hearing
officer’s decision may only confirm, discharge or modify the amount of costs.
The confirmed abatement costs must be tendered to the city within 20 calendar
days of the date of service of the hearing officer’s decision. The hearing
officer’s decision shall be final. The city may thereafter proceed to collect
its abatement costs in any manner allowed by law. The failure of any person who
has been properly served with notice pursuant to this section is a waiver of
the right to contest the report, a waiver of the right to a hearing, a failure
to exhaust administrative remedies and a bar to any further challenge to the
city’s invoice and nuisance abatement costs.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-115) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-116 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 11-14-117 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FOR PAYMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   As an alternative to any other lien described in this section or
authorized by law, pursuant to the California Government Code, § 38773.5, if
the nuisance abatement costs are upheld, in full or in part, by the hearing
officer, or if the time for requesting a hearing has elapsed and the itemized
report of abatement costs has not been paid in full within the time designated
by this subchapter, the city may levy a special assessment against the real
property on which the violation occurred. The assessment shall continue until
it is paid, together with interest at the rate of 7% a year computed from the
date of confirmation of the statement until payment.
   (B)   Before levying a special assessment, a notice of special assessment
must be served upon all persons or entities with a recorded interest in the
subject property in the manner required under §
11-14-105 at the time the assessment is imposed on the owner of the property if
the property owner’s identity can be determined from the County Assessor’s or
County Recorder’s records, by certified mail not less than ten days prior to
the time set for hearing. In addition, the owner of record must be served in
accordance with California Government Code, § 38773.5. The notice must specify
that the property may be sold after three years by the Tax Collector for unpaid
delinquent assessments.
   (C)   The notice of special assessment is entitled to recordation with the
County Recorder’s office. A copy of the notice of special assessment must be
transmitted to the County Tax Assessor and Tax Collector, whereupon the Tax
Assessor and Tax Collector shall add the amount of the special assessment on
the next regular bill for real estate taxes levied against the property
identified in the notice of special assessment. Thereafter, the special
assessment shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner as
ordinary municipal taxes are collected and shall be subject to the same
penalties and the same procedure and sale in the case of delinquency as
provided by law for ordinary municipal taxes. After recordation, the special
assessment may be foreclosed on as a lien in the manner and means provided by
law.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-117) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-118 NOTICE OF ABATEMENT LIEN.
   (A)   Pursuant to the California Government Code, § 38773.1, the city may
recover its abatement and related administrative costs by a nuisance abatement
lien against the property on which the nuisance was abated. If the nuisance
abatement costs are upheld, in full or in part, by the hearing officer, or if
the time for requesting a hearing has elapsed and the itemized report of
abatement costs has not been paid in full within the time designated by this
subchapter, then the city may record a lien against the nuisance property for
any unpaid amount.
   (B)   Before recording a lien, the city must serve notice of the lien in the
manner required under §
11-14-105 on all persons with a recorded interest in the subject property. In
addition, the owner of record must be served in accordance with California
Government Code, § 38773.1(b).
   (C)   The nuisance abatement lien must be recorded in the office of the
County Recorder; and from the date of recording, the nuisance abatement lien
shall have the force, effect and priority of a judgment lien, and shall
continue in effect until discharged by the city. The lien may carry such
additional administrative charges as set forth by resolution of the City
Council.
   (D)   The nuisance abatement lien recorded pursuant to this section shall
identify the city as the agency for whose benefit the lien is established; the
amount of the lien; the date of the order for abatement of the nuisance; the
address, legal description and assessor’s parcel number of the property on
which the lien is imposed; and the name and address of the recorded owner of
the property.
   (E)   The nuisance abatement lien may be foreclosed by an action brought by
the city for a money judgment. All costs and expenses relating to the
processing, recording and enforcement of the abatement lien, including
recording fees, noticing costs and attorney’s fees shall be added to the amount
of the lien and shall be secured thereby.
   (F)   Upon payment or other satisfaction of the abatement lien, a notice of
release must be prepared and recorded by the City Clerk.
§ 11-14-119 TREBLE THE COSTS OF ABATEMENT.
   Pursuant to California Government Code, § 38773.7 (or any subsequent
amendment thereto), upon entry of a second or subsequent civil or criminal
judgment within a two-year period finding that an owner of property is
responsible for a public nuisance except for public nuisance conditions abated
pursuant to California Health and Safety Code, § 17980 (California Housing
Law), the court may order that person to pay treble the costs of the abatement.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-119) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-120 RECORDATION OF SUBSTANDARD NOTICE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision of the municipal code to the contrary,
if the city determines that any property, building or structure, or any part
thereof, is in violation of any provision of the municipal code and said
violation has not been fully abated or corrected, as determined by the city, in
the manner and time provided in a written notice to a responsible person, then
the city, in its sole discretion, may record a notice of substandard property
with the County Recorder’s office against said premises. As used herein, FULLY
ABATED OR CORRECTED includes the procurement of all required city approvals,
permits, licenses and the passage of all city required inspections.
   (B)   The city may record a notice of substandard property without the
issuance of a notice of abatement provided that a written notice of violation
or a written notice of correction to a responsible person previously disclosed
that a substandard notice may be recorded against a property if a violation is
not fully abated or corrected in the manner and time delineated in said notice.
   (C)   A notice of substandard property may be recorded after service of a
notice of abatement provided that:
      (1)   The notice of abatement contained this disclosure;
      (2)   The public nuisance was not, as determined by the city, fully
abated or corrected in the manner and time specified in the notice of
abatement; and
      (3)   A timely and proper request for hearing to the notice of abatement
was not made.
   (D)   The form that constitutes a notice of substandard property shall be
approved by the City Attorney or the City Prosecutor.
   (E)   The city shall record a notice of rescission of substandard property
with the County Recorder’s office within ten business days of its determination
that a violation or a public nuisance has been fully abated or corrected.
   (F)   The city shall cause copies of recorded notices of substandard
property and notices of rescission of substandard property to be served on all
persons having an ownership interest in the subject real property as shown in
the last equalized assessment roll of the County Assessor’s office. Service
thereof shall be by first class mail. Failure of any person to receive such
notices shall not invalidate any action or proceeding pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-120) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-121 CODE ENFORCEMENT FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to California Health and Safety Code, § 17951, and any
successor statute thereto, responsible persons who cause, allow, permit, suffer
or maintain a violation in, or upon, residential properties shall be charged
fees (hereafter “code enforcement fees”) by the city to defray its costs of
code enforcement actions, as hereafter defined. Such fees shall not exceed the
amount reasonably required to achieve this objective and are chargeable whether
the city’s code enforcement actions occur in the absence of formal
administrative or judicial proceedings, as well as prior to, during or
subsequent to, the initiation of such proceedings.
   (B)   The amount(s) or rate(s) of code enforcement fees for city personnel
time and other resources that are used for code enforcement actions shall be
established, and may thereafter be amended, by resolution by the City Council.
   (C)   The City Manager, or a designee thereof, is authorized to adopt
regulations for the uniform imposition of code enforcement fees, and for
related administrative actions pertaining to such fees.
   (D)   The fees imposed pursuant to this section shall be in addition to any
other fees or charges that responsible persons may owe in accordance with any
other provision of the this code, or which are imposed pursuant to county,
state or federal laws or regulations.
   (E)   Code enforcement fees shall be recoverable in conjunction with any
civil, administrative or criminal action to abate, cause the abatement or
cessation of or otherwise remove a violation or a public nuisance.
   (F)   Failure to pay code enforcement fees shall constitute a debt that is
collectible in any manner allowed by law.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-121) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-122 RECOVERY OF ATTORNEY’S FEES.
   A prevailing party in any administrative, civil or equitable judicial action
to abate, or cause the abatement of a public nuisance, as defined in this
chapter, or in any appeal or other judicial action arising therefrom, may
recover reasonable attorney’s fees in accordance with the following divisions:
   (A)   Attorney’s fees are not recoverable by any person as a prevailing
party, unless the City Manager, or a designee thereof, or an attorney for, and
on behalf of, the city, elects in writing to seek recovery of the city’s
attorney’s fees at the initiation of that individual action or proceeding.
Failure to make such an election precludes any entitlement to, or award of,
attorney’s fees in favor of any person or the city.
   (B)   The city is the prevailing party when an administrative or judicial
determination is made or affirmed by which a person is found to be responsible
for one or more conditions or activities that constitute a public nuisance. A
person is the prevailing party only when a final administrative or judicial
determination completely absolves that person of responsibility for all
conditions or activities that were alleged, in that action or proceeding, to
constitute a public nuisance. An administrative or judicial determination that
results in findings of responsibility and non-responsibility on the part of a
person for conditions or activities that were alleged in that action or
proceeding to constitute a public nuisance shall nevertheless result in the
city being the prevailing party.
   (C)   Provided that the city has made an election to seek attorney’s fees,
an award of attorney’s fees to a person shall not exceed the amount of
reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the city in that action or proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-122) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-123 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 11-14-124 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision of the municipal code to the contrary,
the City Manager, Director of Community Development, the Police Chief, the Fire
Chief or the Building Official, or any of their designees, may cause a public
nuisance to be summarily abated if it is determined, in their sole discretion,
that the nuisance creates an imminent threat to public health or safety or any
person or persons, or imminent hazard to real or personal property.
   (B)   Prior to abating a public nuisance that creates an imminent threat or
hazard, the City Manager, Director of Community Development, Police Chief or
Building Official or their designees shall attempt to notify a responsible
person by telephone or in writing of the imminent threat or hazard and request
its abatement by said person; provided, however, that the City Manager,
Director of Community Development, Police Chief or Building Official or their
designees may dispense with any attempt at prior notification of a responsible
person if, in the sole discretion of the City Manager, Director of Community
Development, Police Chief or Building Official or their designees, the nature
or severity of the hazard justifies such inaction. If notice has been so given,
but, in the sole discretion of the City Manager, Director of Community
Development, Police Chief or building official or their designees, the
responsible person(s) fail(s) to take immediate and meaningful steps to abate
the imminent threat or hazard, the city may abate the nuisance with city
personnel or agents without further notice, and charge the costs and fees
thereof to the responsible person(s).
   (C)   Within ten business days following emergency action of the city to
abate an imminent threat or hazard, the city shall serve any responsible person
with a notice of emergency abatement of an imminent threat or hazard by first
class mail. Notice to a property owner shall be mailed to the mailing address
set forth in the last equalized assessment roll of the County Assessor’s
office. Failure of any responsible person to receive a properly addressed
notice of emergency abatement by the city by mail shall not invalidate any
action or proceeding pursuant to this chapter.
   (D)   A notice of emergency abatement of an imminent threat or hazard shall
contain the following provisions:
      (1)   The name of all known responsible persons who are being served with
the notice of emergency abatement by the city of an imminent threat or hazard
and the address of the real property on which the imminent threat or hazard was
present;
      (2)   A brief description of the condition(s) and reasons why it
constitutes an imminent threat or hazard;
      (3)   A brief description of the law prohibiting or pertaining to the
imminent threat or hazard; and
      (4)   A brief description of the city’s actions to abate the imminent
threat or hazard.
   (E)   Omission of any of the foregoing provisions in a notice of emergency
abatement of an imminent threat or hazard, whether in whole or in part, or the
failure of a responsible person to receive this document, shall not render it
defective or render any proceeding or action pursuant to this chapter invalid.
   (F)   Emergency abatement of an imminent threat or hazard by the city shall
not preclude the city from recording a notice of substandard property, if
conditions thereafter remain at the premises that constitute a violation of law
or a public nuisance.
   (G)   The city shall be entitled to recover its fees and costs (incidental
or otherwise) for the abatement of an imminent threat or hazard. In such
instances, the city shall follow the procedures set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-124) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-125 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this subchapter is found to be unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, that invalidity will
not affect the remaining provisions of this subchapter, which can be
implemented without the invalid provisions, and to this end, the provisions of
this subchapter are declared to be severable.
§§ 11-14-126—11-14-199 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. PENALTIES ****
§ 11-14-200 VIOLATIONS GENERALLY - MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine not
to exceed $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not
more than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Any violation expressly declared to be punishable, in the discretion
of the court by either a fine, or by a fine or imprisonment, or both, shall
become an infraction for all purposes under any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Where a judgment imposes a punishment of a fine not exceeding
$100.00 in the case of a first offense;
      (2)   When the court grants probation to a defendant without the
imposition of a sentence and, at the time of granting probation, or on
application of the defendant or probation officer thereafter, the court
declares the offense to be an infraction; or
      (3)   When the City Attorney or any deputy district attorney files in a
court having jurisdiction over misdemeanor offenses a complaint specifying that
the offense is an infraction.
   (C)   Each such person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day during any portion of which any violation of any provision of this
chapter is committed, continued or permitted by such person, and may be
punished accordingly.
   (D)   The term PERSON, as used in this chapter, includes any natural person,
and also includes any corporation, partnership or any other entity which owns,
leases or controls property, and any other responsible person.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-200) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-201 PENALTIES.
   Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful by this chapter, it shall
include causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or concealing the fact
of such act or omission.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-201) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 11-14-202 NON-EXCLUSIVE REMEDIES.
   Each and every remedy available for the enforcement of this chapter shall be
cumulative and non-exclusive, and in addition to any other remedies available
at law or in equity.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-202) (Ord. 2020-205, § 3, passed 8-4-2020)
§§ 11-14-203—11-14-299 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
***** CHAPTER 15: EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS *****
Section
Subchapter 1. In General
11-15-1   Purpose
11-15-2   Definition
11-15-3   Disaster Council membership
11-15-4   Disaster Council powers and duties
11-15-5   Director and Assistant Director of Emergency Services
11-15-6   Powers and duties of the Director and Assistant Director of Emergency
Services
11-15-7   Emergency organization
11-15-8   Emergency plan
11-15-9   Expenditures
11-15-10   Punishment of violations
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. IN GENERAL ****
§ 11-15-1 PURPOSE.
   The declared purposes of this chapter are to provide for the preparation and
carrying out of plans for the protection of persons and property within this
city in the event of an emergency; the direction of the emergency organization;
and the coordination of the emergency functions of this city with all other
public agencies, corporations, organizations and affected private persons.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-1) (Ord. 94-75, § 1, passed 6-21-1994)
§ 11-15-2 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY. The accrual or threatened existence of conditions of disaster or
of extreme peril to the safety of persons and property within this city caused
by such conditions as air pollution, fire, flood, storm, epidemic, riot or
earthquake; war or imminent threat of war; or other conditions, other than
conditions resulting from labor controversy, which conditions are or are likely
to be beyond the control of services, personnel, equipment and facilities of
this city, and required the combined forces of other political subdivisions to
combat.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-2) (Ord. 94-75, § 1, passed 6-21-1994)
§ 11-15-3 DISASTER COUNCIL MEMBERSHIP.
   The city disaster council is hereby created and shall consist of the
following:
   (A)   The Mayor who shall be an ex officio member and who shall serve as a
liaison between the Disaster Council and the City Council;
   (B)   The Director of Emergency Services, who shall be Chairperson;
   (C)   The assistant director of emergency services, who shall be Vice Chair;
   (D)   Members of the City Public Safety Committee;
   (E)   Such chiefs of emergency services as are provided for in a current
emergency plan of this city, adopted pursuant to this chapter; and
   (F)   Such representatives of civic, business, labor, veterans, professional
or other organizations having an official emergency responsibility, as may be
appointed by the Director with the advice and consent of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-3) (Ord. 94-75, § 1, passed 6-21-1994)
§ 11-15-4 DISASTER COUNCIL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the City Disaster Council, and it is hereby
empowered, to develop and recommend for adoption by the City Council, emergency
and mutual aid plans and agreements and such divisions and resolutions and
rules and regulations as are necessary to implement such plans and agreements.
The Disaster Council shall meet upon call of the Chairperson or, in their
absence from the city or inability to call such meeting, upon call of the Vice
Chair.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-4) (Ord. 94-75, § 1, passed 6-21-1994)
§ 11-15-5 DIRECTOR AND ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY SERVICES.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Director of Emergency Services.
The City Manager shall be the Director of Emergency Services.
   (B)   There is hereby created the office of Assistant Director of Emergency
Services, who shall be appointed by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-5) (Ord. 94-75, § 1, passed 6-21-1994)
§ 11-15-6 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR AND ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY
SERVICES.
   (A)   The Director is hereby empowered to:
      (1)   Request the City Council to proclaim the existence or threatened
existence of a “local emergency” if the City Council is in session, or to issue
such proclamation if the City Council is not in session. Whenever a local
emergency is proclaimed by the Director, the City Council shall take action to
ratify the proclamation within seven days thereafter or the proclamation shall
have no further force or effect;
      (2)   Request the governor to proclaim a “state of emergency” when, in
the opinion of the Director, the locally available resources are inadequate to
cope with the emergency;
      (3)   Control and direct the effort of the emergency organization of this
city for the accomplishment of the purposes of this chapter;
      (4)   Direct cooperation between and coordination of services and staff
of the emergency organization of this city; and resolve questions of authority
and responsibility that may arise between them;
      (5)   Represent this city in all dealings with public or private agencies
on matters pertaining to emergencies as defined herein; and
      (6)   In the event of the proclamation of a “local emergency” as herein
provided, the proclamation of a “state of emergency” by the governor or the
Director of the California Office of Emergency Services or the existence of a
“state of war emergency”, the Director is hereby empowered:
         (a)   To make and issue rules and regulations on matter reasonably
related to the protection of life and property as affected by such emergency;
provided, however, such rules and regulations must be confirmed at the earliest
practicable time by the City Council;
         (b)   To obtain vital supplies, equipment and such other properties
found lacking and needed for the protection of life and property and to bind
the city for the fair value thereof and, if required immediately, to commandeer
the same for public use;
         (c)   To require emergency services of any city officer or employee
and, in the event of the proclamation of a “state of emergency” in the county
in which this city is located or the existence of a “state of war emergency”,
to command the aid of as many citizens of this community as they deem necessary
in the execution of their duties; such persons shall be entitled to all
privileges, benefits and immunities as are provided by state law for registered
disaster service workers;
         (d)   To requisition necessary personnel or material of any city
department or agency; and
         (e)   To execute all of their ordinary power as City Manager all of
the special powers conferred upon them by this chapter or by resolution or
emergency plan pursuant hereto adopted by the City Council, all powers
conferred upon them by any statute, by any agreement approved by the City
Council and by any other lawful authority.
   (B)   The Director of Emergency Services shall designate the order of
succession to that office, to take effect in the event the Director is
unavailable to attend meetings and otherwise perform their duties during an
emergency. Such order of succession shall be approved by the City Council.
   (C)   The Assistant Director shall, under the supervision of the Director
and with the assistance of emergency service chiefs, develop emergency plans
and manage the emergency programs of this city; and shall have such other
powers and duties as may be assigned by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-6) (Ord. 94-75, § 1, passed 6-21-1994)
§ 11-15-7 EMERGENCY ORGANIZATION.
   All officers and employees of this city, together with those volunteer
forces enrolled to aid them during an emergency, and all groups, organizations
and persons who may, by agreement or operation of law, including persons
impressed into service under the provisions of §
11-15-6(A)(6), be charged with duties incident to the protection of life and
property in this city during such emergency, shall constitute the emergency
organization of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-7) (Ord. 94-75, § 1, passed 6-21-1994)
§ 11-15-8 EMERGENCY PLAN.
   The City Disaster Council shall be responsible for the development of the
city emergency plan, which plan shall provide for the effective mobilization of
all of the resources of this city, both public and private, to meet any
condition constituting a local emergency, state of emergency or state of war
emergency; and shall provide for the organization, powers and duties, services
and staff of the emergency organization. Such plan shall take effect upon
adoption, by resolution, of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-8) (Ord. 94-75, § 1, passed 6-21-1994)
§ 11-15-9 EXPENDITURES.
   Any expenditures made in connection with emergency activities, including
mutual aid activities, shall be deemed conclusively to be for the direct
protection and benefit of the inhabitants and property of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-9) (Ord. 94-75, § 1, passed 6-21-1994)
§ 11-15-10 PUNISHMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not to exceed $500.00, or
by imprisonment for not to exceed six months, or both, for any person during an
emergency, to:
   (A)   Willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency
organization in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued
pursuant to this chapter, or in the performance of any duty imposed upon them
by virtue of this chapter;
   (B)   Do any act forbidden by any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant
to this chapter, if such act is of such nature as to give or be likely to give
assistance to the enemy or to imperil the lives or property of inhabitants of
this city, or to prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection thereof;
and
   (C)   Wear, carry or display, without authority, any means of identification
specified by the emergency agency of the state.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-10) (Ord. 94-75, § 1, passed 6-21-1994)
***** CHAPTER 16: ABANDONED PERSONAL PROPERTY AND ENCAMPMENTS *****
Section
11-16-1   Purpose
11-16-2   Definitions
11-16-3   Protection of waterways
11-16-4   Abandoned personal property
11-16-5   Encampments or sleeping on city property
11-16-6   Abatement
11-16-7   Enforcement and administrative regulations
§ 11-16-1 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Publicly-owned or controlled property within the city should be
readily accessible and available to residents, businesses and the public at
large for their intended purposes. The use of these public areas for camping
purposes and/or for the storage of personal property interferes with the rights
of others to use and enjoy these public areas as they are intended and can
constitute a public health and safety hazard which adversely impacts
neighborhoods and commercial areas. Additionally, the City Council finds that
some of these public lands are environmentally sensitive and may be
significantly damaged by unregulated human activity.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to maintain these public areas within
the city in a clean, sanitary, safe and accessible condition; to adequately
protect the health, safety, environment and general welfare of the community;
and to ensure that these public areas are used for their intended purposes and
remain accessible to all citizens, businesses and visitors in the city.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to interfere with otherwise lawful
and ordinary uses of public property or to prohibit the activities of an owner
of private property or other lawful user of private property that are normally
associated with and incidental to the lawful and authorized use of private
property.
§ 11-16-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT. The process of documenting and collecting eligible items for
storage, and removing and disposing of, recycling or reusing of waste at an
encampment according to the process in §
11-16-6.
   CAMP. To pitch, erect or occupy an encampment, or to use camp paraphernalia
or both, for the purpose of, or in a way that facilitates, outdoor sheltering
for living accommodation purposes or for remaining outdoors overnight.
   CITY. The City of Laguna Niguel, California.
   CAMP PARAPHERNALIA. Personal property used to facilitate occupancy of an
area and includes personal property typically associated with camping, such as
tarps, cots, beds, sleeping bags, hammocks, bedding, camp stoves, cooking
equipment, buckets, and similar equipment, mattresses, couches, dressers or
other furniture.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of Laguna Niguel or their
designee(s). This can include, but is not limited to, the Orange County Fire
Authority, the Orange County Sheriff’s Department, personnel from the City Code
Compliance Division and other city employees designated by the City Manager as
having authority to enforce this chapter.
   ENCAMPMENT. One or more temporary, makeshift or hand-built structures not
intended for long-term continuous occupancy, including tents, that are used to
shelter one or more persons or their belongings and that are not authorized by
the property owner. ENCAMPMENT includes any camp paraphernalia and personal
property associated with or located in or around the structures or tents.
   OPEN SPACE. Any undeveloped public property, either primarily in its natural
state, including canyons, bluffs and unimproved waterways, or that is held out
by the city or used by the public for passive recreational purposes,
conservation, habitat preservation or that maintains or enhances the
conservation of natural or scenic resources.
   PARK. Any public property, whether developed or undeveloped, held out by the
city or used by the public for active or passive park or recreation uses,
including adjacent buffer lands and natural areas and any adjacent parking lots
and perimeter sidewalks.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any real property or easement owned, operated or managed by
the city.
   SHELTER. Any city-funded shelter or shelter provided by the city for shelter
placements where individuals or families experiencing homelessness can access
beds and other services or an area designated by the City Manager for use by
individuals or families experiencing homelessness.
   UNATTENDED. No person is present with the personal property who asserts or
claims ownership of the personal property.
   WASTE. Any rubbish, solid waste, liquid waste, infectious waste or medical
waste. WASTE also includes abandoned or unidentified personal property that is
left unattended on public sidewalks and rights-of-way or other public property.
WASTE does not include compost piles, composting or recyclable material
properly contained and disposed of in a timely fashion.
   WATERWAY. All natural or artificial waterways, including, but not limited
to, Aliso Creek, wetlands, flood control channels and any other significant
water features located within the boundaries of the city.
§ 11-16-3 PROTECTION OF WATERWAYS.
   It is unlawful for any person to do any of the following:
   (A)   Build or erect a structure of any type along the banks of any
waterway, or drive a nail or other object into any tree or other natural area
vegetation for the purpose of building an encampment or any other structure, or
to affix an object to any tree or other natural vegetation;
   (B)   Move boulders or large rocks, destroy vegetation, paved roads or paths
created by the city, or otherwise reconfigure the natural landscape in the
waters of or along the banks of a waterway;
   (C)   Drive, park or bring any vehicle along the banks of a waterway, except
in places specifically provided and designated for vehicular use;
   (D)   Dig on the banks of a waterway; or
   (E)   Discharge or store waste, including garbage, refuse or human or animal
waste, along the banks or into the waters of a waterway.
§ 11-16-4 ABANDONED PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any unattended personal property or possessions located on
public property whose owner cannot be readily identified are presumed to be
abandoned and are subject to removal pursuant to California Civil Code, §
2080.7. Enforcement officials shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain
whether the unattended personal property or possessions have been abandoned
and, if so, to thereafter cause their removal. Any personal property or
possession found during the abatement process outlined in §
11-16-6 shall first be stored as required by that section.
      (2)   In determining whether property is abandoned, enforcement personnel
shall, erring on the side of caution, evaluate the facts and circumstances
surrounding the item(s), including whether the personal property is unattended
and lacks objective signs of abandonment. Examples of objective signs of
abandonment include, but are not limited to, items located in gutters, placed
adjacent to trash receptacles, an empty and/or broken tent sitting by itself on
a sidewalk with no other belongings or a bag of clothes that is open and strewn
across a sidewalk.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, unattended personal property or
possessions that present a health and safety risk, such as items that are
unsanitary, soiled or verminous, may be summarily abated and destroyed.
Unattended personal property or possessions that are not summarily abated or
destroyed under this section may be disposed of or recycled by the City Manager
or donated for reuse.
§ 11-16-5 ENCAMPMENTS OR SLEEPING ON CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to camp or maintain an encampment in or
upon any public property, including in any street, right-of-way, parking lot,
sidewalk, easement, waterway, banks of a waterway or open space, unless
specifically authorized by the City Manager.
   (B)   No person may sleep on any public sidewalk, street, alleyway, median,
parkway or right-of-way, or in any pedestrian or vehicular entrance to public
or private property abutting a public sidewalk at any time as a matter of
individual and public safety.
   (C)   At all times, regardless of the availability of shelter space or beds,
it is unlawful for any person to camp, maintain an encampment or sleep, where
such activity poses:
      (1)   An immediate threat or an unreasonable risk of harm to any natural
person;
      (2)   An immediate threat or an unreasonable risk of harm to public
health or safety; or
      (3)   Disruption to any business, store, religious institution,
educational facility or government services.
   (D)   At all times, regardless of the availability of shelter space or beds,
it is unlawful for any person to camp, maintain an encampment or sleep in the
following locations:
      (1)   Within two blocks of a school that offers instruction on those
courses of study required by the California Education Code or that is
maintained pursuant to standards set by the California Board of Education;
provided that signs are posted prohibiting camping that are clearly visible to
pedestrians. School, for purposes of this section, does not include a
vocational or professional institution of higher education, including a
community or junior college, college or university;
      (2)   Within two blocks of any shelter provided that signs are posted
prohibiting camping that are clearly visible to pedestrians;
      (3)   In any open space, waterway or banks of a waterway;
      (4)   Within any transit hub or bus shelter, or along any rail tracks
provided that signs are posted prohibiting camping that are clearly visible to
pedestrians; and
      (5)   In any park where the City Manager determines there is a
substantial public health and safety risk and provided that signs are posted
prohibiting camping that are clearly visible to pedestrians. For purposes of
this division (D)(5), the definition of park does not include open space, as
defined in §
11-16-2.
§ 11-16-6 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The City Manager may remove personal property, camping paraphernalia
and all other property, contraband, litter and waste found at an encampment or
at a location where a person is engaged in unlawful camping in compliance with
the following procedures.
   (B)   (1)   A written notice of clean-up will be posted on each tent or
structure and in any other distinct areas of the encampment providing notice of
the date of clean-up and giving a minimum of 24 hours for persons to remove
their personal property. The written notice will include the following
statement, which may be updated by the City Manager as necessary to provide
accurate and current information:
“You must remove your belongings from the site within 24 hours. You should not
leave behind any belongings you want to keep. All belongings left behind will
be removed by the City of Laguna Niguel. The City will post an Impound Notice,
in English and Spanish, if belongings are stored during the clean-up process.
If you wish to minimize the risk of losing valued belongings, you should try to
keep those belongings on your person at all times, in a storage facility, or in
visible, sanitary, and safely accessible bags or bins.
If you think your belongings were stored, you can claim them by following the
directions on the Impound Notice after the clean-up is complete. Information
about how to claim your belongings is also available on the City’s website. You
may retrieve any stored belongings without being asked about your criminal
background or outstanding warrants.
You may access shelter or services, including access to storage for your
personal belongings, through the City of Laguna Niguel’s website or by calling
2-1-1 to connect to trained, multilingual information and referral
specialists.”
      (2)   After 24 hours, the City Manager is authorized to conduct abatement
of the site on the date posted on the notice of clean-up. If abatement is
delayed or rescheduled, the City Manager may conduct abatement within 72 hours
of the posted notice of clean-up without reposting a new notice of clean-up. If
abatement is delayed longer, the City Manager shall repost a notice of clean-up
with a new date.
   (C)   The City Manager shall follow these additional procedures when persons
are present at an encampment during abatement.
      (1)   When shelter is available, the City Manager shall provide any
person at an encampment with shelter and service information and direct them to
remove their belongings from the site. The City Manager shall evaluate
reasonable requests for additional time or assistance to remove items and may
accommodate those requests to the extent practicable.
      (2)   Any person who returns to an encampment during abatement shall be
allowed to remove their personal property from the site. Personal property left
behind will be deemed abandoned.
      (3)   Any person arrested for a criminal offense or an outstanding
warrant shall not be required to abandon personal property they identify as
their own upon their arrest. Unless the person requests the personal property
be discarded or entrusted to another, all personal property of apparent value
will be taken to the City Police Department for impoundment in accordance with
existing policy and procedure. Where the owner of the items cannot be readily
identified or discovered, the City Manager shall follow the abatement process
in this chapter.
   (D)   The City Manager will document and coordinate the abatement process as
follows:
      (1)   Photograph or video record the site before any abatement begins;
      (2)   Open backpacks, purses, suitcases and other small storage
containers to determine whether they contain items eligible for storage;
      (3)   Set out items contained in bags or suitcases, and photograph the
items;
      (4)   Photograph or video record all items to be stored;
      (5)   Photograph or video record the cleanup process;
      (6)   Photograph or video record the site after abatement has concluded;
and
      (7)   Create a written inventory of each eligible item to be stored,
including the date of removal, location it was found, the date of storage and a
general description of the property. Any stored items shall be kept in storage
at least 90 calendar days and then may be disposed of, recycled or reused
following the process in §
11-16-4.
   (E)   (1)   Unclaimed items found in abatement shall be eligible for storage
if:
         (a)   Circumstances indicate that the item belongs to a person;
         (b)   The item has apparent utility in its current condition and
circumstances; and
         (c)   The item can be safely retrieved from the site.
      (2)   Examples of items potentially eligible for storage include
identification and associated paperwork, medication stored in medication
bottles with identifying information, art, art supplies, musical instruments
and items that reasonably appear to have sentimental value in their current
condition. An item need not be in a new or perfect condition to have apparent
utility.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, an eligible item found during an
abatement shall be put into storage, unless it meets one the following
disqualifying conditions:
      (1)   Hazardous property, including items contaminated with human waste
or bodily fluid, soiled items likely to expose others to disease, animal waste,
or bugs, explosives, weapons, liquids, drug paraphernalia or mold;
      (2)   Property likely to become hazardous in storage, including
perishables, wet materials that might become moldy and items covered in mud;
      (3)   Property that is practically un-storable, due to large size, weight
or other similar characteristic;
      (4)   Contraband or stolen property; or
      (5)   Property on the City Manager’s current list of common types of
items that, in the experience of city staff, individuals regularly abandon
during abatement, and there is no contrary indication as to the specific item.
   (G)   After abatement has concluded and when eligible items are collected
and will be placed in storage, the City Manager shall post notices, in English
and Spanish, at the location of the abatement that includes information how a
person can claim stored items. Information about retrieval of stored items
shall also be available on the city’s website. A person may retrieve stored
items based on a description with sufficient specificity to demonstrate
ownership. A person may retrieve stored items without inquiry into the person’s
criminal background or outstanding warrants.
   (H)   In an expedited abatement, the City Manager shall follow the same
abatement and storage procedures in this section but shall post a notice of
clean-up, in English and Spanish, giving a minimum of three hours for all
persons to remove their personal property. The City Manager shall prioritize
and expedite the removal of an encampment if:
      (1)   The city receives direction from the county or other governmental
authority that abatement of the encampment is necessary to preserve public
health or safety, including to address known or suspected outbreaks of
diseases; or
      (2)   The City Manager observes or reasonably suspects the encampment
creates a condition that presents a significant risk of property damage, bodily
injury or death.
§ 11-16-7 ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter may be prosecuted as misdemeanors subject
to the fines and custody provisions in §§
1-1-19 and
1-1-22.
   (B)   The City Manager and Police Chief shall each have the authority to,
and may, issue administrative regulations in order to implement the
administration and enforcement of this chapter. Such regulations may include,
but not be limited to, processes for the provision of information regarding
housing and other social services prior to citation or arrest of individuals,
as well as a process for determining whether and how many shelter beds are
available at a given time. Such regulations shall be posted and maintained on
the City Police Department website.
TITLE 12: RESERVED
[Reserved]
TITLE 13: PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
Chapter
   1.   PARKS, RECREATIONAL AREAS AND RECREATION FACILITIES
***** CHAPTER 1: PARKS, RECREATIONAL AREAS AND RECREATION FACILITIES *****
Section
Subchapter 1. General Provisions
13-1-1   Applicability of chapter
13-1-2   Definitions
13-1-3   Use of parks, recreational areas and recreation facilities;
enforcement of chapter
13-1-4   Management of parks, recreational areas and recreation facilities
13-1-5—13-1-14   Reserved
Subchapter 2. Parks, Recreational Areas and Recreation Facilities in General
13-1-15   Hours
13-1-16   Fees
13-1-17   Reserved
13-1-18   Use of electric outlets
13-1-19   Vending and commercial solicitation
13-1-20   Revocation of use procedures
13-1-21—13-1-24   Reserved
13-1-25   Public picnics, meetings and public gatherings
13-1-26   Public address systems and amplified sound
13-1-27   Damaging vegetation or structures
13-1-28   Sanitation
13-1-29   Vehicles
13-1-30—13-1-34   Reserved
13-1-35   Alcoholic beverages
13-1-36   Airplanes, drones and rockets; prohibited
13-1-37   Firearms and other weapons; fireworks
13-1-38   Hunting and fishing
13-1-39   Domestic animals
13-1-40   Golf; prohibited
13-1-41   Archery; prohibited
13-1-42   Ice blocking; prohibited
13-1-43   Reserved
13-1-44   Organized play; permits required
13-1-45   Athletic activities
13-1-46   Use of trails closed areas
13-1-47   Livestock and horses
13-1-48   Erection of structures
13-1-49   Diving or jumping in water - generally
13-1-49.1   Landing in water
13-1-50   False drowning alarm
13-1-51   Removal of personal equipment
13-1-52   Performance of labor in parks
13-1-53   Prohibition on operation of motor vehicles, including motorized
scooters and e-bikes, on trails
13-1-54—13-1-62   Reserved
13-1-63   Fishing
13-1-64   Swimming
13-1-65   Fires
13-1-66—13-1-75   Reserved
Subchapter 3. Glider Flying Regulations for Lilly Shapell Park
13-1-76   Prohibition on flying without a permit
13-1-77   Definitions
13-1-78   Permits for flying gliders at the park
13-1-79   Signs and frequency board
13-1-80   Glider flying regulations
13-1-81   Prohibition of powered airplanes and drones
13-1-82   Implementation
13-1-83   Violations
13-1-84—13-1-93   Reserved
Subchapter 4. Camper Trucks and Trailers
13-1-94   Applicability of subchapter
13-1-95   Reserved
Subchapter 5. Skateboard Park Regulations
13-1-101   Definitions
13-1-102   Skateboard permit required
13-1-103   Skateboard park regulations
13-1-104   Permits, hours of operation, designated skate area
13-1-105   Posting of signs
13-1-106   Implementation and enforcement
13-1-107   Violations
13-1-108—13-1-110   Reserved
Subchapter 6. Healthy Parks Ordinance
13-1-111   Purpose
13-1-112   Title
13-1-113   Definitions
13-1-114   Prohibition of smoking in recreational areas
13-1-115   Prohibitions generally
13-1-116   Enforcement
Cross-reference:
Diving or jumping in water, see §§
11-9-44 and
11-9-45
Nudity in public, in parks or within public view, see §§
11-12-1 et seq.
**** SUBCHAPTER 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 13-1-1 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter shall, unless otherwise expressly provided, apply in all
parks, recreational areas and other publicly-owned or operated lands or waters
falling within the definition of those terms as set forth in §
13-1-2. However, the application of this chapter may be expressly negated by
ordinance or resolution of the City Council. Violation of this section shall be
an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-1) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 13-1-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer and every liquid or
solid containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for
beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed or combined with other
substances.
   CITY. The City of Laguna Niguel and the Parks and Recreation Department.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Parks and Recreation for the city.
   OPEN SPACE. Every city service area greenbelt, slope or park space not used
for recreation programs and activities.
   PARK. Every park, riding and hiking trail, city service area greenbelt and
city service area recreational facility, and every other public recreation
facility owned, managed or controlled by the city.
   PARK WATERS. Any lake, reservoir, pond, river or other body of water within
or flowing through a park.
   PERSON. Every person, firm, corporation, copartnership, joint venture,
association, social club or fraternal organization, or any other group or
combination acting as a unit.
   RECREATION FACILITY. Every public recreation facility owned, managed or
controlled by the city.
   RECREATIONAL AREAS. Public area to be used for recreation programs and
activities.
   REVOCATION OF USE. Revocation of a user’s permit or reservation or immediate
removal, suspension or expulsion of an individual from any public park or
recreational facility for a specified period in accordance with §
13-1-20.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-2) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
1-1-18
§ 13-1-3 USE OF PARKS, RECREATIONAL AREAS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES;
ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The privilege of any person to use the parks, recreational areas and
recreation facilities is hereby expressly conditioned upon compliance by that
person with the provisions of this chapter as they apply to such use. No person
shall disobey or violate any of the written rules, policies or regulations
issued by the Director governing the use and enjoyment by the public of any
park, park facility or open space.
   (B)   In addition to other penalties provided for in this code, violation of
any provision of this chapter shall subject the violator to revocation of use
from the park in which the violation occurs, and other parks if deemed
necessary, all in accordance with the procedures in §
13-1-20. This chapter shall be enforced by the Director and such of their
agents as they may designate to perform such duty, as well as by peace officers
having jurisdiction of any area in which a violation of any provision of this
chapter may take place.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-3) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 13-1-4 MANAGEMENT OF PARKS, RECREATIONAL AREAS AND RECREATION FACILITIES.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the orderly administration and
control of parks, recreational areas and recreational facilities within the
city. The Director is hereby instructed to administer this chapter to achieve
the maximum public benefit. The City Council further authorizes the Director to
enforce and administer the facilities use policies related to these sections.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-4) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 13-1-5—13-1-14 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 2. PARKS, RECREATIONAL AREAS AND RECREATION FACILITIES IN
GENERAL ****
§ 13-1-15 HOURS.
   All parks, recreational areas and recreation facilities shall be open to the
public during such hours as may be established by resolution of the City
Council. No person shall enter or remain in any of the recreational areas at
any time other than during such hours as the recreational area is open to the
public.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-15) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 13-1-16 FEES.
   All persons and groups using parking or other facilities of recreational
areas shall, prior to such use, pay such fees and deposits as may be
established by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-16) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 13-1-17 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 13-1-18 USE OF ELECTRIC OUTLETS.
   No person shall use electric outlets within any recreational area without
first reserving or paying such fees as may be prescribed by resolution of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-18) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 13-1-19 VENDING AND COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION.
   No person shall solicit primarily for commercial purposes in any manner, or
sell or offer for sale any goods, services, wares, merchandise or food
products, or otherwise engage in sidewalk vending, without a sidewalk vending
permit issued pursuant to Title 5, Chapter 7, Subchapter 2. No person shall
distribute or pass out any primarily commercial handbill or advertising
material without a written permit from the Parks and Recreation Department.
However, this section does not apply to any concession operated under authority
granted by the City Council, or to any activity specifically exempted by order
or resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-19) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 2020-206, § 9,
passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 2020-207, § 8, passed 8-4-2020)
§ 13-1-20 REVOCATION OF USE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A person is subject to ejection from the park when the following
conditions occur:
      (1)   The person is in violation of a park rule or regulation, including
any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   The person has been warned in a manner that is reasonably
calculated to reach that person that ejection may result from any further
violation;
      (3)   After receiving such warning, a further violation occurs; and
      (4)   No lesser sanction reasonably appears to suffice. However, where a
violation is of such magnitude or seriousness of violence, no warnings will be
necessary prior to revocation of use. This includes engaging in conduct that
involves violence, poses an immediate threat to public safety or creates a
hazardous condition requiring immediate revocation of use.
   (B)   The period of revocation of use shall be determined by the Director
and such of their agents as they may designate to perform such duty, as well as
peace officers having jurisdiction. Revocation of use in no case is to be for
less than 24 hours or for more than one year.
   (C)   Prior to revocation of use of any person, the reasons for such
revocation of use shall be explained to such person, and the person shall be
given an opportunity to state any reason they may have why they should not be
evicted.
   (D)   Any person evicted shall be informed of the period of time for which
they are evicted and whether or not such revocation of use applies to any other
city facility than the one from which they are evicted.
   (E)   In the case of any revocation of use for a period in excess of 24
hours, the person evicted shall be given an opportunity to appeal such
revocation of use to the Director, who may uphold, modify or vacate the
revocation of use order. The decision of the Director shall be final.
   (F)   Any person who has been evicted from a city recreational facility and
who does not depart forthwith, or who departs but returns prior to the
expiration of the revocation of use period, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-20) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§§ 13-1-21—13-1-24 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 13-1-25 PUBLIC PICNICS, MEETINGS AND PUBLIC GATHERINGS.
   The Director shall designate the areas in each park wherein picnics,
meetings or other organized public gatherings may be held. The Director shall
maintain a calendar with respect to each such designated area, and on such
calendar show each such picnic, meeting or other organized gathering involving
more than 100 persons to be held in such areas. No person shall cause any
picnic, meeting or other public gathering involving the attendance of more than
100 persons to be held in any park without first notifying the Director and
obtaining a written permit from them. The Director, or designee, shall issue
the permit upon request in all cases where prior permits have not exhausted the
capacity of the area sought to be used.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-25) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 13-1-26 PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEMS AND AMPLIFIED SOUND.
   (A)   No person shall set up, use, operate or maintain a public address
system or amplified sound within any recreational area, except in those areas
specifically designated, nor shall any person set up, use, operate or maintain
a public address system or amplified sound without first obtaining a written
permit.
   (B)   The Director, or designee, is expressly given the authority to
determine the maximum amplification permissible in areas designated consistent
with other persons’ enjoyment of the recreational area facilities.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-26) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 13-1-27 DAMAGING VEGETATION OR STRUCTURES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person shall pick flowers,
foliage, berries or fruit, or cut, carve, hack, break, dig up, remove, deface
or in any way mutilate or injure any wood, leaf mold, rock, gravel, sand, tree,
shrub, plant, fern, grass, turf, mold, railing, seat, building, barbecue stove,
sign, fence, post, structure, toilet, lavatory, restroom, equipment or any
other object in or adjacent to any park, except as expressly authorized in this
chapter. No person shall paint, post, attach or affix any handbill, dodger,
notice, sign or advertisement upon or to any bridge, fence, building or other
property within any recreational area or any tree situated in any recreational
area, and no person shall deface, mar or disfigure any bridge, fence or other
structure within such park and/or recreational area or any tree situated in any
recreational area, by painting, cutting, scratching or breaking the structure
or tree or attaching or affixing anything thereto.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-27) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Protection of city property, see §§
11-8-1 et seq.
§ 13-1-28 SANITATION.
   (A)   Containers for garbage or rubbish. No person shall leave, deposit,
drop or scatter any bottles, broken glass, ashes, wastepaper, cans or other
rubbish, garbage, litter, refuse or offal matter in any recreational area,
except in designated containers. No person shall deposit any such matter in the
public toilets of any recreational area.
   (B)   Washing of clothes and utensils. No person shall wash clothing,
dishes, cooking utensils or other utensils used in connection with the
preparation or serving of food in any park, recreational area or recreation
facility, except at places designated by the Director and provided for such
purpose.
   (C)   Discharge of sewage. No person shall discharge any human or animal
excreta or wastewater from a toilet or holding tank. Public toilets in
recreational areas are provided for the protection of the health of the general
public, and shall be used when so provided.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-28) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 13-1-29 VEHICLES.
   (A)   Speed. No person shall drive any vehicle in any recreational area at a
speed that is greater than is reasonable or prudent, having due regard for the
traffic and traffic pattern and the surface and width of the roadway, and in no
event in excess of ten mph unless a greater speed is posted.
   (B)   Parking. No person shall park any vehicle, except in designated
parking areas; however, the Director is hereby authorized to permit parking
along roads and in undeveloped areas within the recreational areas when such
parking will not interfere with the operation of the recreational area.
   (C)   Erection of speed, traffic and parking signs. The Director is
authorized and directed to erect and maintain signs at locations they deem
appropriate indicating the speed limits established by the City Council for
parks along the roadways or streets therein. The Director is also authorized to
designate parking areas and traffic patterns and to erect and maintain signs
indicating such areas and patterns.
   (D)   Removal of vehicles. Vehicles may be removed and stored at the owner’s
expense by the Director or such of their employees as they may designate or by
peace officers under either of the following circumstances: when the vehicle
has been parked for a period of time of more than 24 hours in a location where
parking is prohibited and appropriate signs have been posted.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-29) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Highways, rights-of-way and vehicles, see Title 7
§§ 13-1-30—13-1-34 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 13-1-35 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   No person shall, within the limits of any park, open space or
recreational area, consume any alcoholic beverage. Any alcoholic beverage in a
person’s possession shall be stored in a closed vehicular trunk or storage
compartment.
   (B)   This section shall not apply within any portion of any recreational
facility which may be so designated by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-35) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 13-1-36 AIRPLANES, DRONES AND ROCKETS; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall fly a motor driven or fuel-propelled airplane, drone,
rocket, missile or similar thing within any park or recreational area in the
city, except at such places as may be designated for such use by the Director
of Parks and Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-36) (Ord. 95-82, § 1, passed 6-6-1995)
§ 13-1-37 FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS; FIREWORKS.
   No person shall have any fireworks, firearms, air gun, BB gun, slingshot or
bow or hunting arrow or any other weapon in their possession or in their
vehicle other than in a closed trunk, storage compartment or other area
separated from the passenger section of the vehicle, in any recreation area,
nor shall any person discharge any weapon upon or into any park, nor shall any
person discharge any fireworks within city boundaries; provided, however, that
the Director may designate areas in which such activity is permitted.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-37) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Firearms and dangerous weapons, see §§
11-2-1 et seq.
§ 13-1-38 HUNTING AND FISHING.
   All recreational areas and open space are sanctuaries for wildlife of every
sort. No person except persons in the performance of their official duties
shall hunt, kill, wound, frighten or capture any wild bird or land animal in
any recreational area.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-38) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 13-1-39 DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person having custody of a cat, dog or other domestic animal shall
allow such animal in any recreational area without the ability to produce
evidence that the animal is currently licensed as required by any other
provisions of law and unless such animal is restrained by a substantial leash
not to exceed six feet in length and is in the charge of a person competent to
restrain such animal; provided that no person having the charge of any dog,
except a blind person with their guide dog, shall permit such dog under any
circumstances to be within such recreational areas as may be determined by
resolution of the City Council, unless the dog is restrained and enclosed in a
car, cage or similar enclosure.
   (B)   This section shall not prevent the city or its lessees from holding
supervised public events in such recreational areas in which domestic animals
participate, nor shall it prohibit the Director from issuing permits pursuant
to §
13-1-25 for group activities wherein dogs will be under the responsible care of
a person while not restrained by a leash or enclosed in a car, cage or similar
enclosure while participating in a permitted canine event.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-39) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see Title 10
§ 13-1-40 GOLF; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall play, practice or in any way engage in the game of golf in
any park or recreational area in the city, except at the times and places that
may be designated by the Director of Parks and Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-40) (Ord. 95-82, § 2, passed 6-6-1995)
§ 13-1-41 ARCHERY; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall engage in archery in any park or recreational area in the
city, except at the times and places that may be designated by the Director of
Parks and Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-41) (Ord. 95-82, § 3, passed 6-6-1995)
§ 13-1-42 ICE BLOCKING; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall engage in ice blocking in any park or recreational area in
the city. ICE BLOCKING is defined to mean an activity where a person uses a
block of ice or other device to slide down a hill or slope.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-42) (Ord. 95-82, § 4, passed 6-6-1995)
§ 13-1-43 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 13-1-44 ORGANIZED PLAY; PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or organization shall participate in any personal/group
instruction or organized play on any park, soccer field, baseball field,
softball field or other recreational facility owned, operated or controlled by
the city without first receiving a permit which is issued by the Director of
Parks and Recreation and which authorize the organized play at the particular
site.
   (B)   The term organized play as used in this section shall mean ten or more
persons engaging in a team sport athletic contest, such as, but not limited to,
soccer, baseball, softball, football, basketball or volleyball.
   (C)   In determining whether or not to issue a permit, the Director of Parks
and Recreation, or designee, shall consider the following and any other factors
they deem relevant:
      (1)   The suitability of the particular facility for the proposed play;
      (2)   The effect of the activity on the neighborhood; and
      (3)   The limitation on the availability of the facility for spontaneous
recreational use by the public caused by the permitted use of the facility.
   (D)   The Director of Parks and Recreation, or designee, may place such
reasonable conditions on the issuance of a permit as they deem necessary and
proper to protect the public welfare, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Restrictions on the number, age and other designations of persons
who may participate in such permitted play;
      (2)   Restrictions on the season, days of the week and time of day that
the particular facility may be used by the permittee;
      (3)   Provisions for the maintenance by the permittee of the sanitation,
cleanliness and appearance of the facility;
      (4)   Provisions for security and the maintenance of law and order,
including compliance with noise, parking, safety and other appropriate
regulations;
      (5)   Restrictions on the installation of apparatus or modification in
any manner, either temporary or permanent, by the permittee to the sports field
or adjacent structures;
      (6)   Provisions for the posting of liability insurance by the permittee;
and
      (7)   Provisions for the posting of a cleaning deposit by the permittees,
from which the said Director, or designee, may from time to time withdraw funds
as an off-set to the cost to the city of cleaning the facility and
accommodations thereon used or usable by the permittee.
   (E)   In the event that any of the conditions of the permit are violated by
the permittee or for other good cause shown, the Director of Parks and
Recreation, or designee, may suspend or revoke the permit (and retain the
deposit in whole or in part, if the facts support such action) after notice to
the permittee.
   (F)   When a permit is issued for organized play at a park, soccer field,
baseball field, softball field or other recreational facility pursuant to this
section for use of said facility at a particular time, and that facility is
being used by one or more persons who do not hold a permit to use the facility
at that particular time, the non-permit holders shall immediately vacate the
facility upon arrival of the permit holders and request by the permit holders
that the non-permit holders vacate the facility. Failure to vacate the facility
is a violation of the section and shall result in an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-44) (Ord. 95-82, § 5, passed 6-6-1995)
§ 13-1-45 ATHLETIC ACTIVITIES.
   No person shall conduct or participate in any sport or in any organized
athletic activities within any recreational area other than in such areas as
may be designated for such sports, games or athletic activities, or in any
areas where the Director has posted signs prohibiting such activities.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-45) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 13-1-46 USE OF TRAILS CLOSED AREAS.
   (A)   Designation and use. The Director may designate horseback riding and
hiking trails in parks. They may also designate closed areas where entry is
prohibited in the interest of public convenience or safety. No person may leave
a designated trail in any park on foot or on horseback or otherwise, other than
for law enforcement, lifesaving or emergency purposes or for park maintenance,
at other than designated entry or exit points. No person shall enter on foot or
on horseback or otherwise any area in any park which the Director has posted as
a closed area.
   (B)   Trails along or through private property. No person within any
recreational area or open space shall enter on or go upon the lands of another,
under cultivation or enclosed by a fence, for any purpose whatever, without the
consent in writing of the owner of the premises or of the person entitled to
the use and occupancy thereof, except in the lawful performance of an official
duty.
   (C)   Closing of gates. No person opening a closed gate shall proceed beyond
the gate without first closing it.
   (D)   Closure. Either the City Manager or designee may close any park, field
or other recreational area or facility when such an area or facility is filled
to capacity, a hazardous condition poses potential danger to citizens, city
employees or property, it needs to be reconstructed, renovated, refurbished,
repaired or maintained, or the area or facility needs to be closed because of
inclement weather and the need to avoid damage that would occur by use of the
area or facility during or after the inclement weather. Any such closure shall
be for the duration that the area or facility is filled to capacity; the
existence of the hazardous condition; the times required for the
reconstruction, renovation, refurbishment, repair or maintenance; or the
existence of the impact on the area or facility by inclement weather, as
determined by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-46) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990; Ord. 95-82, § 6,
passed 6-6-1995)
§ 13-1-47 LIVESTOCK AND HORSES.
   (A)   Saddle and pack animals. No person having custody or control of a
horse or other saddle or pack animal shall allow such animal in any part of a
recreational area, except upon roads or trails designated for equestrian
traffic. No person shall ride or drive any horse or other animal which is not
well-broken and under the control of such person. No person shall ride any
saddle animal in any manner that endangers any other person or animal. No
person shall allow their saddle or pack animal to stand unattended or
improperly tied.
   (B)   Livestock. Livestock are not permitted in city parks, recreational
areas or open space.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-47) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see Title 10
§ 13-1-48 ERECTION OF STRUCTURES.
   No person shall erect structures within any recreational or open space area
without the authorization of the Director.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-48) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 13-1-49 DIVING OR JUMPING IN WATER - GENERALLY.
   No person shall dive or jump into any body of water in any recreational area
from any pier, bridge, rock or precipice other than at those places designated
and posted for diving or jumping by the Director, as authorized by resolution
of the City Council. Violation of this section shall be an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-49) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Diving or jumping in water, see §§
11-9-44 and
11-9-45
§ 13-1-49.1 LANDING IN WATER.
   No person shall land in any body of water in any recreational area after
having jumped or dived from any pier, bridge, rock or precipice above such body
of water, other than at those places designated and posted for diving and
jumping by the Director, as authorized by resolution of the City Council.
Violation of this section shall be an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-49.1) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 13-1-50 FALSE DROWNING ALARM.
   No person in any recreational area shall give or cause a false alarm of
drowning to be given in any manner. Any person who knows that an alarm is false
shall immediately notify the guard to whom the alarm was given of its falsity.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-50) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 13-1-51 REMOVAL OF PERSONAL EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall allow any equipment over which they have custody or control
to remain at any recreational area during any time that the recreational area
is closed, unless authorized by the Director. Any items left over may be
removed.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-51) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 13-1-52 PERFORMANCE OF LABOR IN PARKS.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those persons employed or contracted by the
city, shall perform any labor in or upon any park. Labor includes, but is not
limited to, installing, taking up or replacing soil, turf, ground, pavement,
structures, trees, shrubs, plants or flowers.
      (2)   Labor shall only be performed under the authorization, supervision
or control of the Director of Parks and Recreation and the Director of Public
Works.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, labor may be
performed by persons who are not employees of the city in situations where such
persons are volunteers who are working on city facilities, such as the
Botanical Preserve and the city’s athletic fields, including baseball, softball
and soccer fields. Such volunteer labor may only be performed when, prior to
commencement of the work, written authorization for the work is given by the
Director of Parks and Recreation or the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-52) (Ord. 95-82, § 7, passed 6-6-1995)
§ 13-1-53 PROHIBITION ON OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES, INCLUDING MOTORIZED
SCOOTERS AND E-BIKES, ON TRAILS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the California Vehicle Code, § 23127, the operation of
unauthorized motor vehicles, including motorized scooters and e-bikes, on
hiking and horseback riding trails and bicycle paths is prohibited, and the
City Director is authorized and directed to take all actions necessary,
including posting of warning signs, to implement the prohibition on operation
of unauthorized motor vehicles on hiking and horseback riding trails and
bicycle paths set forth in that section.
   (B)   Pursuant to the California Vehicle Code, §§ 21230 and 21225, the
operation of motorized scooters and e-bikes, as defined in the California
Vehicle Code, § 407.5, is prohibited on hiking and horseback riding trails and
bicycle paths and trails and bikeways located in the city.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, bicycle paths and trails and bikeways do
not include bicycle lanes on streets.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-53) (Ord. 2005-139, § 2, passed 3-15-2005)
§§ 13-1-54—13-1-62 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 13-1-63 FISHING.
   No person shall fish or practice fly casting in non-navigable park waters of
any park in areas other than those designated by the Director for such
activities.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-63) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 13-1-64 SWIMMING.
   No person shall swim, bathe or enter in or into any park waters other than
those waters designated by the Director for such swimming, bathing or entering.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-64) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 13-1-65 FIRES.
   (A)   Campfire location and permit. The authority of the Director to permit
campfires within recreational areas is limited to those areas where fires are
not restricted by state and local fire prevention officials.
   (B)   Extinguishing fires. Each person using a BBQ in any park shall, when
the fire is no longer needed, extinguish the fire by thoroughly wetting the
combustible material and covering it with sand or dirt.
   (D)   Fire prevention. Every person shall make the suppression and
prevention of fire their first consideration while using any park area. Any
negligent use of combustible materials is prohibited. Any person learning of an
unauthorized fire in any park shall extinguish it if they can do so without
endangering themself, or, if they cannot extinguish it, shall promptly
communicate the position of the fire to park officials.
   (E)   Smoking. Smoking is prohibited in all parks. No person shall smoke in
any park, recreation area or open space as this is a violation of this section
and will not result in an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-65) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Campfires, see §
11-3-88
   Fire regulations, see §§
11-3-85 et seq.
§§ 13-1-66—13-1-75 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 3. GLIDER FLYING REGULATIONS FOR LILLY SHAPELL PARK ****
§ 13-1-76 PROHIBITION ON FLYING WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   No person shall fly gliders at Lilly Shapell Park unless and until they have
received from the city a permit to fly gliders at the park pursuant to this
subchapter. No person who has had their permit suspended or revoked shall fly
gliders at the park until and unless that permit is reinstated.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-76) (Ord. 2002-123, § 2, passed 12-17-2002)
§ 13-1-77 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMA. The Academy of Model Aeronautics.
   CITY. The City of Laguna Niguel Parks and Recreation Department.
   COMBAT FLYING. The flying of any glider in such a manner as to intentionally
interfere with another glider, cause damage to another glider or cause another
glider to crash.
   DIRECTOR. The City of Laguna Niguel Director of Recreation.
   FLYING PLAN. The map of the park and surrounding area that depicts the areas
where gliders may be flown and the areas for take off and landing of gliders.
   FREQUENCY BOARD. The board that is required by this subchapter to be located
at the park and upon which frequencies that may be used for glider flying and
flying regulations are required to be displayed.
   GLIDER. A model airplane or aircraft that is flown by using wind currents
and is controlled by the remote control operation of the wings and tail. The
term GLIDER does not include any airplane or aircraft that is driven by a
propeller or is propelled by a gasoline or electric engine or motor.
   PARK. The Lilly Shapell Park, which is located in Hillcrest Estates in the
City of Laguna Niguel.
   PERMIT. The permit issued by the city to allow flying of gliders at the
park.
   PERSON. Both the singular and the plural and shall also mean and include a
person or an individual.
   PILOT. Any person who is flying a glider at the park.
   RANGE CHECK. Ensuring that the remote control for a glider is working
properly and that there is control over the flying surfaces of the glider.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-77) (Ord. 2002-123, § 2, passed 12-17-2002)
§ 13-1-78 PERMITS FOR FLYING GLIDERS AT THE PARK.
   (A)   (1)   The Director shall establish procedures and requirements for the
issuance, suspension and revocation of permits to fly gliders at the park.
      (2)   That process shall include the following:
         (a)   Persons desiring to fly gliders at the park being required to
submit to the city an application for a permit to fly gliders;
         (b)   The Director appointing a committee of at least three qualified
and experienced glider pilots to review and make recommendations regarding the
applications for flying permits;
         (c)   The committee preparing a procedure for:
            1.   The review and issuance or denial of applications for permits;
and
            2.   The suspension or revocation of such permits.
         (d)   The procedure being subject to the approval of the Director;
         (e)   Each committee member being a member of AMA, having at least
three years experience flying remote controlled gliders and at least one year
experience flying such gliders at the park;
         (f)   The procedure for qualifying a glider pilot including the
applicants demonstrating by actual glider flying that they have the requisite
qualifications and experience;
         (g)   The decision as to whether to issue a permit to an applicant
being made by the Director, but the Director not being able to issue a permit
for an applicant unless the Committee has determined that the applicant is
qualified to fly gliders at the park;
         (h)   The suspension or revocation of permits issued to persons who do
not comply with the regulations contained in this subchapter; and
         (i)   The establishment of a procedure by the Committee to make
recommendations to the Director on the suspension or revocation of permits with
the procedure including an opportunity for the pilot to have a hearing before
the Committee and for that Committee, after holding such a hearing, to make a
recommendation to the Director with the decision on suspension or revocation
being made by the Director.
   (B)   The members of the Committee shall monitor the flying of model gliders
at the park and the compliance by pilots with the requirements of the
regulations contained in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-78) (Ord. 2002-123, § 2, passed 12-17-2002)
§ 13-1-79 SIGNS AND FREQUENCY BOARD.
   (A)   The Director, or designee, shall post at the park at least one sign
which lists the regulations contained in this subchapter. The sign shall be
posted on or near the frequency board and at such other locations as deemed
appropriate by the Director. The sign shall also contain a statement to the
effect that glider pilots by flying gliders at the Lilly Shapell Park are
agreeing to comply with all of the posted regulations.
   (B)   The Director, or designee, shall provide, at an appropriate location
at the park, a frequency board on which the potential frequencies that may be
used for remote control glider operation are posted with a mechanism that
allows for showing which frequencies are currently in use. The frequency board
shall be available for posting of messages regarding glider operations and
related activities at the park.
   (C)   The Director, or designee, shall maintain the sign and the frequency
board in good order and keep them current as to changes in flying regulations.
   (D)   The Director, or designee, shall cause to be prepared a flying plan
which shall depict the areas at the park where gliders may be flown, including
the take off and landing areas. The flying plan shall also depict pilot
stations. The flying plan shall be in compliance with the regulations contained
in this subchapter. The Director shall have the flying plan posted on the
frequency board with the posted flying regulations.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-79) (Ord. 2002-123, § 2, passed 12-17-2002)
§ 13-1-80 GLIDER FLYING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All persons who fly gliders at the park shall comply with each and
every one of the following regulations. A permit applicant’s ability to comply
with these regulations shall be used in determining the issuance or denial of a
permit to fly at the park. A permittee’s unwillingness or inability to comply
with these regulations shall be used in determining the suspension or
revocation of a permit to fly at the park.
      (1)   Gliders may only be flown over the back slope of the park and the
valley areas to the west of the park.
      (2)   Gliders may not be flown over any residences.
      (3)   Gliders may only take off and land in the designated take off and
landing areas shown on the posted flying plan.
      (4)   Pilots shall take all actions necessary to avoid gliders striking
or landing on houses or landing in backyards of houses.
      (5)   Gliders shall not be flown over the trail that runs through the
park or over the east side of the trail, except when landing gliders.
      (6)   Gliders shall not be landed on the grass area of the park if there
are park users in that area or if trail users are in the vicinity of the grass
area. If a glider must be landed when people are in those areas, the glider
shall be landed in the landscaped area located below and on the west side of
the trail.
      (7)   Only five gliders may be flown at a time and if five gliders are
being flown from the park, no person shall fly a glider at the park until one
of the flying gliders is landed.
      (8)   When flying gliders, pilots must be at one of the pilot stations
which are designated on the posted flying plan.
      (9)   Before flying a glider at the park, each pilot must comply with the
following.
         (a)   Pilots must have in their possession the permit required by this
subchapter and place that permit on the frequency board for the frequency that
they are using to fly the glider.
         (b)   Pilots must have liability insurance in the amount of at least
$1,000,000 to cover their activities in flying gliders and they must have, at
all times that they fly gliders at the park, proof of such insurance with them.
         (c)   Pilots shall only use frequencies that are not already being
used as demonstrated by the frequency board. Pilots shall only use radio
controlled frequencies allowed by the Federal Communications Commission.
         (d)   No person shall turn on a transmitter until their permit is
placed on the frequency board and an unused frequency is obtained.
         (e)   Pilots shall, before every glider flight, check battery voltage
of the batteries in the glider and the remote control device for the glider,
and make sure that the batteries have sufficient power for the duration of the
flight.
         (f)   Pilots shall range check all new airplanes before they are
flown.
      (10)   If a glider lands on private property, no person shall go onto
that property to retrieve the glider, unless that person first obtains
permission from the property owner to retrieve the glider. If permission to
retrieve a glider is refused, then the pilot shall contact the County Sheriff’s
Department and request assistance in obtaining the return of the glider.
      (11)   Pilots shall not engage in combat flying at the park.
      (12)   Launching gliders by means of rubber bands or any other mechanical
device at the park is prohibited.
   (B)   Glider pilots shall be responsible for any damages that they cause by
the flying of gliders, including, but not limited to, interfering with the
remote control signal to another glider, striking another glider, striking or
landing on the houses or backyards of houses surrounding the park or causing
damage to the improvements at the park. In the event any incidents of a glider
causing property damage or personal injury occur, the pilot of the glider shall
provide, if requested, their name, address, telephone number and insurance
information to anyone who is injured or whose property is damaged.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-80) (Ord. 2002-123, § 2, passed 12-17-2002)
§ 13-1-81 PROHIBITION OF POWERED AIRPLANES AND DRONES.
   The flying of electric or gasoline powered model airplanes, drones or
aircraft at the park is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-81) (Ord. 2002-123, § 2, passed 12-17-2002)
§ 13-1-82 IMPLEMENTATION.
   The City Director, or designee, is directed and authorized to adopt and
promulgate regulations which are consistent with this subchapter to implement
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-82) (Ord. 2002-123, § 2, passed 12-17-2002)
§ 13-1-83 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating §§
13-1-76 or
13-1-81 shall be subject to citation and prosecution for violation of this
code. Violation of the regulations set forth in §
13-1-80 shall not be subject to citation or prosecution, but shall be used as
provided for in §
13-1-78 to determine issuance, denial, suspension and revocation of the permit
required to be obtained to fly gliders at the park.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-83) (Ord. 2002-123, § 2, passed 12-17-2002)
§§ 13-1-84—13-1-93 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 4. CAMPER TRUCKS AND TRAILERS ****
§ 13-1-94 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter shall apply to all public land owned, operated or maintained
by the city.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-94) (Ord. 90-11, § 2, passed 3-6-1990)
§ 13-1-95 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 5. SKATEBOARD PARK REGULATIONS ****
§ 13-1-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED BICYCLES.
      (1)   Bicycles that meet the following restrictions and requirements.
         (a)   Only bicycles that are BMX type bicycles or bicycles that are
intended to be used for jumping or riding on dirt, streets or in skate parks
are approved bicycles.
         (b)   Bicycles that are of the following types or are intended for the
following purposes are not approved bicycles: downhill, cross country,
mountain, trail, tandem, 10 speeds, 29ers or similar types of bicycles, track
or fixed gear bicycles, road bicycles, beach cruisers, folding bicycles,
motorized bicycles, electric bicycles, tricycles, unicycles, big wheels, stair
cycles, free riding bicycles, trailers, sidecars or any type of bicycle that is
not a BMX type bicycle or is not intended to be used for jumping or riding on
dirt, streets or in skate parks.
         (c)   Only bicycles with a wheel size of 26 inches in diameter or less
are approved.
         (d)   Bicycles must be hard tail (have no rear suspension). Bicycles
with front suspension are only approved if their front suspension is limited to
100 millimeters of travel or less.
         (e)   Bicycles may not be faulty, damaged or broken or unsafe or unfit
for use at the park.
      (2)   City staff is authorized to implement and apply the regulations and
restrictions in this section to determine whether bicycles are approved
bicycles. Further, city staff is authorized to determine whether bicycles are
unsafe or unfit for use at the park. City staff’s determination as to whether a
bicycle is or is not in compliance with the regulations and restrictions or
whether a bicycle is unsafe or unfit for use at the park shall be final.
   BIKE or BIKING. To ride, operate or use a bicycle.
   CITY. The City of Laguna Niguel.
   DIRECTOR. The City of Laguna Niguel Director of Parks and Recreation.
   IN-LINE SKATES. Also known as rollerblades, which are footwear containing
four or more axles mounted in a straight line extending generally from or
behind the heel of the footwear to or in front of the toe of the footwear with
a single wheel attached to each axle.
   PARK. The Laguna Niguel Skateboard Park located on Alicia Parkway, Laguna
Niguel, California, and it includes the skate area at the park.
   PERMIT. The permit issued by the city to allow skating, skateboarding and/or
biking at the park.
   PERSON. Both the singular and the plural and shall also mean and include a
person or individual.
   SKATE or SKATEBOARD. To ride, operate or use skates or a skateboard.
   SKATE AREA. The area of the park specifically designated pursuant to this
subchapter for skating, skateboarding and/or biking.
   SKATEBOARD. A board of any material, which has wheels attached to it and
which, if propelled or moved by human gravitational or mechanical power, and to
which there is not fixed any device or mechanism to turn or control the wheels.
   SKATES. Any footwear or device, which may be attached to the footwear, to
which wheels are attached and such wheels may be used to aid the wearer in
moving or propulsion. SKATES includes rollerskates, in-line skates and
rollerblades.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-101) (Ord. 2010-162, § 2, passed 1-4-2011)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2010-162, § 2, adopted 1-4-2011, amended Subchapter 6 in its entirety
to read as herein set out. Former Subchapter 6, §§ 13-1-101 through 13-1-107,
pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from Ord. 2003-127, § 2,
adopted 1-21-2003.
§ 13-1-102 SKATEBOARD PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall skate, skateboard or bike at the park unless and until they
have received from the city a permit pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-102) (Ord. 2010-162, § 2, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 13-1-103 SKATEBOARD PARK REGULATIONS.
   To ensure the enjoyment, safety and proper use of the park, all persons
using the park, including all persons skating, skateboarding or biking at the
park, shall comply with each and every one of the regulations as outlined in
the City Council Ordinance No. 2010-162 and the skatepark facilities use
policy.
   (A)   No person shall skate, skateboard or bike, unless that person is
wearing a helmet designed for skateboarding, in-line skating and/or biking uses
with a chin strap; elbow pads designed for skateboarding, in-line skating and/
or biking uses with plastic elbow caps; and knee pads designed for
skateboarding, in-line skating and/or biking uses with plastic knee caps.
   (B)   No person shall skate, skateboard or bike, unless all the required
equipment is in good repair at all times during use.
   (C)   No person shall ride, use or operate a bicycle that is not an approved
bicycle as defined in §
13-1-101.
   (D)   No person shall enter or be upon the skate area at any time other than
during the posted hours of operation for the park. No person shall enter or be
upon the skate area at any time that the park is closed or when city staff has
closed the skate area.
   (E)   No person shall skate, skateboard or bike anywhere at the park, except
in the skate area.
   (F)   (1)   No person shall ride, operate or utilize in the skate area any
device other than a skateboard, skates or bicycle.
      (2)   Prohibited devices include, but are not limited to, scooters,
razors and motorized vehicles.
   (G)   Spectators are not allowed in the skate area. No person shall enter or
be upon the skate area, unless that person is actively skateboarding, skating
or biking in accordance with these regulations.
   (H)   No person shall place any additional piece of equipment, obstacle,
apparatus or other material, including, but not limited to, ramps, jumps or
rails, within the skate area, and no person shall use any such additional piece
of equipment, obstacle, apparatus or other material.
   (I)   No person shall skate, skateboard or bike when the surface of the
skate area is wet or other conditions exist which adversely effect the safety
of skateboarders, skaters and/or bikers.
   (J)   There shall be no simultaneous biking and skating or skateboarding. No
person shall skate or skateboard in the skate area during the time it is
designated for biking and no person shall bike in the skate area during the
time it is designated for skating and skateboarding.
   (K)   No person shall use, consume or have within their custody or control,
food or other beverages within the skate area.
   (L)   No person shall use, consume or have within their custody or control,
alcohol, tobacco products or illegal drugs at the park.
   (M)   No person shall enter or be upon the skate area under the influence of
alcoholic beverages or illegal drugs or with their motor skills or judgment
impaired as the result of any drugs.
   (N)   No person shall use or possess glass containers, bottles or other
breakable glass products within the park.
   (O)   No person shall use a portable or personal radio, stereo, CD player or
similar device in the skate area. No person shall use headphones, ear buds or
similar devices in the skate area.
   (Q)   No person shall engage in graffiti, tagging or other defacing of the
park.
   (R)   All persons using the park area must place trash in receptacles or
containers provided by the city.
   (S)   When determined by city staff that a skater, skateboarder or biker has
violated one or more of the regulations set forth in this section, that person,
when so directed by city staff, shall have their permit to use the skatepark
revoked.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-103) (Ord. 2010-162, § 2, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 13-1-104 PERMITS, HOURS OF OPERATION, DESIGNATED SKATE AREA.
   (A)   The Director shall establish procedures for the issuance, suspension
and revocation of permits to skate, skateboard and/or bike at the park.
      (1)   Persons desiring to skate, skateboard and/or bike at the park
paying the fees that have been adopted by the City Council;
      (2)   Permits being suspended or revoked for skaters, skateboarders or
bikers that fail to comply with the regulations set forth in §
13-1-103.
   (B)   The Director shall designate and demarcate the skate area, which will
be the area of the park used for skating, skateboarding and/or biking.
   (C)   The Director shall determine when the skate area is to be used for
skating and skateboarding and when the skate area is to be used for biking.
   (D)   The hours of operation for the park have been established by the City
Council and may be changed in the future by Director of Parks and Recreation,
or designee.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-104) (Ord. 2010-162, § 2, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 13-1-105 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   The Director shall post signs at the entrance of the park, at the
entrance to the skate area and at other locations at the park the Director
determines are appropriate.
   (B)   The content of the signs shall be determined by the Director, but the
signs shall generally cover the regulations in this subchapter and have the
following information and statements:
      (1)   To skate, skateboard and/or bike at the park, a permit must first
be obtained from the city;
      (2)   Helmets, kneepads and elbow pads are required to be worn at all
times while skating, skateboarding or biking;
      (3)   The failure to wear helmets, kneepads and elbow pads will subject
violators to citation and prosecution under this code;
      (4)   Skating, skateboarding and biking are hazardous recreation
activities. Skaters, skateboarders and bikers skate and bike at their own risk
of being injured. The city will not be liable for injuries;
      (5)   Only skates, skateboards and approved bicycles can be used in the
skate area;
      (6)   Scooters, razors and motorized vehicles are prohibited in the skate
area;
      (7)   Skating, skateboarding and/or biking outside of the skate area is
prohibited;
      (8)   Persons violating the regulations will be removed from the park and
may be prohibited from skating, skateboarding and/or biking at the park it the
future; and
      (9)   Persons violating the regulations will be subject to citation and
prosecution under this code.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-105) (Ord. 2010-162, § 2, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 13-1-106 IMPLEMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The City Director, or designee, is directed and authorized to adopt
and promulgate procedures and regulations that are consistent with this
subchapter to implement the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The City Director, or designee, is directed to enforce the provisions
of this subchapter, including the regulation that skaters, skateboarders and
bikers wear helmets, kneepads and elbow pads when skating, skateboarding and/or
biking at the park.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-106) (Ord. 2010-162, § 2, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 13-1-107 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any of the regulations set forth in §
13-1-103 may be removed from the park. Any violation of any section of this
subchapter is deemed to be an infraction and punishable under this section
according to the provisions of this code and state law.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-107) (Ord. 2010-162, § 2, passed 1-4-2011)
§§ 13-1-108—13-1-110 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** SUBCHAPTER 6. HEALTHY PARKS ORDINANCE ****
§ 13-1-111 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to:
   (A)   Protect the public health, safety and general welfare by prohibiting
smoking in recreational areas under circumstances where other persons will be
exposed to secondhand smoke;
   (B)   Assure a cleaner and more hygienic environment for the city, its
residents and its natural resources;
   (C)   Strike a reasonable balance between the needs of persons who smoke and
the needs of nonsmokers, including children, to breathe smoke-free air,
recognizing the threat to public health and the environment which smoking
causes;
   (D)   Recognize the right of employees, residents and visitors to the city
to be free from unwelcome second-hand smoke;
   (E)   Provide for the public health, safety and welfare by discouraging the
inherently dangerous behavior of smoking around non-tobacco users, by
protecting children from exposure to smoking where they live and play and by
protecting the public from nonconsensual exposure to secondhand smoke; and
   (F)   Supplement applicable state and federal laws pertaining to smoking and
not to duplicate, contradict or frustrate such laws. This subchapter shall be
construed consistently with that intention.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-111) (Ord. 2014-176, § 2, passed 6-17-2014)
§ 13-1-112 TITLE.
   This subchapter is titled the “Healthy Parks Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-112) (Ord. 2014-176, § 2, passed 6-17-2014)
§ 13-1-113 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE. An electronic and/or battery-operated device, the use
of which may resemble smoking, which can be used to deliver an inhaled dose of
nicotine or other substances. ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE includes any such electronic
smoking device, whether manufactured, distributed, marketed or sold as an
electronic cigarette, an electronic cigar, an electronic cigarillo, an
electronic pipe, an electronic hookah or any other product name or descriptor.
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE does not include any product that has been approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
product and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose.
   RECREATIONAL AREA. Any city-owned public area, open to the public for
recreational purposes regardless of any fee or age requirement, including, for
example, but not limited to, parks, picnic areas, playgrounds, gardens,
athletic fields, walking paths, hiking trails, amphitheaters, bike paths,
horseback riding trails, sports facilities, skateboard parks, stadiums and
other open spaces.
   SMOKING or TO SMOKE. Holding or possessing a lighted pipe, a lighted hookah
pipe, a lighted cigar, a lighted cigarette, a lighted hookah, an operating
electronic cigarette or other similar type of device, or the lighting of a
pipe, hookah, cigar, cigarette or similar type of device containing tobacco,
tobacco product, nicotine, spices or any other plant or herbal materials,
including marijuana. SMOKING also includes the use of an electronic cigarette
device which creates a vapor or aerosol, in any manner or in any form.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-113) (Ord. 2014-176, § 2, passed 6-17-2014)
§ 13-1-114 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN RECREATIONAL AREAS.
   Smoking is prohibited in all recreational areas.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-114) (Ord. 2014-176, § 2, passed 6-17-2014)
§ 13-1-115 PROHIBITIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall intimidate, harass or otherwise retaliate against any
person who seeks to attain compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   Moreover, no person shall intentionally or recklessly expose another
person to secondhand smoke in response to that person’s effort to achieve
compliance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-115) (Ord. 2014-176, § 2, passed 6-17-2014)
§ 13-1-116 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations of this subchapter shall be an infraction under the
provisions of this code and shall be punishable for the first conviction by a
fine of not more than $100.00, for a second conviction within a period of one
year by a fine of not more than $200.00 and for a third or any subsequent
conviction within a period of one year by a fine of not more than $500.00.
   (B)   The remedies provided by this subchapter are cumulative and in
addition to any other remedies available at law or in equity.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-116) (Ord. 2014-176, § 2, passed 6-17-2014)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to California Codes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO CALIFORNIA CODES
Business and Professions Code
Section Code Section
Section                                                     Code Section
480                                                         5-2-5
Division 8, Chapter 9, Subchapter 6, being §§ 21660—21665-7-1
4030                                                        5-3-304
4036                                                        5-3-304
4037                                                        5-3-304
Division 10                                                 9-1-55.1
Chapter 10.5, commencing with § 4600                       5-3-1
4600 et seq.                                                5-3-4;
                                                            5-3-8
23000 et seq.                                               11-4-21
                                                            
 
Civil Code
Section Code Section
Section      Code Section
801.5(a)(1)  8-1-1003
801.5(a)(2)  8-1-1003
832          8-1-824
2080.010     5-7-12
2080.7       11-16-4
3479         11-14-11;
             11-14-104
3480         11-14-11;
             11-14-104
3494         11-14-101
4080         8-1-1006;
             8-1-1012
4125         9-1-142
9550 et seq. 3-7-6
             
 
Code of Civil Procedure
 
Section                                       Code Section
Part 2, Title 5, Chapter 4, Article 3, 415.10 11-8-56
731                                           7-1-141;
                                              11-14-101
                                              5-5-20;
1094.5                                        6-3-407;
                                              6-3-410
                                              5-5-20;
1094.6                                        6-3-407;
                                              6-3-410;
                                              11-14- 112
1094.6 et seq.                                11-14-111
                                              
 
 
Education Code
 
Section                                Code Section
17620                                  9-1-35.26
17620(a)(1)(C)                         9-1-35.26
37600 et seq.                          9-1-602
Title 2, Division 4, Part 27,           
Chapter 9, Article 13, § 49580 et seq.6-3-704
                                       
 
Elections Code
 
Section Code Section
21601   2-9-1
 
Fish and Game Code
 
Section Code Section
1801    9-1-81
 
 
Food and Agricultural Code
 
Section                   Code Section
Division 17, Chapter 10.5 5-7-1
 
Government Code
Section Code Section
Section                              Code Section
900 et seq.                          2-5-3
1090                                 3-6-2;
                                     3-6-14
6103                                 7-1-4;
                                     7-3-50
7920.000 et seq.                     6-3-35;
                                     6-3-711
12900 et seq.                        9-1-39;
                                     9-1-142
                                     6-5-29;
25845                                7-4-814;
                                     11-14-118
34856                                2-4-6
34871                                2-9-1
34886                                2-9-1
36501                                2-5-1;
                                     2-6-1
36514.5                              2-2-5
36900                                9-1-78.3
38660                                6-3-401
38771                                6-3-401;
                                     6-3-407
38771 et seq.                        11-14-101
38773                                7-1-141
38773 et seq.                        11-8-56
                                     1-3-25;
38773.1                              6-3-407;
                                     11-14-118
38773.1(b)                           11-14-118
                                     1-3-25;
38773.5                              6-3-407;
                                     11-14-2;
                                     11-14- 117
38773.5(e)                           11-14-104
38773.7                              11-14-119
39574 et seq.                        1-1-25
40602                                2-4-6
40801 et seq.                        2-5-3
40802—40805                        2-6.1-3
40805.5                              2-6.1-1
41001—41007                        2-6-3
51030 et seq.                        5-3-1
51032                                5-3-7
51178                                11-3-800
51182                                11-3-11
51501                                3-2-1
53069.3                              11-8-52
53069.4                              1-3-11;
                                     1-3-14
53069.4(b)                           1-3-24
53069.5                              11-8-57
53090—53095                        8-1-805
54950—54963                        8-1-3
54950 et seq.                        2-3-8;
                                     2-3-12
54970—54974                        2-3-4
54972                                2-3-4
65000 et seq.                        9-1-10
65089(b)(3)                          9-1-100
65089.3                              9-1-100
65090                                9-1-117.1
65090 et seq.                        9-1-117.1
65091                                9-1-117.1
65093                                9-1-117.1
65105                                9-1-132
65300 et seq.                        6-3-401
65302                                9-1-401
65350 et seq.                        9-1-117.1
65352                                9-1-117.1
65402                                9-1-5
65450 et seq.                        9-1-117.2;
                                     9-1-142
65560                                9-1-401
65582(j)                             9-1-142
65583(a)(4)(A)(ii)                   9-1-45.27
65583(c)(3)                          9-1-35.28
65583.2(c)                           9-1-55.5
65650 et seq.                        9-1-35.28
65650(a)                             9-1-142
65651(b)(1)                          9-1-35.28
65660 et seq.                        9-1-45.28
65660(a)                             9-1-142
65662                                9-1-45.28
65668                                9-1-45.28
65800                                9-1-401
65850.5                              8-1-1001
65850.55                             8-1-1005
65850.7                              8-1-1007;
                                     8-1-1012
65850.71                             8-1-1007
65852.2(f)                           9-1-35.26
65853 et seq.                        9-1-117.3;
                                     9-1-117.4
65864                                9-1-117.6
65915                                9-1-55.5
65915 et seq.                        9-1-37
                                     9-1-113.1;
65920 et seq.                        9-1-113.3;
                                     9-1-113.4
65971                                9-1-601
66000(b)                             9-1-35.26
66015                                8-1-1005
Title 7, Division 1, Chapter 13      9-1-35.26
66314—66322                        9-1-35.26
66323                                9-1-35.26
66333—66339                        9-1-35.26
66333(a)                             9-1-35.26
66341                                9-1-35.26
Title 7, Division 2, §§ 66410      9-1-5
66410 et seq.                        7-1-143;
                                     9-1-227
66411                                6-3-401
66451.3                              9-1-364
66469                                9-1-362
66472.1                              9-1-362
66474                                9-1-363
66477                                9-1-35.26;
                                     9-1-502
66477.5                              9-1-508
66483 et seq.                        9-1-223
66484.3                              9-1-316
66498.1—66498.8                    9-1-236
68632(a)                             5-7-11
68632(b)                             5-7-11
Title 9                              2-8-13
81000—91014                        3-6-14
81000 et seq.                        2-5-3
84100—84513                        2-8-20
Title 9, Chapter 4, §§ 84100 et seq2-8-35
84100 et seq.                        2-8-20
84615(a)                             2-8-35
84616                                2-8-40
87100                                3-6-14
87100 et seq.                        3-6-2
87200                                2-8-35;
                                     2-8-40
87300                                2-8-35
                                     
 
Health and Safety Code
Section Code Section
Section                                   Code Section
1569.2                                    9-1-54.2;
                                          9-1-54.6
Division 2, Chapter 3.4                   9-1-35.18
Division 2, Chapter 3.6                   9-1-35.18
1797.85                                   6-9-2
1797.224                                  6-9-2
11362.7—11362.83                        9-1-142
11362.77                                  9-1-55.1
14825 et seq.                             11-3-500;
                                          11-3-505
14827                                     11-3-505
1596.78                                   9-1-142
1596.750                                  9-1-142
17920.3                                   9-1-35.26;
                                          11-14-11
17951                                     8-1-1005;
                                          11-14-121
17958.1                                   9-1-35.26;
                                          9-1-142
17980                                     11-14-119
17980.12                                  9-1-35.26
18000                                     9-1-35.17
18007                                     9-1-35.26;
                                          9-1-142
18010                                     7-4-102
18938.5(b)(2)(C)                          8-1-13
18938.6                                   8-1-13
Division 21, Chapter 11                   5-3-152
25100 et seq.                             9-1-45.22
25115                                     6-3-210
25117                                     6-3-210
25122.7                                   6-3-210
25135 et seq.                             9-1-45.22
25280 et seq.                             9-1-45.22
25500 et seq.                             11-3-12
Division 30, Part 3, Chapter 13.1         6-3-700
39000 et seq.                             3-1-2
39730.5                                   6-3-17;
                                          6-3-700
39730.6                                   6-3-17;
                                          6-3-700
39730.7                                   6-3-17;
                                          6-3-700
39730.8                                   6-3-17;
                                          6-3-700
40460 et seq.                             3-1-2
42652                                     6-3-700
44243                                     3-1-2
44244.1                                   3-1-2
44244.1(c)                                3-1-2
50079.5                                   9-1-55.5
50801(e)                                  9-1-142
78075                                     6-3-210
101325                                    6-4-41
106615                                    6-4-14;
                                          6-4-19
106710                                    6-4-19
111955                                    6-4-14
113700 et seq.                            6-3-700
113742                                    6-4-14
113751                                    6-4-14
113783                                    6-3-17;
                                          6-3-700
                                          6-3-17;
113789                                    6-3-700;
                                          6-4-14
113831                                    6-4-14
113841                                    6-3-17;
                                          6-3-700
113842                                    6-3-17;
                                          6-3-700
113843                                    6-4-14
113855                                    6-4-14
113879                                    6-4-14
113893                                    6-4-14
113899                                    6-4-14
113930                                    6-4-14
113938                                    6-4-14
114079                                    6-3-704
114323                                    6-4-21
114393                                    5-7-12
Division 104, Part 9, Chapter 8, § 1149606-3-17;
                                          6-3-700
115920 et seq.                            11-14-11
116270 et seq.                            6-5-15
117600                                    6-3-700
Division 104, Part 14, § 117600          6-3-17;
                                          6-3-700
                                          
 
 
Labor Code
 
Section      Code Section
1720—1861  3-7-6
6360 et seq. 6-3-210
6390         6-3-210
 
Penal Code
Section Code Section
Section       Code Section
266a          5-5-14;
              5-5-17
266b          5-5-14;
              5-5-17
266c          5-5-14;
              5-5-17
266e          5-5-14;
              5-5-17
266g          5-5-14;
              5-5-17
              5-3-1;
266h          5-5-14;
              5-5-17
266i          5-5-14;
              5-5-17
              5-3-1;
290           5-5-19;
              6-9-7
311           8-1-128
311—313.4   5-5-19
              5-3-1;
315           5-5-14;
              5-5-17;
              5-5-19
              5-3-1;
316           5-5-14;
              5-5-17;
              5-5-19
              5-3-1;
318           5-5-14;
              5-5-19
320           11-5-1;
              11-5-15
326.5         11-10-30
330           11-5-1;
              11-5-15
330a          11-5-1
594           11-8-52;
              11-8-57
594.1         11-8-52
647(a)        5-5-14;
              5-5-17
              5-3-1;
647(b)        5-5-14;
              5-5-17;
              5-5-19
647(d)        5-5-14;
              5-5-17
653.23        5-3-1
832           10-1-32
              1-3-2;
              6-3-407;
836.5         6-6-11;
              10-1-30;
              10-1-105
853.5         6-3-407;
              10-1-30
              1-3-2;
853.6         6-3-407;
              10-1-30
853.6 et seq. 1-3-1
853.9         6-3-407
11225—11235 5-3-1
16520         11-2-30
16700         11-2-30
26700 et seq. 5-3-240
              
 
Public Contract Code
 
Section       Code Section
22000 et seq. 3-7-1
22032         3-7-1
22034         3-7-2
22034(d)      3-7-3
22036         3-7-3;
              3-7-4
              
 
Public Resources Code
Section Code Section
Section                                  Code Section
Division 2, Chapter 9, 2710 2796.5       6-5-45
4129                                     11-3-200
4133                                     11-3-200
4291                                     11-3-11
                                         6-3-401;
                                         9-1-10;
                                         9-1-11;
21000 et seq.                            9-1-15;
                                         9-1-81;
                                         9-1-118;
                                         9-1-242;
                                         9-1- 255
21061.1                                  9-1-81
21083                                    6-3-401
21084                                    6-3-401
21155                                    9-1-35.26
Division 30                              6-3-17;
                                         6-3-700
                                         9-1-10;
30000 et seq.                            9-1-116.1;
                                         9-1-116.5
30200 et seq.                            9-1-116.4
30603(a)(1)                              9-1-116.1
30603(a)(2)                              9-1-116.1
30607                                    6-3-401
30610(e)                                 9-1-116.3
30800 et seq.                            9-1-116.5
40000 et seq.                            6-3-600
40141                                    6-3-17;
                                         6-3-700
40181                                    6-3-17;
                                         6-3-700
40191                                    6-3-17;
                                         6-3-700
40195.1                                  6-3-17;
                                         6-3-700
41500                                    6-3-17;
                                         6-3-700
41802                                    6-3-17;
                                         6-3-700
Division 30                              6-3-17
Division 30, Part 3, Chapter 13.1, 42652 6-3-17;
                                         6-3-700
42900 et seq.                            9-1-45.19
                                         
 
Public Utilities Code
 
Section Code Section
230     9-1-235
 
Revenue and Taxation Code
Section Code Section
Section       Code Section
5096 et seq.  3-4-10
              3-3-9;
6001 et seq.  3-3-10;
              3-3-13
6067          3-3-11;
              5-7-3
6203          3-3-10
6366          3-3-12
6366.1        3-3-12
6701          3-3-10
6702          3-3-10
6711          3-3-10
6715          3-3-10
6737          3-3-10
6797          3-3-10
6828          3-3-10
              3-3-4;
7200 et seq.  3-3-9;
              3-3-12—
              3-3-14
7202          3-3-13
7203          3-3-13
7280          3-5-2
11901 et seq. 3-4-1;
              3-4-9
23701 et seq. 5-3-336
23701(a)      11-10-30
23701(b)      11-10-30
23701(d)      11-10-30
23701(e)      11-10-30
23701(f)      11-10-30
23701(g)      11-10-30
23701a        11-10-30
23701b        11-10-30
23701d        11-10-30
23701e        11-10-30
23701f        11-10-30
23701g        11-10-30
237011        11-10-30
              
 
 
Streets and Highways Code
 
Section      Code Section
890.8        7-4-102
2106         3-1-1
2107         3-1-1
2113         3-1-1
8300 et seq. 9-1-804
 
 
Vehicle Code
Section Code Section
Section       Code Section
235           7-4-501.1
312.5         7-4-501.1
407.5         13-1-53
415           11-14-2
515           7-4-606;
              7-4-607
670           11-14-2
2900—2910   2-3-48
5004          7-4-808;
              11-14-114
21202(a)      7-4-500
21225         13-1-53
21230         13-1-53
21455.5       7-4-205
22520.5       5-7-10
22650 et seq. 7-4-604
22651         7-4-605
22669         7-4-800
23127         13-1-53
35000 et seq. 7-4-701
35780 et seq. 7-4-701
              8-1-14;
38366         8-1-900;
              11-3-3
              
 
Welfare and Institutions Code
 
Section                                          Code Section
207                                              11-6-3
602                                              11-8-59
625                                              11-6-3
Division 8, Chapter 6.5 (commencing with § 8255)9-1-45.28
                                                 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
 
Prior Code 2026 Code
Prior Code                                   2026 Code
1-1-1                                        1-1-1
1-1-2                                        1-1-2
1-1-3                                        1-1-3
1-1-4                                        1-1-4
1-1-5                                        1-1-5
1-1-6                                        1-1-6
1-1-7                                        1-1-7
1-1-8                                        1-1-8
1-1-9                                        1-1-9
1-1-10                                       1-1-10
1-1-11                                       1-1-11
1-1-12                                       1-1-12
1-1-13                                       1-1-13
1-1-14                                       1-1-14
1-1-15                                       1-1-15
1-1-16                                       1-1-16
1-1-17                                       1-1-17
1-1-18                                       1-1-18
1-1-20                                       1-1-20
1-1-21                                       1-1-21
1-1-22                                       1-1-22
1-1-23                                       1-1-23
1-1-24                                       1-1-24
1-1-25                                       1-1-25
1-1-26                                       1-1-26
1-1-27                                       1-1-27
1-1-28                                       1-1-28
1-2-1                                        1-2-1
1-3-1                                        1-3-1
1-3-2                                        1-3-2
1-3-11                                       1-3-11
1-3-12                                       1-3-12
1-3-13                                       1-3-13
1-3-14                                       1-3-14
1-3-15                                       1-3-15
1-3-16                                       1-3-16
1-3-17                                       1-3-17
1-3-18                                       1-3-18
1-3-20                                       1-3-20
1-3-21                                       1-3-21
1-3-22                                       1-3-22
1-3-23                                       1-3-23
1-3-24                                       1-3-24
1-3-25                                       1-3-25
2-1-1                                        2-1-1
2-2-1                                        2-2-1
2-2-2                                        2-2-2
2-2-4                                        2-2-4
2-2-5                                        2-2-5
2-2-6                                        2-2-6
2-2-7                                        2-2-7
2-2-8                                        2-2-8
2-2-9                                        2-2-9
2-2-10                                       2-2-10
2-3-1                                        2-3-1
2-3-2                                        2-3-2
2-3-3                                        2-3-3
2-3-4                                        2-3-4
2-3-5                                        2-3-5
2-3-6                                        2-3-6
2-3-7                                        2-3-7
2-3-8                                        2-3-8
2-3-9                                        2-3-9
2-3-10                                       2-3-10
2-3-11                                       2-3-11
2-3-12                                       2-3-12
2-3-13                                       2-3-13
2-3-14                                       2-3-14
2-3-15                                       2-3-15
2-3-16                                       2-3-16
2-3-17                                       2-3-17
2-3-18                                       2-3-18
2-3-19                                       2-3-19
2-3-20                                       2-3-20
2-3-21                                       2-3-21
2-3-22                                       2-3-22
2-3-23                                       2-3-23
2-3-24                                       2-3-24
2-3-25                                       2-3-25
2-3-26                                       2-3-26
2-3-27                                       2-3-27
2-3-28                                       2-3-28
2-3-29                                       2-3-29
2-3-30                                       2-3-30
2-3-31                                       2-3-31
2-3-32                                       2-3-32
2-3-33                                       2-3-33
2-3-34                                       2-3-34
2-3-46                                       2-3-46
2-3-47                                       2-3-47
2-3-48                                       2-3-48
2-3-49                                       2-3-49
2-3-50                                       2-3-50
2-3-51                                       2-3-51
2-3-52                                       2-3-52
2-3-53                                       2-3-53
2-3-54                                       2-3-54
2-3-55                                       2-3-55
2-3-56                                       2-3-56
2-3-57                                       2-3-57
2-3-58                                       2-3-58
2-4-1                                        2-4-1
2-4-2                                        2-4-2
2-4-3                                        2-4-3
2-4-4                                        2-4-4
2-4-5                                        2-4-5
2-4-6                                        2-4-6
2-4-7                                        2-4-7
2-4-8                                        2-4-8
2-4-9                                        2-4-9
2-4-10                                       2-4-10
2-4-11                                       2-4-11
2-4-12                                       2-4-12
2-5-1                                        2-5-1
2-5-2                                        2-5-2
2-5-3                                        2-5-3
2-6-1                                        2-6-1
2-6-2                                        2-6-2
2-6-3                                        2-6-3
2-6.5-1                                      2-6.1-1
2-6.5-2                                      2-6.1-2
2-6.5-3                                      2-6.1-3
2-7-1                                        2-7-1
2-7-2                                        2-7-2
2-7-3                                        2-7-3
2-8-11                                       2-8-11
2-8-12                                       2-8-12
2-8-13                                       2-8-13
2-8-14                                       2-8-14
2-8-15                                       2-8-15
2-8-16                                       2-8-16
2-8-17                                       2-8-17
2-8-18                                       2-8-18
2-8-19                                       2-8-19
2-8-20                                       2-8-20
2-8-21                                       2-8-21
2-8-22                                       2-8-22
2-8-23                                       2-8-23
2-8-31                                       2-8-31
3-1-1                                        3-1-1
3-1-2                                        3-1-2
3-2-1                                        3-2-1
3-3-1                                        3-3-1
3-3-2                                        3-3-2
3-3-3                                        3-3-3
3-3-4                                        3-3-4
3-3-5                                        3-3-5
3-3-6                                        3-3-6
3-3-7                                        3-3-7
3-3-8                                        3-3-8
3-3-9                                        3-3-9
3-3-10                                       3-3-10
3-3-11                                       3-3-11
3-3-12                                       3-3-12
3-3-13                                       3-3-13
3-3-14                                       3-3-14
3-3-15                                       3-3-15
3-3-16                                       3-3-16
3-3-17                                       3-3-17
3-4-1                                        3-4-1
3-4-2                                        3-4-2
3-4-3                                        3-4-3
3-4-4                                        3-4-4
3-4-5                                        3-4-5
3-4-6                                        3-4-6
3-4-8                                        3-4-8
3-4-9                                        3-4-9
3-4-10                                       3-4-10
3-5-1                                        3-5-1
3-5-2                                        3-5-2
3-5-3                                        3-5-3
3-5-4                                        3-5-4
3-5-5                                        3-5-5
3-5-6                                        3-5-6
3-5-7                                        3-5-7
3-5-8                                        3-5-8
3-5-9                                        3-5-9
3-5-10                                       3-5-10
3-5-11                                       3-5-11
3-5-12                                       3-5-12
3-5-13                                       3-5-13
3-5-14                                       3-5-14
3-6-1                                        3-6-1
3-6-2                                        3-6-2
3-6-3                                        3-6-3
3-6-4                                        3-6-4
3-6-5                                        3-6-5
3-6-6                                        3-6-6
3-6-7                                        3-6-7
3-6-8                                        3-6-8
3-6-9                                        3-6-9
3-6-10                                       3-6-10
3-6-11                                       3-6-11
3-7-1                                        3-7-1
3-7-2                                        3-7-2
3-7-3                                        3-7-3
3-7-4                                        3-7-4
3-7-5                                        3-7-5
3-7-6                                        3-7-6
5-1-2                                        5-1-2
5-1-3                                        5-1-3
5-1-4                                        5-1-4
5-1-5                                        5-1-5
5-1-6                                        5-1-6
5-1-7                                        5-1-7
5-1-9                                        5-1-9
5-1-10                                       5-1-10
5-1-15                                       5-1-15
5-1-16                                       5-1-16
5-1-17                                       5-1-17
5-1-20                                       5-1-20
5-1-29                                       5-1-29
5-1-30                                       5-1-30
5-1-41                                       5-1-41
5-2-1                                        5-2-1
5-2-2                                        5-2-2
5-2-3                                        5-2-3
5-2-4                                        5-2-4
5-2-5                                        5-2-5
5-2-6                                        5-2-6
5-2-7                                        5-2-7
5-2-13                                       5-2-13
5-2-14                                       5-2-14
5-2-15                                       5-2-15
5-2-16                                       5-2-16
5-2-17                                       5-2-17
5-2-18                                       5-2-18
5-2-19                                       5-2-19
5-3-105                                      5-3-105
5-3-106                                      5-3-106
5-3-107                                      5-3-107
5-3-108                                      5-3-108
5-3-128                                      5-3-128
5-3-197                                      5-3-197
5-3-198                                      5-3-198
5-3-199                                      5-3-199
5-3-200                                      5-3-200
5-3-240                                      5-3-240
5-3-291                                      5-3-291
5-3-292                                      5-3-292
5-3-293                                      5-3-293
5-3-294                                      5-3-294
5-3-321                                      5-3-321
5-3-322                                      5-3-322
5-3-324                                      5-3-324
5-3-325                                      5-3-325
5-3-326                                      5-3-326
5-3-327                                      5-3-327
5-3-328                                      5-3-328
5-3-329                                      5-3-329
5-3-330                                      5-3-330
5-3-335                                      5-3-335
5-3-336                                      5-3-336
5-3-337                                      5-3-337
5-3-338                                      5-3-338
5-3-339                                      5-3-339
5-3-340                                      5-3-340
5-3-341                                      5-3-341
5-3-342                                      5-3-342
5-4-1                                        5-4-1
5-4-2                                        5-4-2
5-4-3                                        5-4-3
5-4-4                                        5-4-4
5-4-5                                        5-4-5
5-4-6                                        5-4-6
5-4-7                                        5-4-7
5-4-8                                        5-4-8
5-4-9                                        5-4-9
5-4-10                                       5-4-10
5-4-11                                       5-4-11
5-4-12                                       5-4-12
5-4-13                                       5-4-13
5-4-14                                       5-4-14
5-4-15                                       5-4-15
5-5-1                                        5-5-1
5-5-2                                        5-5-2
5-5-3                                        5-5-3
5-5-11                                       5-5-11
5-5-12                                       5-5-12
5-5-13                                       5-5-13
5-5-14                                       5-5-14
5-5-15                                       5-5-15
5-5-16                                       5-5-16
5-5-17                                       5-5-17
5-5-18                                       5-5-18
5-5-19                                       5-5-19
5-5-20                                       5-5-20
5-5-21                                       5-5-21
5-5-22                                       5-5-22
5-5-23                                       5-5-23
5-5-24                                       5-5-24
5-5-31                                       5-5-31
5-5-32                                       5-5-32
5-5-33                                       5-5-33
5-7-01                                       5-7-1
5-7-05                                       5-7-2
5-7-10                                       5-7-3
5-7-15                                       5-7-4
5-7-20                                       5-7-5
5-7-25                                       5-7-6
5-7-30                                       5-7-7
5-7-35                                       5-7-8
5-7-40                                       5-7-9
5-7-45                                       5-7-10
5-7-50                                       5-7-11
6-3-1                                        6-3-1
6-3-2                                        6-3-2
6-3-3                                        6-3-3
6-3-4                                        6-3-4
6-3-5                                        6-3-5
6-3-6                                        6-3-6
6-3-17                                       6-3-17
6-3-18                                       6-3-17
6-3-19                                       6-3-17
6-3-20                                       6-3-17
6-3-21                                       6-3-17
6-3-25                                       6-3-17
6-3-26                                       6-3-17
6-3-29                                       6-3-17
6-3-33                                       6-3-17
6-3-35                                       6-3-17
6-3-36                                       6-3-17
6-3-37                                       6-3-17
6-3-39                                       6-3-17
6-3-44                                       6-3-18
6-3-45                                       6-3-20
6-3-57                                       6-3-22
6-3-58                                       6-3-23
6-3-66                                       6-3-29
6-3-75                                       6-3-75
6-3-78                                       6-3-26
6-3-84                                       6-3-27
6-3-85                                       6-3-28
6-3-86                                       6-3-35
6-3-95                                       6-3-36
6-3-96                                       6-3-37
6-3-98                                       6-3-38
6-3-100                                      6-3-39
6-3-125                                      6-3-40
6-3-126                                      6-3-41
6-3-137                                      6-3-42
6-3-200                                      6-3-200
6-3-201                                      6-3-201
6-3-210                                      6-3-210
6-3-220                                      6-3-220
6-3-230                                      6-3-230
6-3-240                                      6-3-240
6-3-250                                      6-3-250
6-3-260                                      6-3-260
6-3-270                                      6-3-270
6-3-280                                      6-3-280
6-3-290                                      6-3-290
6-3-295                                      6-3-295
6-3-300                                      6-3-300
6-3-400                                      6-3-400
6-3-401                                      6-3-401
6-3-402                                      6-3-402
6-3-403                                      6-3-403
6-3-404                                      6-3-404
6-3-405                                      6-3-405
6-3-406                                      6-3-406
6-3-407                                      6-3-407
6-3-409                                      6-3-409
6-3-409.1                                    6-3-409.1
6-3-410                                      6-3-410
6-3-600                                      6-3-600
6-3-601                                      6-3-601
6-3-602                                      6-3-602
6-3-603                                      6-3-603
6-3-604                                      6-3-604
6-3-605                                      6-3-605
6-3-606                                      6-3-606
6-3-607                                      6-3-607
6-3-608                                      6-3-608
6-3-609                                      6-3-609
6-3-610                                      6-3-610
6-3-700                                      6-3-700
6-3-701                                      6-3-701
6-3-702                                      6-3-702
6-3-703                                      6-3-703
6-3-704                                      6-3-704
6-3-705                                      6-3-705
6-3-706                                      6-3-706
6-3-707                                      6-3-707
6-3-708                                      6-3-708
6-3-709                                      6-3-709
6-3-711                                      6-3-711
6-3-712                                      6-3-712
6-3-713                                      6-3-713
6-4-14                                       6-4-14
6-4-15                                       6-4-15
6-4-16                                       6-4-16
6-4-17                                       6-4-17
6-4-18                                       6-4-18
6-4-19                                       6-4-19
6-4-20                                       6-4-20
6-4-22                                       6-4-22
6-4-25                                       6-4-25
6-4-26                                       6-4-26
6-4-27                                       6-4-27
6-4-28                                       6-4-28
6-4-29                                       6-4-29
6-4-30                                       6-4-30
6-4-40                                       6-4-40
6-4-41                                       6-4-41
6-4-42                                       6-4-42
6-4-43                                       6-4-43
6-4-44                                       6-4-44
6-4-52                                       6-4-52
6-4-53                                       6-4-53
6-4-54                                       6-4-54
6-4-60                                       6-4-60
6-4-61                                       6-4-61
6-4-62                                       6-4-62
6-4-63                                       6-4-63
6-4-64                                       6-4-64
6-4-65                                       6-4-65
6-4-66                                       6-4-66
6-5-1                                        6-5-1
6-5-2                                        6-5-2
6-5-3                                        6-5-3
6-5-14                                       6-5-14
6-5-15                                       6-5-15
6-5-17                                       6-5-17
6-5-18                                       6-5-18
6-5-19                                       6-5-19
6-5-25                                       6-5-25
6-5-26                                       6-5-26
6-5-27                                       6-5-27
6-5-28                                       6-5-28
6-5-29                                       6-5-29
6-5-30                                       6-5-30
6-5-31                                       6-5-31
6-5-40                                       6-5-40
6-5-41                                       6-5-41
6-5-42                                       6-5-42
6-5-43                                       6-5-43
6-5-44                                       6-5-44
6-5-45                                       6-5-45
6-5-46                                       6-5-46
6-6-1                                        6-6-1
6-6-2                                        6-6-2
6-6-3                                        6-6-3
6-6-4                                        6-6-4
6-6-5                                        6-6-5
6-6-6                                        6-6-6
6-6-7                                        6-6-7
6-6-8                                        6-6-8
6-6-8.1                                      6-6-8.1
6-6-9                                        6-6-9
6-6-10                                       6-6-10
6-6-11                                       6-6-11
6-6-12                                       6-6-12
6-6-13                                       6-6-13
6-6-14                                       6-6-14
6-6-15                                       6-6-15
6-7-1                                        6-7-1
6-7-10                                       6-7-10
6-7-11                                       6-7-11
6-7-12                                       6-7-12
6-7-13                                       6-7-13
6-7-16                                       6-7-16
6-7-17                                       6-7-17
6-7-18                                       6-7-18
6-7-19                                       6-7-19
6-7-21                                       6-7-21
6-7-27                                       6-7-27
6-7-31                                       6-7-31
6-8-1                                        6-8-1
6-9-1                                        6-9-1
6-9-2                                        6-9-2
6-9-3                                        6-9-3
6-9-4                                        6-9-4
6-9-5                                        6-9-5
6-9-6                                        6-9-6
6-9-7                                        6-9-7
6-9-8                                        6-9-8
6-9-9                                        6-9-9
6-9-10                                       6-9-10
6-9-11                                       6-9-11
6-9-12                                       6-9-12
6-9-13                                       6-9-13
6-9-14                                       6-9-14
6-9-15                                       6-9-15
6-9-16                                       6-9-16
6-9-17                                       6-9-17
7-1-1                                        7-1-1
7-1-2                                        7-1-2
7-1-4                                        7-1-4
7-1-5                                        7-1-5
7-1-11                                       7-1-11
7-1-12                                       7-1-12
7-1-13                                       7-1-13
7-1-14                                       7-1-14
7-1-15                                       7-1-15
7-1-21                                       7-1-21
7-1-22                                       7-1-22
7-1-23                                       7-1-23
7-1-24                                       7-1-24
7-1-25                                       7-1-25
7-1-31                                       7-1-31
7-1-32                                       7-1-32
7-1-33                                       7-1-33
7-1-34                                       7-1-34
7-1-35                                       7-1-35
7-1-41                                       7-1-41
7-1-42                                       7-1-42
7-1-43                                       7-1-43
7-1-44                                       7-1-44
7-1-45                                       7-1-45
7-1-56                                       7-1-56
7-1-57                                       7-1-57
7-1-58                                       7-1-58
7-1-69                                       7-1-69
7-1-71                                       7-1-71
7-1-72                                       7-1-72
7-1-73                                       7-1-73
7-1-74                                       7-1-74
7-1-75                                       7-1-75
7-1-90                                       7-1-90
7-1-91                                       7-1-91
7-1-92                                       7-1-92
7-1-93                                       7-1-93
7-1-94                                       7-1-94
7-1-95                                       7-1-95
7-1-110                                      7-1-110
7-1-111                                      7-1-111
7-1-120                                      7-1-120
7-1-121                                      7-1-121
7-1-122                                      7-1-122
7-1-123                                      7-1-123
7-1-124                                      7-1-124
7-1-125                                      7-1-125
7-1-126                                      7-1-126
7-1-127                                      7-1-127
7-1-128                                      7-1-128
7-1-129                                      7-1-129
7-1-135                                      7-1-135
7-1-140                                      7-1-140
7-1-141                                      7-1-141
7-1-142                                      7-1-142
7-2-1                                        7-2-1
7-2-12                                       7-2-12
7-2-13                                       7-2-13
7-2-14                                       7-2-14
7-3-27                                       7-3-27
7-3-28                                       7-3-28
7-3-29                                       7-3-29
7-3-30                                       7-3-30
7-3-31                                       7-3-31
7-3-37                                       7-3-37
7-3-38                                       7-3-38
7-3-39                                       7-3-39
7-3-41                                       7-3-41
7-3-47                                       7-3-47
7-3-48                                       7-3-48
7-3-49                                       7-3-49
7-3-50                                       7-3-50
7-3-51                                       7-3-51
7-3-57                                       7-3-57
7-3-58                                       7-3-58
7-3-59                                       7-3-59
7-3-60                                       7-3-60
7-3-61                                       7-3-61
7-3-67                                       7-3-67
7-3-68                                       7-3-68
7-3-69                                       7-3-69
7-3-70                                       7-3-70
7-3-71                                       7-3-71
7-3-77                                       7-3-77
7-3-78                                       7-3-78
7-3-79                                       7-3-79
7-3-80                                       7-3-80
7-3-91                                       7-3-91
7-3-92                                       7-3-92
7-4-100                                      7-4-100
7-4-101                                      7-4-101
7-4-102                                      7-4-102
7-4-200                                      7-4-200
7-4-201                                      7-4-201
7-4-202                                      7-4-202
7-4-203                                      7-4-203
7-4-204                                      7-4-204
7-4-205                                      7-4-205
7-4-300                                      7-4-300
7-4-301                                      7-4-301
7-4-302                                      7-4-302
7-4-400                                      7-4-400
7-4-401                                      7-4-401
7-4-500                                      7-4-500
7-4-501                                      7-4-501
7-4-501.1                                    7-4-501.1
7-4-501.2                                    7-4-501.2
7-4-501.3                                    7-4-501.3
7-4-501.4                                    7-4-501.4
7-4-501.5                                    7-4-501.5
7-4-501.6                                    7-4-501.6
7-4-501.7                                    7-4-501.7
7-4-502                                      7-4-502
7-4-503                                      7-4-503
7-4-600                                      7-4-600
7-4-601                                      7-4-601
7-4-603                                      7-4-603
7-4-604                                      7-4-604
7-4-605                                      7-4-605
7-4-606                                      7-4-606
7-4-607                                      7-4-607
7-4-608                                      7-4-608
7-4-700                                      7-4-700
7-4-701                                      7-4-701
7-4-702                                      7-4-702
7-4-800                                      7-4-800
7-4-801                                      7-4-801
7-4-802                                      7-4-802
7-4-803                                      7-4-803
7-4-804                                      7-4-804
7-4-805                                      7-4-805
7-4-806                                      7-4-806
7-4-807                                      7-4-807
7-4-808                                      7-4-808
7-4-809                                      7-4-809
7-4-810                                      7-4-810
7-4-811                                      7-4-811
7-4-812                                      7-4-812
7-4-813                                      7-4-813
7-4-814                                      7-4-814
7-4-900                                      7-4-900
7-4-901                                      7-4-901
7-4-902                                      7-4-902
7-5-1                                        7-5-1
8-1-1                                        8-1-1
8-1-2                                        8-1-2
8-1-3                                        8-1-3
8-1-4                                        8-1-4
8-1-5                                        8-1-5
8-1-94                                       8-1-94
8-1-95                                       8-1-95
8-1-96                                       8-1-96
8-1-97                                       8-1-97
8-1-98                                       8-1-98
8-1-104                                      8-1-104
8-1-105                                      8-1-105
8-1-106                                      8-1-106
8-1-107                                      8-1-107
8-1-108                                      8-1-108
8-1-114                                      8-1-114
8-1-115                                      8-1-115
8-1-116                                      8-1-116
8-1-118                                      8-1-118
8-1-124                                      8-1-124
8-1-125                                      8-1-125
8-1-128                                      8-1-128
8-1-134                                      8-1-134
8-1-135                                      8-1-135
8-1-136                                      8-1-136
8-1-137                                      8-1-137
8-1-138                                      8-1-138
8-1-144                                      8-1-144
8-1-145                                      8-1-145
8-1-146                                      8-1-146
8-1-147                                      8-1-147
8-1-148                                      8-1-148
8-1-154                                      8-1-154
8-1-155                                      8-1-155
8-1-156                                      8-1-156
8-1-189                                      8-1-189
8-1-800                                      8-1-800
8-1-801                                      8-1-801
8-1-802                                      8-1-802
8-1-803                                      8-1-803
8-1-804                                      8-1-804
8-1-805                                      8-1-805
8-1-806                                      8-1-806
8-1-807                                      8-1-807
8-1-808                                      8-1-808
8-1-809                                      8-1-809
8-1-810                                      8-1-810
8-1-811                                      8-1-811
8-1-812                                      8-1-812
8-1-815                                      8-1-815
8-1-816                                      8-1-816
8-1-817                                      8-1-817
8-1-818                                      8-1-818
8-1-819                                      8-1-819
8-1-820                                      8-1-820
8-1-821                                      8-1-821
8-1-822                                      8-1-822
8-1-823                                      8-1-823
8-1-824                                      8-1-824
8-1-825                                      8-1-825
8-1-826                                      8-1-826
8-1-827                                      8-1-827
8-1-828                                      8-1-828
8-1-829                                      8-1-829
8-1-830                                      8-1-830
8-1-831                                      8-1-831
8-1-832                                      8-1-832
8-1-833                                      8-1-833
8-1-834                                      8-1-834
8-1-835                                      8-1-835
8-1-836                                      8-1-836
8-1-837                                      8-1-837
8-1-838                                      8-1-838
8-1-839                                      8-1-839
8-1-840                                      8-1-840
8-1-841                                      8-1-841
8-1-842                                      8-1-842
8-1-843                                      8-1-843
8-1-844                                      8-1-844
8-1-845                                      8-1-845
8-1-1001                                     8-1-1001
8-1-1002                                     8-1-1002
8-1-1003                                     8-1-1003
8-1-1004                                     8-1-1004
8-1-1005                                     8-1-1005
8-1-1006                                     8-1-1006
8-4-1                                        8-4-1
8-4-2                                        8-4-2
8-4-3                                        8-4-3
8-4-4                                        8-4-4
8-4-5                                        8-4-5
8-4-11                                       8-4-11
8-4-12                                       8-4-12
8-4-13                                       8-4-13
8-4-24                                       8-4-24
8-4-25                                       8-4-25
8-4-26                                       8-4-26
8-4-27                                       8-4-27
8-4-28                                       8-4-28
8-4-34                                       8-4-34
8-4-45                                       8-4-45
8-4-46                                       8-4-46
8-4-47                                       8-4-47
8-4-48                                       8-4-48
8-4-49                                       8-4-49
8-4-55                                       8-4-55
8-4-56                                       8-4-56
8-4-57                                       8-4-57
8-4-58                                       8-4-58
8-4-59                                       8-4-59
8-4-65                                       8-4-65
8-4-66                                       8-4-66
8-4-67                                       8-4-67
8-4-68                                       8-4-68
8-4-69                                       8-4-69
8-4-75                                       8-4-75
8-4-76                                       8-4-76
8-4-77                                       8-4-77
8-4-78                                       8-4-78
8-4-79                                       8-4-79
8-4-85                                       8-4-85
8-4-86                                       8-4-86
8-4-87                                       8-4-87
8-4-88                                       8-4-88
8-4-89                                       8-4-89
8-4-95                                       8-4-95
8-4-96                                       8-4-96
8-4-107                                      8-4-107
8-4-108                                      8-4-108
8-4-109                                      8-4-109
8-4-120                                      8-4-120
8-4-121                                      8-4-121
8-4-132                                      8-4-132
8-4-133                                      8-4-133
8-4-134                                      8-4-134
8-4-135                                      8-4-135
8-4-136                                      8-4-136
8-4-142                                      8-4-142
8-4-143                                      8-4-143
8-4-144                                      8-4-144
8-4-145                                      8-4-145
8-4-146                                      8-4-146
8-4-152                                      8-4-152
8-4-153                                      8-4-153
8-4-154                                      8-4-154
8-4-155                                      8-4-155
8-4-156                                      8-4-156
8-4-162                                      8-4-162
8-4-163                                      8-4-163
8-4-164                                      8-4-164
8-4-175                                      8-4-175
8-4-176                                      8-4-176
8-4-177                                      8-4-177
8-4-178                                      8-4-178
8-4-179                                      8-4-179
8-4-185                                      8-4-185
8-4-186                                      8-4-186
8-4-197                                      8-4-197
8-4-198                                      8-4-198
8-4-209                                      8-4-209
8-4-210                                      8-4-210
8-4-221                                      8-4-221
8-4-232                                      8-4-232
8-4-243                                      8-4-243
8-4-244                                      8-4-244
8-4-245                                      8-4-245
8-4-246                                      8-4-246
8-4-247                                      8-4-247
8-4-253                                      8-4-253
8-4-254                                      8-4-254
8-4-255                                      8-4-255
8-4-256                                      8-4-256
8-4-257                                      8-4-257
8-4-263                                      8-4-263
8-4-264                                      8-4-264
8-4-265                                      8-4-265
8-4-266                                      8-4-266
8-4-267                                      8-4-267
8-4-273                                      8-4-273
8-4-274                                      8-4-274
8-4-275                                      8-4-275
8-4-276                                      8-4-276
8-4-277                                      8-4-277
8-4-283                                      8-4-283
8-4-284                                      8-4-284
8-4-285                                      8-4-285
8-4-286                                      8-4-286
8-4-287                                      8-4-287
8-4-293                                      8-4-293
8-4-294                                      8-4-294
8-4-295                                      8-4-295
8-4-296                                      8-4-296
8-4-297                                      8-4-297
8-4-308                                      8-4-308
8-4-309                                      8-4-309
8-4-310                                      8-4-310
8-4-311                                      8-4-311
8-4-312                                      8-4-312
8-4-313                                      8-4-313
8-4-324                                      8-4-324
8-4-325                                      8-4-325
8-4-336                                      8-4-336
8-4-347                                      8-4-347
8-4-348                                      8-4-348
8-4-349                                      8-4-349
8-4-350                                      8-4-350
8-4-351                                      8-4-351
8-4-357                                      8-4-357
8-4-358                                      8-4-358
8-4-359                                      8-4-359
8-4-360                                      8-4-360
8-4-371                                      8-4-371
8-4-372                                      8-4-372
8-4-373                                      8-4-373
8-4-374                                      8-4-374
8-4-385                                      8-4-385
8-4-396                                      8-4-396
8-4-407                                      8-4-407
8-4-418                                      8-4-418
8-4-419                                      8-4-419
8-4-420                                      8-4-420
8-4-421                                      8-4-421
8-4-422                                      8-4-422
8-4-423                                      8-4-423
8-5-10                                       8-5-10
8-8-1                                        8-8-1
8-8-2                                        8-8-2
8-8-3                                        8-8-3
8-8-4                                        8-8-4
8-8-5                                        8-8-5
8-8-6                                        8-8-6
8-8-7                                        8-8-7
8-8-10                                       8-8-10
8-8-15                                       8-8-15
8-8-16                                       8-8-16
8-8-17                                       8-8-17
8-8-18                                       8-8-18
8-8-19                                       8-8-19
8-8-21                                       8-8-21
8-8-22                                       8-8-22
8-8-23                                       8-8-23
8-8-26                                       8-8-26
8-8-30                                       8-8-30
8-8-31                                       8-8-31
8-8-32                                       8-8-32
8-8-33                                       8-8-33
8-8-34                                       8-8-34
8-8-40                                       8-8-40
8-8-41                                       8-8-41
8-8-42                                       8-8-42
8-8-43                                       8-8-43
8-8-44                                       8-8-44
8-8-50                                       8-8-50
8-8-51                                       8-8-51
8-8-52                                       8-8-52
8-8-53                                       8-8-53
9-1-1                                        9-1-1
9-1-2                                        9-1-2
9-1-3                                        9-1-3
9-1-4                                        9-1-4
9-1-5                                        9-1-5
9-1-6                                        9-1-6
9-1-7                                        9-1-7
9-1-8                                        9-1-8
9-1-10                                       9-1-10
9-1-11                                       9-1-11
9-1-12                                       9-1-12
9-1-13                                       9-1-13
9-1-14                                       9-1-14
9-1-15                                       9-1-15
9-1-16                                       9-1-16
9-1-20                                       9-1-20
9-1-21                                       9-1-21
9-1-22                                       9-1-22
9-1-23                                       9-1-23
9-1-30                                       9-1-30
9-1-31                                       9-1-31
9-1-31.1                                     9-1-31.1
9-1-31.2                                     9-1-31.2
9-1-31.3                                     9-1-31.3
9-1-31.4                                     9-1-31.4
9-1-31.5                                     9-1-31.5
9-1-31.6                                     9-1-31.6
9-1-32                                       9-1-32
9-1-33                                       9-1-33
9-1-33.1                                     9-1-33.1
9-1-33.2                                     9-1-33.2
9-1-33.3                                     9-1-33.3
9-1-33.4                                     9-1-33.4
9-1-33.5                                     9-1-33.5
9-1-33.6                                     9-1-33.6
9-1-33.7                                     9-1-33.7
9-1-34                                       9-1-34
9-1-35                                       9-1-35
9-1-35.1                                     9-1-35.1
9-1-35.2                                     9-1-35.2
9-1-35.3                                     9-1-35.3
9-1-35.4                                     9-1-35.4
9-1-35.5                                     9-1-35.5
9-1-35.6                                     9-1-35.6
9-1-35.8                                     9-1-35.8
9-1-35.9                                     9-1-35.9
9-1-35.10                                    9-1-35.10
9-1-35.11                                    9-1-35.11
9-1-35.12                                    9-1-35.12
9-1-35.13                                    9-1-35.13
9-1-35.14                                    9-1-35.14
9-1-35.15                                    9-1-35.15
9-1-35.16                                    9-1-35.16
9-1-35.17                                    9-1-35.17
9-1-35.18                                    9-1-35.18
9-1-35.20                                    9-1-35.20
9-1-35.21                                    9-1-35.21
9-1-35.22                                    9-1-35.22
9-1-35.23                                    9-1-35.23
9-1-35.24                                    9-1-35.24
9-1-35.25                                    9-1-35.25
9-1-36                                       9-1-36
9-1-37                                       9-1-37
9-1-38                                       9-1-38
9-1-39                                       9-1-39
9-1-40                                       9-1-40
9-1-41                                       9-1-41
9-1-41.1                                     9-1-41.1
9-1-41.2                                     9-1-41.2
9-1-41.3                                     9-1-41.3
9-1-41.4                                     9-1-41.4
9-1-41.5                                     9-1-41.5
9-1-41.6                                     9-1-41.6
9-1-42                                       9-1-42
9-1-43                                       9-1-43
9-1-43.1                                     9-1-43.1
9-1-43.2                                     9-1-43.2
9-1-43.3                                     9-1-43.3
9-1-43.4                                     9-1-43.4
9-1-44                                       9-1-44
9-1-45                                       9-1-45
9-1-45.1                                     9-1-45.1
9-1-45.2                                     9-1-45.2
9-1-45.3                                     9-1-45.3
9-1-45.4                                     9-1-45.4
9-1-45.5                                     9-1-45.5
9-1-45.6                                     9-1-45.6
9-1-45.7                                     9-1-45.7
9-1-45.8                                     9-1-45.8
9-1-45.9                                     9-1-45.9
9-1-45.10                                    9-1-45.10
9-1-45.11                                    9-1-45.11
9-1-45.12                                    9-1-45.12
9-1-45.13                                    9-1-45.13
9-1-45.14                                    9-1-45.14
9-1-45.15                                    9-1-45.15
9-1-45.16                                    9-1-45.16
9-1-45.17                                    9-1-45.17
9-1-45.18                                    9-1-45.18
9-1-45.19                                    9-1-45.19
9-1-45.20                                    9-1-45.20
9-1-45.21                                    9-1-45.21
9-1-45.22                                    9-1-45.22
9-1-45.23                                    9-1-45.23
9-1-45.24                                    9-1-45.24
9-1-45.25                                    9-1-45.25
9-1-45.26                                    9-1-45.26
9-1-50                                       9-1-50
9-1-50.1                                     9-1-50.1
9-1-50.2                                     9-1-50.2
9-1-50.3                                     9-1-50.3
9-1-50.4                                     9-1-50.4
9-1-50.5                                     9-1-50.5
9-1-50.6                                     9-1-50.6
9-1-51                                       9-1-51
9-1-52                                       9-1-52
9-1-53                                       9-1-53
9-1-54                                       9-1-54
9-1-54.1                                     9-1-54.1
9-1-54.2                                     9-1-54.2
9-1-54.3                                     9-1-54.3
9-1-54.4                                     9-1-54.4
9-1-54.5                                     9-1-54.5
9-1-54.6                                     9-1-54.6
9-1-54.7                                     9-1-54.7
9-1-55                                       9-1-55
9-1-55.1                                     9-1-55.1
9-1-55.2                                     9-1-55.2
9-1-55.3                                     9-1-55.3
9-1-55.4                                     9-1-55.4
9-1-60                                       9-1-60
9-1-61                                       9-1-61
9-1-62                                       9-1-62
9-1-63                                       9-1-63
9-1-64                                       9-1-64
9-1-65                                       9-1-65
9-1-66                                       9-1-66
9-1-70                                       9-1-70
9-1-71                                       9-1-71
9-1-71.1                                     9-1-71.1
9-1-71.2                                     9-1-71.2
9-1-71.3                                     9-1-71.3
9-1-71.4                                     9-1-71.4
9-1-71.5                                     9-1-71.5
9-1-71.6                                     9-1-71.6
9-1-71.7                                     9-1-71.7
9-1-71.8                                     9-1-71.8
9-1-72                                       9-1-72
9-1-73                                       9-1-73
9-1-74                                       9-1-74
9-1-75                                       9-1-75
9-1-76                                       9-1-76
9-1-77                                       9-1-77
9-1-78                                       9-1-78
9-1-78.1                                     9-1-78.1
9-1-78.2                                     9-1-78.2
9-1-78.3                                     9-1-78.3
9-1-79                                       9-1-79
9-1-80                                       9-1-80
9-1-81                                       9-1-81
9-1-91                                       9-1-91
9-1-91.1                                     9-1-91.1
9-1-91.2                                     9-1-91.2
9-1-91.3                                     9-1-91.3
9-1-91.4                                     9-1-91.4
9-1-91.5                                     9-1-91.5
9-1-92                                       9-1-92
9-1-92.1                                     9-1-92.1
9-1-92.2                                     9-1-92.2
9-1-92.3                                     9-1-92.3
9-1-92.4                                     9-1-92.4
9-1-92.5                                     9-1-92.5
9-1-92.6                                     9-1-92.6
9-1-93                                       9-1-93
9-1-93.1                                     9-1-93.1
9-1-93.2                                     9-1-93.2
9-1-93.3                                     9-1-93.3
9-1-93.4                                     9-1-93.4
9-1-94                                       9-1-94
9-1-94.1                                     9-1-94.1
9-1-94.2                                     9-1-94.2
9-1-94.3                                     9-1-94.3
9-1-94.4                                     9-1-94.4
9-1-94.5                                     9-1-94.5
9-1-100                                      9-1-100
9-1-101                                      9-1-101
9-1-102                                      9-1-102
9-1-103                                      9-1-103
9-1-104                                      9-1-104
9-1-105                                      9-1-105
9-1-106                                      9-1-106
9-1-107                                      9-1-107
9-1-110                                      9-1-110
9-1-111                                      9-1-111
9-1-112                                      9-1-112
9-1-112.1                                    9-1-112.1
9-1-112.2                                    9-1-112.2
9-1-113                                      9-1-113
9-1-113.1                                    9-1-113.1
9-1-113.2                                    9-1-113.2
9-1-113.3                                    9-1-113.3
9-1-113.4                                    9-1-113.4
9-1-113.5                                    9-1-113.5
9-1-113.6                                    9-1-113.6
9-1-113.7                                    9-1-113.7
9-1-113.8                                    9-1-113.8
9-1-113.9                                    9-1-113.9
9-1-113.10                                   9-1-113.10
9-1-114                                      9-1-114
9-1-114.1                                    9-1-114.1
9-1-114.2                                    9-1-114.2
9-1-114.3                                    9-1-114.3
9-1-114.5                                    9-1-114.5
9-1-114.6                                    9-1-114.6
9-1-114.7                                    9-1-114.7
9-1-114.8                                    9-1-114.8
9-1-114.9                                    9-1-114.9
9-1-114.10                                   9-1-114.10
9-1-115                                      9-1-115
9-1-116                                      9-1-116
9-1-116.1                                    9-1-116.1
9-1-116.2                                    9-1-116.2
9-1-116.3                                    9-1-116.3
9-1-116.4                                    9-1-116.4
9-1-116.5                                    9-1-116.5
9-1-117                                      9-1-117
9-1-117.1                                    9-1-117.1
9-1-117.2                                    9-1-117.2
9-1-117.3                                    9-1-117.3
9-1-117.4                                    9-1-117.4
9-1-117.5                                    9-1-117.5
9-1-117.6                                    9-1-117.6
9-1-118                                      9-1-118
9-1-119                                      9-1-119
9-1-120                                      9-1-120
9-1-121                                      9-1-121
9-1-122                                      9-1-122
9-1-123                                      9-1-123
9-1-124                                      9-1-124
9-1-125                                      9-1-125
9-1-126                                      9-1-126
9-1-127                                      9-1-127
9-1-128                                      9-1-128
9-1-130                                      9-1-130
9-1-131                                      9-1-131
9-1-132                                      9-1-132
9-1-133                                      9-1-133
9-1-140                                      9-1-140
9-1-141                                      9-1-141
9-1-142                                      9-1-142
Chapter 9, Appendix A                        Chapter 9, Appendix A
Chapter 9, Appendix B                        Chapter 9, Appendix B
Chapter 9, Appendix C                        Chapter 9, Appendix C
9-1-200                                      9-1-200
9-1-201                                      9-1-201
9-1-202                                      9-1-202
9-1-203                                      9-1-203
9-1-204                                      9-1-204
9-1-205                                      9-1-205
9-1-206                                      9-1-206
9-1-207                                      9-1-207
9-1-210                                      9-1-210
9-1-211                                      9-1-211
9-1-212                                      9-1-212
9-1-213                                      9-1-213
9-1-214                                      9-1-214
9-1-215                                      9-1-215
9-1-216                                      9-1-216
9-1-217                                      9-1-217
9-1-218                                      9-1-218
9-1-219                                      9-1-219
9-1-220                                      9-1-220
9-1-221                                      9-1-221
9-1-223                                      9-1-223
9-1-225                                      9-1-225
9-1-226                                      9-1-226
9-1-227                                      9-1-227
9-1-229                                      9-1-229
9-1-230                                      9-1-230
Title 9, Division 1, Article 3, Subarticle 3 9-1-230.1
9-1-231                                      9-1-231
9-1-232                                      9-1-232
9-1-233                                      9-1-233
9-1-234                                      9-1-234
9-1-235                                      9-1-235
9-1-236                                      9-1-236
9-1-237                                      9-1-237
9-1-238                                      9-1-238
9-1-239                                      9-1-239
9-1-240                                      9-1-240
9-1-241                                      9-1-241
9-1-242                                      9-1-242
9-1-243                                      9-1-243
9-1-244                                      9-1-244
9-1-246                                      9-1-246
9-1-247                                      9-1-247
9-1-248                                      9-1-248
9-1-249                                      9-1-249
9-1-250                                      9-1-250
9-1-251                                      9-1-251
9-1-252                                      9-1-252
9-1-253                                      9-1-253
9-1-254                                      9-1-254
9-1-255                                      9-1-255
9-1-256                                      9-1-256
9-1-257                                      9-1-257
9-1-258                                      9-1-258
9-1-259                                      9-1-259
9-1-260                                      9-1-260
9-1-263                                      9-1-263
9-1-264                                      9-1-264
9-1-265                                      9-1-265
9-1-266                                      9-1-266
9-1-267                                      9-1-267
9-1-268                                      9-1-268
9-1-269                                      9-1-269
9-1-270                                      9-1-270
9-1-271                                      9-1-271
9-1-272                                      9-1-272
9-1-273                                      9-1-273
9-1-274                                      9-1-274
9-1-275                                      9-1-275
9-1-276                                      9-1-276
9-1-277                                      9-1-277
9-1-278                                      9-1-278
9-1-279                                      9-1-279
9-1-280                                      9-1-280
9-1-281                                      9-1-281
9-1-282                                      9-1-282
9-1-283                                      9-1-283
9-1-284                                      9-1-284
9-1-285                                      9-1-285
9-1-286                                      9-1-286
9-1-287                                      9-1-287
9-1-288                                      9-1-288
9-1-289                                      9-1-289
9-1-290                                      9-1-290
9-1-291                                      9-1-291
9-1-292                                      9-1-292
9-1-295                                      9-1-295
9-1-296                                      9-1-296
9-1-297                                      9-1-297
9-1-298                                      9-1-298
9-1-299                                      9-1-299
9-1-300                                      9-1-300
9-1-302                                      9-1-302
9-1-303                                      9-1-303
9-1-304                                      9-1-304
9-1-305                                      9-1-305
9-1-306                                      9-1-306
9-1-307                                      9-1-307
9-1-308                                      9-1-308
9-1-309                                      9-1-309
9-1-310                                      9-1-310
9-1-311                                      9-1-311
9-1-314                                      9-1-314
9-1-315                                      9-1-315
9-1-316                                      9-1-316
9-1-320                                      9-1-320
9-1-321                                      9-1-321
9-1-322                                      9-1-322
9-1-325                                      9-1-325
9-1-326                                      9-1-326
9-1-327                                      9-1-327
9-1-328                                      9-1-328
9-1-329                                      9-1-329
9-1-331                                      9-1-331
9-1-332                                      9-1-332
9-1-333                                      9-1-333
9-1-334                                      9-1-334
9-1-335                                      9-1-335
9-1-336                                      9-1-336
9-1-338                                      9-1-338
9-1-339                                      9-1-339
9-1-340                                      9-1-340
9-1-341                                      9-1-341
9-1-342                                      9-1-342
9-1-343                                      9-1-343
9-1-344                                      9-1-344
9-1-345                                      9-1-345
9-1-346                                      9-1-346
9-1-347                                      9-1-347
9-1-351                                      9-1-351
9-1-352                                      9-1-352
9-1-353                                      9-1-353
9-1-355                                      9-1-355
9-1-356                                      9-1-356
9-1-358                                      9-1-358
9-1-359                                      9-1-359
9-1-360                                      9-1-360
9-1-361                                      9-1-361
9-1-362                                      9-1-362
9-1-363                                      9-1-363
9-1-364                                      9-1-364
9-1-401                                      9-1-401
9-1-402                                      9-1-402
9-1-403                                      9-1-403
9-1-404                                      9-1-404
9-1-421                                      9-1-421
9-1-431                                      9-1-431
9-1-432                                      9-1-432
9-1-433                                      9-1-433
9-1-434                                      9-1-434
9-1-435                                      9-1-435
9-1-436                                      9-1-436
9-1-437                                      9-1-437
9-1-441                                      9-1-441
9-1-442                                      9-1-442
9-1-443                                      9-1-443
9-1-444                                      9-1-444
9-1-451                                      9-1-451
9-1-452                                      9-1-452
9-1-453                                      9-1-453
9-1-454                                      9-1-454
9-1-455                                      9-1-455
9-1-456                                      9-1-456
9-1-457                                      9-1-457
9-1-458                                      9-1-458
9-1-459                                      9-1-459
9-1-461                                      9-1-461
9-1-462                                      9-1-462
9-1-463                                      9-1-463
9-1-500                                      9-1-500
9-1-501                                      9-1-501
9-1-502                                      9-1-502
9-1-503                                      9-1-503
9-1-504                                      9-1-504
9-1-505                                      9-1-505
9-1-506                                      9-1-506
9-1-507                                      9-1-507
9-1-508                                      9-1-508
9-1-509                                      9-1-509
9-1-510                                      9-1-510
9-1-511                                      9-1-511
9-1-512                                      9-1-512
9-1-520                                      9-1-520
9-1-521                                      9-1-521
9-1-522                                      9-1-522
9-1-523                                      9-1-523
9-1-524                                      9-1-524
9-1-525                                      9-1-525
9-1-526                                      9-1-526
9-1-527                                      9-1-527
9-1-529                                      9-1-529
9-1-530                                      9-1-530
9-1-540                                      9-1-540
9-1-601                                      9-1-601
9-1-602                                      9-1-602
9-1-603                                      9-1-603
9-1-604                                      9-1-604
9-1-605                                      9-1-605
9-1-606                                      9-1-606
9-1-607                                      9-1-607
9-1-608                                      9-1-608
9-1-609                                      9-1-609
9-1-610                                      9-1-610
9-1-611                                      9-1-611
9-1-612                                      9-1-612
9-1-800                                      9-1-800
9-1-801                                      9-1-801
9-1-802                                      9-1-802
9-1-803                                      9-1-803
9-1-804                                      9-1-804
9-2-1                                        9-2-1
9-2-2                                        9-2-2
9-2-3                                        9-2-3
9-2-4                                        9-2-4
9-2-5                                        9-2-5
9-2-6                                        9-2-6
9-2-7                                        9-2-7
9-2-8                                        9-2-8
9-2-9                                        9-2-9
9-2-10                                       9-2-10
9-2-11                                       9-2-11
9-2-12                                       9-2-12
9-2-13                                       9-2-13
9-2-14                                       9-2-14
9-2-15                                       9-2-15
9-2-16                                       9-2-16
9-2-17                                       9-2-17
9-2-18                                       9-2-18
9-2-19                                       9-2-19
9-2-20                                       9-2-20
9-2-21                                       9-2-21
9-2-22                                       9-2-22
9-2-23                                       9-2-23
9-2-24                                       9-2-24
9-2-25                                       9-2-25
9-2-26                                       9-2-26
9-2-27                                       9-2-27
9-2-28                                       9-2-28
9-2-29                                       9-2-29
9-2-30                                       9-2-30
9-2-31                                       9-2-31
9-2-32                                       9-2-32
9-2-33                                       9-2-33
9-2-34                                       9-2-34
9-3-1                                        9-3-1
9-3-2                                        9-3-2
9-3-3                                        9-3-3
9-3-4                                        9-3-4
9-3-5                                        9-3-5
9-3-6                                        9-3-6
9-3-7                                        9-3-7
9-3-8                                        9-3-8
9-3-9                                        9-3-9
9-3-10                                       9-3-10
9-3-11                                       9-3-11
9-3-12                                       9-3-12
9-3-13                                       9-3-13
10-1-1                                       10-1-1
10-1-2                                       10-1-2
10-1-4                                       10-1-4
10-1-5                                       10-1-5
10-1-7                                       10-1-7
10-1-8                                       10-1-8
10-1-10                                      10-1-10
10-1-12                                      10-1-12
10-1-13                                      10-1-13
10-1-15                                      10-1-15
10-1-17                                      10-1-17
10-1-18                                      10-1-18
10-1-20                                      10-1-20
10-1-21                                      10-1-21
10-1-23                                      10-1-23
10-1-28                                      10-1-28
10-1-29                                      10-1-29
10-1-30                                      10-1-30
10-1-31                                      10-1-31
10-1-32                                      10-1-32
10-1-33                                      10-1-33
10-1-34                                      10-1-34
10-1-35                                      10-1-35
10-1-36                                      10-1-36
10-1-37                                      10-1-37
10-1-38                                      10-1-38
10-1-39                                      10-1-39
10-1-40                                      10-1-40
10-1-45                                      10-1-45
10-1-46                                      10-1-46
10-1-47                                      10-1-47
10-1-48                                      10-1-48
10-1-49                                      10-1-49
10-1-50                                      10-1-50
10-1-51                                      10-1-51
10-1-52                                      10-1-52
10-1-53                                      10-1-53
10-1-54                                      10-1-54
10-1-55                                      10-1-55
10-1-60                                      10-1-60
10-1-61                                      10-1-61
10-1-62                                      10-1-62
10-1-63                                      10-1-63
10-1-64                                      10-1-64
10-1-70                                      10-1-70
10-1-71                                      10-1-71
10-1-72                                      10-1-72
10-1-73                                      10-1-73
10-1-74                                      10-1-74
10-1-75                                      10-1-75
10-1-76                                      10-1-76
10-1-85                                      10-1-85
10-1-94                                      10-1-94
10-1-95                                      10-1-95
10-1-105                                     10-1-105
10-1-106                                     10-1-106
10-1-107                                     10-1-107
10-1-108                                     10-1-108
10-1-109                                     10-1-109
10-1-110                                     10-1-110
10-1-111                                     10-1-111
10-1-112                                     10-1-112
10-1-127                                     10-1-127
10-1-128                                     10-1-128
10-1-129                                     10-1-129
10-1-130                                     10-1-130
10-1-131                                     10-1-131
10-1-143                                     10-1-143
10-1-155                                     10-1-155
10-1-156                                     10-1-156
10-1-157                                     10-1-157
10-1-158                                     10-1-158
10-1-164                                     10-1-164
10-1-165                                     10-1-165
10-1-166                                     10-1-166
10-1-167                                     10-1-167
10-1-168                                     10-1-168
10-1-174                                     10-1-174
10-1-175                                     10-1-175
10-1-176                                     10-1-176
10-1-177                                     10-1-177
10-1-178                                     10-1-178
10-1-179                                     10-1-179
10-1-180                                     10-1-180
10-2-300                                     10-2-1
10-2-301                                     10-2-2
10-2-302                                     10-2-3
10-2-303                                     10-2-4
10-2-304                                     10-2-5
10-2-305                                     10-2-6
10-2-306                                     10-2-7
10-2-307                                     10-2-8
10-2-308                                     10-2-9
10-2-309                                     10-2-10
10-2-310                                     10-2-11
10-2-311                                     10-2-12
10-2-400                                     10-2-20
10-2-401                                     10-2-21
10-2-402                                     10-2-22
10-2-403                                     10-2-23
10-2-404                                     10-2-24
10-2-405                                     10-2-25
10-2-406                                     10-2-26
10-2-407                                     10-2-27
10-2-408                                     10-2-28
10-2-410                                     10-2-30
10-2-411                                     10-2-31
10-2-412                                     10-2-32
10-2-413                                     10-2-33
10-2-414                                     10-2-34
10-2-418                                     10-2-38
10-2-419                                     10-2-39
10-2-420                                     10-2-40
10-3-600                                     10-3-1
10-3-601                                     10-3-2
10-3-604                                     10-3-5
10-3-605                                     10-3-6
10-3-606                                     10-3-7
10-3-607                                     10-3-8
10-3-608                                     10-3-9
10-3-609                                     10-3-10
10-3-610                                     10-3-11
10-3-611                                     10-3-12
10-3-612                                     10-3-13
10-3-613                                     10-3-14
10-3-614                                     10-3-15
10-3-615                                     10-3-16
10-3-616                                     10-3-17
11-2-1                                       11-2-1
11-2-22                                      11-2-22
11-2-23                                      11-2-23
11-2-30                                      11-2-30
11-2-31                                      11-2-31
11-3-85                                      11-3-85
11-3-86                                      11-3-86
11-3-87                                      11-3-87
11-3-88                                      11-3-88
11-3-89                                      11-3-89
11-3-95                                      11-3-95
11-3-97                                      11-3-97
11-3-98                                      11-3-98
11-3-99                                      11-3-99
11-3-100                                     11-3-100
11-3-200                                     11-3-200
11-3-500                                     11-3-500
11-3-505                                     11-3-505
11-3-510                                     11-3-510
11-3-600                                     11-3-600
11-3-601                                     11-3-601
11-3-602                                     11-3-602
11-3-603                                     11-3-603
11-3-604                                     11-3-604
11-3-605                                     11-3-605
11-3-606                                     11-3-606
11-3-607                                     11-3-607
11-3-608                                     11-3-608
11-3-700                                     11-3-700
11-3-701                                     11-3-701
11-3-702                                     11-3-702
11-3-703                                     11-3-703
11-3-800                                     11-3-800
11-4-1                                       11-4-1
11-4-21                                      11-4-21
11-4-26                                      11-4-26
11-5-1                                       11-5-1
11-5-2                                       11-5-2
11-5-3                                       11-5-3
11-5-4                                       11-5-4
11-5-15                                      11-5-15
11-5-16                                      11-5-16
11-5-17                                      11-5-17
11-6-1                                       11-6-1
11-6-2                                       11-6-2
11-6-3                                       11-6-3
11-6-4                                       11-6-4
11-6-7                                       11-6-7
11-7-14                                      11-7-14
11-7-16                                      11-7-16
11-7-27                                      11-7-27
11-7-31                                      11-7-31
11-7-32                                      11-7-32
11-7-33                                      11-7-33
11-7-34                                      11-7-34
11-7-35                                      11-7-35
11-7-36                                      11-7-36
11-8-1                                       11-8-1
11-8-2                                       11-8-2
11-8-3                                       11-8-3
11-8-13                                      11-8-13
11-8-24                                      11-8-24
11-8-25                                      11-8-25
11-8-36                                      11-8-36
11-8-47                                      11-8-47
11-8-48                                      11-8-48
11-8-51                                      11-8-51
11-8-52                                      11-8-52
11-8-53                                      11-8-53
11-8-54                                      11-8-54
11-8-55                                      11-8-55
11-8-56                                      11-8-56
11-8-57                                      11-8-57
11-8-58                                      11-8-58
11-8-59                                      11-8-59
11-9-34                                      11-9-34
11-9-35                                      11-9-35
11-9-44                                      11-9-44
11-9-45                                      11-9-45
11-10-4                                      11-10-4
11-10-24                                     11-10-24
11-10-30                                     11-10-30
11-11-1                                      11-11-1
11-11-2                                      11-11-2
11-11-3                                      11-11-3
11-11-14                                     11-11-14
11-11-15                                     11-11-15
11-11-26                                     11-11-26
11-12-1                                      11-12-1
11-12-2                                      11-12-2
11-12-3                                      11-12-3
11-12-14                                     11-12-14
11-12-25                                     11-12-25
11-13-1                                      11-13-1
11-13-2                                      11-13-2
11-13-3                                      11-13-3
11-13-4                                      11-13-4
11-14-1                                      11-14-1
11-14-2                                      11-14-2
11-14-11                                     11-14-11
11-14-101                                    11-14-101
11-14-102                                    11-14-102
11-14-103                                    11-14-103
11-14-104                                    11-14-104
11-14-105                                    11-14-105
11-14-106                                    11-14-106
11-14-107                                    11-14-107
11-14-108                                    11-14-108
11-14-109                                    11-14-109
11-14-110                                    11-14-110
11-14-111                                    11-14-111
11-14-113                                    11-14-113
11-14-114                                    11-14-114
11-14-115                                    11-14-115
11-14-117                                    11-14-117
11-14-119                                    11-14-119
11-14-120                                    11-14-120
11-14-121                                    11-14-121
11-14-122                                    11-14-122
11-14-124                                    11-14-124
11-14-200                                    11-14-200
11-14-201                                    11-14-201
11-14-202                                    11-14-202
11-15-1                                      11-15-1
11-15-2                                      11-15-2
11-15-3                                      11-15-3
11-15-4                                      11-15-4
11-15-5                                      11-15-5
11-15-6                                      11-15-6
11-15-7                                      11-15-7
11-15-8                                      11-15-8
11-15-9                                      11-15-9
11-15-10                                     11-15-10
13-1-1                                       13-1-1
13-1-2                                       13-1-2
13-1-3                                       13-1-3
13-1-4                                       13-1-4
13-1-15                                      13-1-15
13-1-16                                      13-1-16
13-1-18                                      13-1-18
13-1-19                                      13-1-19
13-1-20                                      13-1-20
13-1-25                                      13-1-25
13-1-26                                      13-1-26
13-1-27                                      13-1-27
13-1-28                                      13-1-28
13-1-29                                      13-1-29
13-1-35                                      13-1-35
13-1-36                                      13-1-36
13-1-37                                      13-1-37
13-1-38                                      13-1-38
13-1-39                                      13-1-39
13-1-40                                      13-1-40
13-1-41                                      13-1-41
13-1-42                                      13-1-42
13-1-44                                      13-1-44
13-1-45                                      13-1-45
13-1-46                                      13-1-46
13-1-47                                      13-1-47
13-1-48                                      13-1-48
13-1-49                                      13-1-49
13-1-49.1                                    13-1-49.1
13-1-50                                      13-1-50
13-1-51                                      13-1-51
13-1-52                                      13-1-52
13-1-53                                      13-1-53
13-1-63                                      13-1-63
13-1-64                                      13-1-64
13-1-65                                      13-1-65
13-1-76                                      13-1-76
13-1-77                                      13-1-77
13-1-78                                      13-1-78
13-1-79                                      13-1-79
13-1-80                                      13-1-80
13-1-81                                      13-1-81
13-1-82                                      13-1-82
13-1-83                                      13-1-83
13-1-94                                      13-1-94
13-1-101                                     13-1-101
13-1-103                                     13-1-103
13-1-104                                     13-1-104
13-1-105                                     13-1-105
13-1-106                                     13-1-106
13-1-107                                     13-1-107
13-1-111                                     13-1-111
13-1-112                                     13-1-112
13-1-113                                     13-1-113
13-1-114                                     13-1-114
13-1-115                                     13-1-115
13-1-116                                     13-1-116
                                             
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
89-3     12-1-1989   2-2-1
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
89-2     12-1-1989   2-2-6
                     1-1-1 —
                     1-1-18;
                     1-1- 20 —
                     1-1-28;
                     1-2-1;
                     1-3- 1;
89-4     12-1-1989   1-3-2;
                     2-2-1;
                     2-2-2;
                     2-2-4;
                     2-2-5;
                     2-2-7 —
                     2- 2-10
89-7     12-1-1989   3-1-1
                     3-2-1;
                     3-4-1 —
                     3-4-6;
89-8     12-12-1989  3- 4-8 —
                     3-4-10;
                     3-5-1 —
                     3- 5-14
90-9     12-12-1989  3-3-1 —
                     3-3-17
90-12    2-2-1990    9-1-316
                     5-1-1 —
                     5-1-7;
                     5-1-9;
                     5-1-10;
                     5-1-15 
                     5-1-17;
                     5-1-20;
                     5-1-29;
                     5-1-30;
                     5-1-41;
                     5-2-1 —
                     5-2-7;
                     5-2-13 —
                     5-2-19;
                     5-3-105 —
                     5-3-108;
                     5-3-128;
                     5-3-240;
                     5-3-291 —
                     5-3-294;
                     5-3-321;
                     5-3-322;
                     5-3- 324 —
                     5-3-330;
                     5-3-335 —
                     5-3-342;
                     6-3-1 —
                     6-3-6;
                     6-3-17;
                     6- 3-18;
                     6-3-19;
                     6-3-24;
                     6- 3-25;
                     6-3-26;
                     6-3-200;
                     6-3-201;
                     6-3-210;
                     6-3-220;
                     6-3-230;
                     6-3-240;
                     6-3-250;
                     6-3-260;
                     6-3-270;
                     6-3-280;
                     6-3-290;
                     6-3-295;
                     6-3-300;
                     6-4-14—
                     6-4-20;
                     6-4-25 
                     6-4-29;
                     6-4-40—
                     6-4-44;
                     6-4-52 
                     6-4-54;
                     6-4-60—
                     6-4-66;
                     6-5-1—
                     6-5-3;
                     6-5-14;
                     6- 5-15;
                     6-5-17 
                     6-5-19;
                     6-5-25—
                     6-5-31;
                     6-6-1—
                     6-6-15;
                     6-7-1;
                     6-7-10—
                     6-7-13;
                     6-7-16 
                     6-7-19;
                     6-7-21;
                     6-7-27;
                     6-7-31;
                     6-9-1—
                     6-9-17;
                     7-1-1;
                     7-1-2;
                     7-1-4;
                     7-1-5;
                     7-1-11—
                     7-1-15;
                     7-1-21—
                     7-1-25;
                     7-1-31 —
                     7-1-35;
                     7-1-41 —
                     7-1-45;
                     7-1-56—
                     7-1-58;
                     7-1-69;
                     7-1-71 —
                     7-1-75;
                     7-1-90—
                     7-1-95;
                     7-1-110;
                     7-1-111;
                     7-1-135;
                     7-2-1;
                     7-2-12 —
                     7-2-14;
                     7-3-27—
                     7-3-31;
                     7-3-37—
                     7-3-39;
                     7-3-41;
                     7-3-47—
                     7-3-51;
                     7-3-57—
                     7-3-61;
                     7-3-67 
                     7-3-71;
                     7-3-77 
                     7-3-80;
                     7-3-91;
                     7-3-92;
                     7-4-100 
                     7-4-102;
                     7-4-300 —
                     7-4-302;
                     7-4-400;
                     7-4-401;
                     7-4-500—
                     7-4-503;
                     7-4-600 
                     7-4-607;
                     7-4-700—
                     7-4-702;
                     7-4-800 
                     7-4-814;
                     7-5-1;
                     8-1-94—
                     8-1-98;
                     8-1-104—
                     8-1-108;
                     8-1-114—
                     8-1-116;
                     8-1-118;
                     8-1-124;
                     8-1-125;
                     8-1-128;
                     8-1-134—
                     8-1-138;
                     8-1-144—
                     8-1-148;
                     8-1-154—
                     8-1-156;
                     8-1-189;
                     8-1-800—
                     8-1-812;
                     8-1-815—
                     8-1-845;
                     8-4-1—
                     8-4-5;
                     8-4-11—
                     8-4-13;
                     8-4-24—
                     8-4-28;
                     8-4-34;
                     8-4-45 —
                     8-4-49;
                     8-4-55—
                     8-4-59;
                     8-4-65—
                     8-4-69;
                     8-4-75—
                     8-4-79;
                     8-4-85—
                     8-4-89;
                     8-4-95;
                     8-4-96;
                     8-4-107—
90-11    3-6-1990    8-4-109;
                     8-4-120;
                     8-4-121;
                     8-4-132—
                     8-4-136;
                     8-4-142—
                     8-4-146;
                     8-4-152—
                     8-4-156;
                     8-4-162—
                     8-4-164;
                     8-4-175—
                     8-4-179;
                     8-4-185;
                     8-4-186;
                     8-4-197;
                     8-4-198;
                     8-4-209;
                     8-4-210;
                     8-4-221;
                     8-4-232;
                     8-4-243—
                     8-4-247;
                     8-4-253—
                     8-4-257;
                     8-4-263—
                     8-4-267;
                     8-4-273—
                     8-4-277;
                     8-4-283—
                     8-4-287;
                     8-4-293—
                     8-4-297;
                     8-4-308—
                     8-4-313;
                     8-4-324;
                     8-4-325;
                     8-4-336;
                     8-4-347—
                     8-4-351;
                     8-4-357—
                     8-4-360;
                     8-4-371—
                     8-4-374;
                     8-4-385;
                     8-4-396;
                     8-4-407;
                     8-4-418—
                     8-4-423;
                     8-8-1—
                     8-8-7;
                     8-8-10;
                     8-8-15—
                     8-8-19;
                     8-8-21—
                     8-8-23;
                     8-8-26;
                     8-8-30—
                     8-8-34;
                     8-8-40—
                     8-8-44;
                     8-8-50—
                     8-8-52;
                     9-1-1—
                     9-1-8;
                     9-1-200—
                     9-1-207;
                     9-1-210—
                     9-1-221;
                     9-1-223;
                     9-1-225—
                     9-1-227;
                     9-1-229—
                     9-1-244;
                     9-1-246—
                     9-1-260;
                     9-1-263—
                     9-1-292;
                     9-1-295—
                     9-1-300;
                     9-1-302—
                     9-1-311;
                     9-1-314—
                     9-1-316;
                     9-1-320—
                     9-1-322;
                     9-1-325 —
                     9-1-329;
                     9-1-331—
                     9-1-336;
                     9-1-338—
                     9-1-347;
                     9-1-351—
                     9-1-353;
                     9-1-355;
                     9-1-356;
                     9-1-358—
                     9-1-361;
                     9-1-500—
                     9-1-512;
                     9-1-520—
                     9-1-527;
                     9-1-529;
                     9-1-530;
                     9-1-540;
                     9-1-601—
                     9-1-612;
                     9-2-1—
                     9-2-34;
                     9-3-1 —
                     9-3-13;
                     10-1-47;
                     11-2-1;
                     11-2-22;
                     11-2-23;
                     11-2-30;
                     11-2-31;
                     11-3-85 
                     11-3-89; 11-1-95—
                     11-3-100;
                     11-3-200;
                     11-3-500;
                     11-3-505;
                     11-3-510;
                     11-4-1;
                     11-5-1—
                     11-5-4;
                     11-5-15—
                     11-5-17;
                     11-7-14;
                     11-7-16;
                     11-7-27;
                     11-8-1;
                     11-8-2;
                     11-8-13;
                     11-8-24;
                     11-8-25;
                     11-8-36;
                     11-8-47;
                     11-8-48;
                     11-9-34;
                     11-9-35;
                     11-9-44;
                     11-9-45;
                     11-10-4;
                     11-10-24;
                     11-10-30;
                     11-11-1—
                     11-11-3;
                     11-11-14;
                     11-11-15;
                     11-11-26;
                     11-12-1—
                     11-12-3;
                     11-12-14;
                     11-12-25;
                     11-13-1—
                     11-13-4;
                     13-1-1—
                     13-1-4;
                     13-1-15;
                     13-1-16;
                     13-1- 18—
                     13-1-20;
                     13-1-25—
                     13-1-29;
                     13-1-35;
                     13-1-37—
                     13-1-39;
                     13-1-45 
                     13-1-51;
                     13-1-63—
                     13-1-65;
                     13-1-94
                     9-1-1—
90-17    4-17-1990   9-1-8;
                     9-1-205
                     2-4-1—
                     2-4-11;
                     2-5- 1—
90-18    6-19-1990   2-5-3;
                     2-6-1—
                     2-6-3;
                     2-7-1—
                     2-7-3
90-23    6-19-1990   6-9-1—
                     6-9-17
                     6-3-200;
                     6-3-201;
                     6-3- 210;
                     6-3-220;
                     6-3-230;
                     6-3-240;
90-24    6-19-1990   6-3-250;
                     6-3- 260;
                     6-3-270;
                     6-3-280;
                     6-3-290;
                     6-3-295;
                     6-3- 300
90-25    6-19-1990   9-1-2
90-28    9-18-1990   7-1-71 —
                     7-1-75
90-29    11-20-1990  9-1-800 —
                     9-1-804
90-31    3-5-1991    9-1-502;
                     9-1-522
91-32    4-16-1991   2-1-1
91-37    6-18-1991   3-1-2
                     7-4-500;
91-38    6-18-1991   7-4-501—
                     7-4- 501.7
91-39    7-16-1991   11-3-600 —
                     11-3-608
91-40    8-6-1991    11-3-600 —
                     11-3-608
91-43    8-20-1991   8-1-820
91-47    10-1-1991   7-4-607
                     9-1-5;
                     9-1-205;
                     9-1-206;
                     9-1-213;
                     9-1-249 —
                     9-1- 258;
91-48    11-5-1991   9-1-291;
                     9-1-295—
                     9-1-298;
                     9-1-300;
                     9-1-356;
                     9-1-359;
                     9-1- 360
91-50    12-3-1991   9-1-242
91-53    12-3-1991   7-4-502
                     7-4-501;
92-55    3-3-1992    7-4-501.2 —
                     7-4-501.4
92-56    7-21-1992   11-2-1;
                     11-2-22
93-61    4-6-1993    7-4-606
93-67    9-7-1993    7-1-120 —
                     7-1-129
                     6-4-14—
                     6-4-20;
                     6-4-22;
                     6-4-25 —
94-69    2-1-1994    6-4-30;
                     6-4- 40—
                     6-4-44;
                     6-4-52—
                     6- 4-54
94-70    2-15-1994   11-8-51—
                     11-8-59
                     2-8-11—
94-71    2-15-1994   2-8-16;
                     2-8- 18—
                     2-8-23
94-75    6-21-1994   11-15-1—
                     11-15-10
                     13-1-36;
                     13-1-40—
95-82    6-6-1995    13-1- 42;
                     13-1-44;
                     13-1-46;
                     13-1-52
95-83    7-18-1995   3-6-1—
                     3-6-10
95-85    11-21-1995  8-1-1
                     7-4-102;
                     7-4-302;
                     7-4- 500;
96-90    4-16-1996   7-4-502;
                     7-4-601;
                     7-4-603;
                     7-4-700
96-91    4-16-1996   7-4-900—
                     7-4-902
                     6-4-14;
                     6-4-19;
                     6-4-41;
                     6-4-42;
                     6-4-64;
96-92    8-20-1996   6-5-15;
                     6-6-11—
                     6-6-14;
                     6-7-18;
                     6-7-19;
                     6-9-2;
                     6-9-9
96-94    11-5-1996   2-8-31
                     9-1-401—
                     9-1-404;
                     9-1- 421;
                     9-1-431—
                     9-1-436;
97-96    10-7-1997   9-1-441—
                     9-1-444;
                     9-1-451—
                     9-1-459;
                     9-1-461—
                     9-1-463
                     9-1-401—
                     9-1-404;
                     9-1-421;
                     9-1-431—
                     9-1-436;
97-97    10-21-1997  9-1-441—
                     9-1-444;
                     9-1-451—
                     9-1-459;
                     9-1-461—
                     9-1-463
                     5-5-1—
                     5-5-3;
98-100   3-17-1998   5-5-11—
                     5-5-24;
                     5-5-31—
                     5-5-33
98-102   6-16-1998   9-1-54.6
                     11-6-1—
98-103   10-6-1998   11-6-4;
                     11-6-7
98-104   10-20-1998  9-1-362—
                     9-1-364
                     9-1-10—
                     9-1-16;
                     9-1-20—
                     9-1-23;
                     9-1-30—
                     9-1-37;
                     9-1-40—
                     9-1-45.26;
                     9-1-50—
                     9-1-54.5;
                     9-1-60—
                     9-1-66;
99-107   2-2-1999    9-1-70—
                     9-1-81;
                     9-1-91—
                     9-1-94.5;
                     9-1-100—
                     9-1-107;
                     9-1-110—
                     9-1-114.3;
                     9-1-114.5—
                     9-1-128;
                     9-1-130—
                     9-1-133;
                     9-1-140—
                     9-1-142
                     2-8-14;
99-113   11-16-1999  2-8-15;
                     2-8-17
                     9-1-71.4;
2000-115 7-5-2000    9-1-72—
                     9-1- 75;
                     9-1-77
                     2-4-6;
                     2-5-2;
2000-116 1-2-2001    2-5-3;
                     2-6.1-1 —
                     2-6.1-3
2001-120 10-16-2001  3-6-1—
                     3-6-10
                     9-1-102;
2002-121 10-15-2002  9-1-103;
                     9-1-106;
                     9-1-107
2002-125 12-3-2002   8-1-1
2002-123 12-17-2002  13-1-76—
                     13-1-83
                     8-1-801;
                     8-1-803—
                     8-1-805;
                     8-1- 807;
                     8-1-810;
                     8-1-811;
                     8-1-816;
                     8-1-817;
                     8-1-820;
2003-128 2-18-2003   8-1-821;
                     8-1-823;
                     8-1-829;
                     8-1-830;
                     8-1-835 
                     8-1-837;
                     8-1-839;
                     8-1-840;
                     8-1-842;
                     8-1-843
2003-130 6-3-2003    2-8-15;
                     2-8-16
2003-131 10-21-2003  6-3-600—
                     6-3-610
2003-132 10-21-2003  5-4-1—
                     5-4-15
2004-134 2-17-2004   9-1-32;
                     9-1-35.8
                     6-9-2;
2004-135 6-1-2004    6-9-3;
                     6-9-12;
                     6- 9-13
2005-139 3-15-2005   13-1-53
                     1-3-1;
                     1-3-2;
2006-142 2-21-2006   1-3-11—
                     1- 3-18;
                     1-3-20—
                     1-3-25
2007-146 5-1-2007    2-2-1
2007-148 9-18-2007   7-4-607
2007-149 10-16-2007  6-6-7
                     9-1-421;
2008-150 1-15-2008   9-1-437;
                     9-1- 443;
                     9-1-451
2009-153 4-7-2009    11-4-21;
                     11-4-26
2009-156 12-15-2009  6-5-40—
                     6-5-45
                     6-3-400—
2010-161 11-16-2010  6-3-407;
                     6-3-409—
                     6-3-410
2010-162 1-4-2011    13-1-101—
                     13-1-107
                     9-1-32;
                     9-1-42;
2011-163 5-3-2011    9-1-52;
                     9-1-133;
                     9-1-142
2012-170 5-15-2012   7-4-606
                     9-1-72;
2012-171 7-17-2012   9-1-73;
                     9-1-74
2013-173 2-19-2013   9-1-37
                     8-1-2—
2013-174 12-3-2013   8-1-5;
                     8-5-1;
                     8- 5-10
2014-176 6-17-2014   13-1-111—
                     13-1-116
2015-178 5-5-2015    9-1-523
                     9-1-32;
                     9-1-42;
                     9-1-52;
2016-184 10-4-2016   9-1-55—
                     9-1-55.4;
                     9-1-133;
                     9-1-142
2017-187 6-6-2017    9-1-32;
                     9-1-142
2017-188 7-18-2017   11-7-31—
                     11-7-36
2018-191 2-20-2018   11-3-700—
                     11-3-703
2018-192 4-3-2018    8-1-1001—
                     8-1-1006
                     9-1-32;
                     9-1-39;
2018-194 6-5-2018    9-1-42;
                     9-1-111;
                     9-1-142
2019-195 1-15-2019   7-4-603
2019-196 3-19-2019   3-6-1—
                     3-6-11
                     9-1-35.3;
                     9-1-42;
2019-197 6-4-2019    9-1-142;
                     9-1-65;
                     9-1-66
2019-198 10-1-2019   2-3-46—
                     2-3-58
                     5-3-197—
2019-199 11-19-2019  5-3-200;
                     6-8-1
2019-202 11-19-2019  11-3-800
2020-203 2-18-2020   2-3-21
                     2-3-48;
                     7-2-12;
2020-204 3-3-2020    7-4- 200—
                     7-4-205;
                     7-4-601
                     5-1-17;
                     5-1-29;
2020-206 7-21-2020   5-7- 1—
                     5-7-11;
                     13-1-19
                     11-14-1;
                     11-14-2;
                     11-14-11;
                     11-14-101—
                     11-14-111;
                     11-14-113—
2020-205 8-4-2020    11-14-115;
                     11-14-117;
                     11-14-119—
                     11-14-122;
                     11-14-124;
                     11-14-200—
                     11-14-202
                     5-1-17;
                     5-1-29;
2020-207 8-4-2020    5-7-1—
                     5-7-11;
                     13-1-19
2020-208 8-18-2020   3-7-1—
                     3-7-6
                     6-3-700—
                     6-3-709;
2021-209 5-4-2021    6-3-711—
                     6-3-713;
                     6-5-46
                     9-1-10;
                     9-1-11;
                     9-1-23;
                     9-1-32;
                     9-1-33.1;
                     9-1-33.3—
                     9-1-33.7;
                     9-1-34;
                     9-1-35.2—
                     9-1-35.6;
                     9-1-35.9—
                     9-1- 35.11;
                     9-1-35.13—
                     9-1-35.18;
                     9-1-35.20;
                     9-1-35.25;
                     9-1-42;
                     9-1-43;
                     9-1-43.3;
                     9-1-44;
                     9-1-45.3;
                     91-45.4;
                     9- 1-45.6—
                     9-1-45.8;
                     9-1-45.10;
                     9-1-45.14;
                     9-1-45.16;
2021-210 8-3-2021    9-1-45.19;
                     9-1-45.21;
                     9-1-45.23;
                     9-1-52;
                     9-1-54.5;
                     9-1- 54.7;
                     9-1-61;
                     9-1-63—
                     9-1-66;
                     9-1-81;
                     9-1-110;
                     9-1-111;
                     9-1-112—
                     9-1-112.2;
                     9-1-113.2;
                     9-1-113.3;
                     9-1- 113.5;
                     9-1-113.7;
                     9-1-113.8;
                     9-1-113.10;
                     9-1-114.1;
                     9-1-114.2;
                     9-1-114.9;
                     9-1-117.1—
                     9-1-117.3;
                     9-1-118;
                     9-1-119;
                     9-1-142
2021-211 8-3-2021    9-1-35.3;
                     9-1-142
                     2-3-3;
2022-213 4-5-2022    2-4-7—
                     2-4-12
2022-212 4-19-2022   2-3-21—
                     2-3-23
                     7-4-102;
2022-214 5-17-2022   7-4-603;
                     7-4-608
                     5-1-3;
                     5-1-7;
                     5-1-7;
                     5-1-29;
                     5-2-1;
                     10-1-1;
                     10-1-2;
                     10-1-4;
                     10-1-5;
                     10-1-7;
                     10-1-8;
                     10-1-10;
                     10-1-12;
                     10-1-13;
                     10-1-15;
                     10-1-17;
                     10-1-18;
                     10-1-20;
                     10-1-21;
                     10-1-23;
                     10-1-28 
                     10-1-40;
                     10-1-45—
                     10-1-55;
                     10-1-60—
2022-215 6-7-2022    10-1- 64;
                     10-1-70—
                     10-1-76;
                     10-1-85;
                     10-1-94;
                     10-1-95;
                     10-1-105—
                     10-1-112;
                     10-1-127—
                     10-1-131;
                     10-1-143;
                     10-1-155—
                     10-1-158;
                     10-1-164—
                     10-1-168;
                     10-1-174—
                     10-1-180;
                     10-2-1—
                     10-2-12;
                     10-2-20—
                     10-2-28;
                     10-2- 30—
                     10-2-40;
                     10-3-1;
                     10-3-2;
                     10-3-5 —10-3-10-3-17
                     9-1-41.6;
                     9-1-42;
2022-216 7-19-2022   9-1-43.1;
                     9-1-45.3;
                     9-1-142
2022-218 8-2-2022    7-1-140—
                     7-1-142
2023-219 4-4-2023    2-8-35—
                     2-8-42
                     2-3-21;
2023-221 4-18-2023   2-3-25;
                     2-3-26
2023-223 6-20-2023   9-1-35.26;
                     9-1-142
                     6-3-608;
2023-224 9-5-2023    6-3-609;
                     6-3-703;
                     6-3-800
2023-225 12-5-2023   9-1-95
2023-226 1-16-2024   2-9-1
2024-227 3-5-2024    7-4-500.1;
                     7-4-501.1
                     8-1-1007—
                     8-1-1012;
                     9-1-32;
                     9-1-35.28;
                     9-1-37;
2024-228 5-21-2024   9-1-38;
                     9-1-42;
                     9-1-45.27;
                     9-1-45.28;
                     9-1-55.5;
                     9-1-67;
                     9-1- 142
                     9-1-71.1;
2024-229 5-21-2024   9-1-74;
                     9-1-77
2024-230 10-15-2024  11-8-60—
                     11-8-64
2024-232 1-21-2025   9-1-35.26;
                     9-1-142
2025-234 3-4-2025    2-3-28—
                     2-3-34
2025-235 6-3-2025    11-3-800
                     5-3-260—
2025-236 10-21-2025  5-3-264;
                     5-3-301—
                     5-3-305
                     8-2-12—
                     8-1-15;
                     8-1-17—
                     8-1-19; 8-1-21;
                     8-1-200;
                     8-1-900—
                     8-1-904;
2025-237 12-2-2025   8-1-1000;
                     8-1-1000.1;
                     8-1-1301;
                     8-1-1401;
                     8-2-1;
                     8-3-1;
                     8-3-25;
                     8-5-1;
                     8-7-1
2025-238 12-2-2025   11-3-1;
                     11-3-2
2025-239 2-17-2026   9-1-35.26
                    
 
 
